ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u1	Start the session. She has justified the in attendance of Mrs Magdalena Barahona Martín. Before entering the agenda, I beg you to keep a minute of silence in repulsing against the case of maleistic violence of the Porriño. [[The members of the House and the Bureau of Parliament, as well as the invited audience, keep a minute's silence in repulsing against the case of violence against the Porriño.]] Thank you very much. We are now on the agenda. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega? What do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr. Leicega's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u2	In accordance with Article 77.2. I'd like you to read us the report of what you have regulated in the past to prevent the use of certain expressions in this plenary. The July 4 report you showed us at that time. I already tell you that we in this full will use expressions like "PP has been convicted civilly for corruption as a profit-sharing." Therefore, it would be nice to know that report before we begin the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u3	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Well, as you'll understand... I explained, I think at the Speaker's Board, that's it. I explained that the president, in the use of his powers to preside over a plenary, asks for advice. I asked for advice from the senior lawyer, the senior counsel passed me an information, and that information was the one that gave rise to the report that moved all of you and the press. That's the information I gave. I have no inconvenience, either, that all spokespersons, individually, feel with me in the office and see the report, or see the information. Why? What's the matter? The information is public, everything has circulated publicly. Yes! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have no problem with that being seen in my... because I believe that as president I have the right to ask for information — as they ask — for what is a parliamentary debate. For this parliamentary debate, it is not an information for Parliament's permanent management of the debates. It was an information for a parliamentary debate in which I advised myself. Information as you often ask in the Legal Services, lawfully, and no one puts, in that sense, a problem. So this information has already been transferred to the Speaker's Board and I think it's a pretty clear information and I think you all have that information. So in that sense, I have nothing else to say. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón? Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u4	Mr President, we, in fact, believe that we have made it quite clear today that we do not accept any bites in this parliament. And I'm a little surprised by your intervention in this plenary. As we speak at the Speaker's Board, our group will not sit with anyone to numb the freedom of expression or, of course, to refrain from what we can say or not in this plenary. I also understand that if what you have transferred to us is not a report and there is another report that we have to read, it is introducing — I believe — more elements of confusion, which, of course, I think are very worrying, because if something we have to safeguard is the right to freely express ourselves in this parliament. [[Applause]] And also, in that sense — if I may, Mr President — since the report goes on to say that a civil sentence is also a conviction, what I would ask you to call the order you made last session when I — on behalf of my group — said that the People's Party was a party condemned for corruption. I tell you, you can end this plenary by driving us out all the Members and Members of this House — at least those of our group — to say that the PP is a party condemned for corruption. I don't know if that's the way you and the People's Party in Galicia understand democratic regeneration and freedom of expression. I think it would be best if I were to withdraw that report, withdraw that clarification note, apologize to us, and that, of course, this is the end point of the attempt to numb the Galician Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u5	Yes, Mr. Villares? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u6	Mr President, to complement the previous explanations of my fellow opposition speakers. We believe that you should comply firmly with the mandate of your office and therefore also comply with the Rules of Procedure at that point. Then, just as we expressed at the Vocier Group on the other day, in the same way that another spokesperson from another parliamentary group — or the president of the board, in this case — can use expressions that he says are colloquial on the street, even if they are not technically correct — as to say that there is incendiary terrorism, when the Galician Attorney General himself said there was no terrorism for any reason, we do not know why we should have a different treatment when we talk about that the People's Party is condemned for corruption when it is a social state of opinion also derived from a sentence, which very precisely — as Mr. Leicega said — was convicted civilly in a criminal proceedings, on a lucrative basis, in a case of corruption; therefore, we can also make use of that expression. In any case, we have warned you since the political group in En Marea that we are going to make use of that expression so that you can understand perfectly what we mean when we talk about an attitude towards life and politics, which is what the People's Party has been keeping over these years. And a final consideration, Mr. President, Núñez Feijóo's successor campaign has ended, so it's not necessary for you to turn the House into a TV set to make the casting of a candidate better than he will no longer compete with Genoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u7	Thank you. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u8	To participate in this debate that you have agreed, we understand that without much logic. [[Murmurs.]] We know the report of the House's Juridical Services, which says something as elementary as there's absolute freedom of expression here, and what you can't miss is the honour of an MP, a group or a person who isn't present. We therefore support the report of the House's Juridical Services. We hope that — as has happened in the past — we will continue to maintain parliamentary forms and that those who say that others turn this into a television set will look back, think carefully what they have and think if offensive language serves them politically for something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u9	I think this is a debate. No, Mr. Villares, I think... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I think the information was clear. And I think I made myself clear too. No, if they don't let me talk here anymore... [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm saying I don't think I apply it bites. I believe that if I had applied the bite, I would have sent back what could not be said... here in Parliament you can say everything, of course within the regulatory framework of Parliament. That would indeed be mortaza if I had sent out what I had transferred the major letter to myself. But don't hesitate, because it seems they're also questioning the report issued by the senior officer. Well, please don't doubt that. [[Murmurs.]] Please, don't doubt that! [[Murmurs.]] And the information you received reproduces, and there's the major lawyer, who won't correct me, exactly what he sent me. And they know very well what you can say and what you can't say. No, sorry! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay. Mr. Leicega once explained it well and said it correctly. So, this is what I think you're... [[Murmurs.]] Let's start full. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of En Marea, for the amendment of Law 2/2015 of 29 April of the Public Employment of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u10	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs Quinteiro has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u11	Good morning. Thank you, President. We too must begin — in view of what happened at the last plenary session — by recalling that we will not be allowed to speak truths in this parliament. The president did not act neutrally in the full past, of course, we hope that if we let ourselves speak today. Because, as much as bothers them, as much as they try to hide it, we will continue to mark their structural corruption. [[Murmurs.]] Because, of course, they try to censor us in Parliament and also try to censor public television. [[Murmurs.]] Clearly, the People's Party is a party condemned for corruption. They are not offensive comments, they are not comments that are likely to be called to order because they are correct comments. What happens is that they're very uncomfortable to listen, but we're talking about a judgment that's public. And we're not making up, not lying, not slandering. [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter is that they're upset that the whole citizenship every day is made more clear that the People's Party is a corrupt party... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u12	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u13	...that corruption is structural, that are not isolated cases. Because we're talking about Gürtel, but we could add a lot of cases: Pokémon, the Champion case, and we could be here a good piece by mentioning them all. It's their way of working systematically, it became very clear to us, and that's why we understand that we can say it freely, it's a public sentence. We hope that if we can speak freely today. As I said, we are not censured for no reason. [[Murmurs.]] And, Mr President, we do not doubt the reports, especially the interpretation of them. And we demand again that the calls be removed from the order of the full past, because they are totally intolerable. And I'm already going to the bill that we're dealing with today, the first thing I have to say is that today I came to this debate with a certain joy, because it's a feminist proposal, it's a proposal that comes out of the feminist collectives themselves. But reality brings us back to understand the harsh situation that we women live in. We must begin by lamenting this new macho murder in the Porriño, with which we have just made a minute's silence. And they remember us and we want to move all our solidarity with our family and friends. And also remember that feminism will answer, feminism will go out on the street too to insist that it is enough!, that they will not continue to murder us. This bill, as I say, is a feminist proposal that we expect the process to pass. But, in fact, we have doubts, we don't know if it will, because seeing the precedents of so many other debates in this same parliament and also in other chambers, the People's Party often adopts an attitude of refusing to listen to demands that are expressed in a massive way in the streets. And we say this because this proposal is exactly the same as the historical events that took place this 8 March. And in that sense, I also want to take advantage of my intervention to welcome the immense work of all feminist groups, but especially the work done by PPIINA, because actually thanks to this work we are now debating this proposal. And I also want to remember all those women who have been rebellious for many years, who have taught us that if we don't fight ourselves for our rights, no one will. And one last reminder, starting with this feminist proposal, is for the Argentine women, who have given us a lesson recently demonstrating that mobilization serves, that rights are achieved and that they have defended their right to abort freely. We said it many times, on March 8th and March I put a point of inflexion, feminism strongly signalled the inequalities that continue to exist in our society, broke up with the false myth that we live in equality and placed in the center of the agenda, too, many of the demands that women have been demanding time by wanting to put in the agenda and that they were systematically silenced. But it is true that he marked a point of inflection, because the whole of society, not only a small group of women, but the whole of society, was questioned and began to question the relationships of power. And we have an obligation to take note of that lesson and change and make a more equitable relationship. As I said, many of the women's demands have been silenced for many years, but we have already made it very clear on March 8 that we will not continue to wait, we want progress to be made already, that the current model will be changed, and we don't want to be systematically mortgaged on women's rights to a uncertain future, there's always something more important, we always have to wait. But we're tired because we're talking about rights, and as we speak about rights, there are no possible debates or nuances. As I said, macho inequalities affect us in the whole of our lives, in all areas of our lives, and today we are talking specifically about an area related to care and the role that has historically been given to women as responsible for care, specifically for children and maternity. We believe that our proposal would help to move forward on the horizon of democratization and redistribution of care; of course, other measures must be accompanied, but we believe that this would make us progress much as far as child care is concerned. We believe that all proposals relating to the reorganization and democratization of care should be based on the same basis, which is very simple: we want the caretakers to stop having a woman's name, to value themselves once and for all social and also economically and at the heart of public policies. And we want care to be at the heart of public policies, because what we're talking about, when we talk about care, is nothing more or nothing less than life itself, the support of life itself. What happens is that despite being one of the fundamental axes of our lives, unfortunately it's been too many years since it's been invisible, it's been too many years being hidden, and always, always, dwelling on them. We don't want the care crisis to be solved with more free effort than ever before, in a silent manner. We believe that this care crisis opens up an opportunity, opens up an opportunity that can be positively closed, reorganizing and redistributing care in a more democratic way, or can also be closed in a more negative way, as I say, by making these care more mostly fit women and free of charge. We have a dichotomy right now to solve how we want care to be taken, to think about how to reorganize this invisible work that has been underestimated and undervalued for many years. But unfortunately, even in the legislation itself, it sometimes perpetuates inequalities and today it's what we've been talking about. The current legislation on permits on the basis of reconciliation of personal, family and labour life related to birth, adoption and reception is very unfair. That's why we bet it's changed, because it doesn't make any sense that regulation itself is unfair. We want paternity and maternity permits to be equal, unforeseeable, paid to 100 per cent, of course within the framework of our competences as autonomy in the field of employees and public employees. Besides, we think it's the right time to do it, because there's a much broader social consensus than in other moments of ending this structural inequality, and we understand it's the right time, just because of that. This is a proposal that is very important in the material, of course, because it would help to end discrimination for our kind, it would help mothers and parents — regardless of their gender, but also their family model — have the same rights. We also want to place the rights of children at the centre, and in addition to being important in the material, we believe that it is also very important in the symbolic, because we believe that this measure — driven from the Galician Union — can allow it to be a drag factor for other labour sectors, which, as we know, outside the labour market, in addition to the discrimination we take care of ourselves, also has implications for the wage divide, and we know that maternity continues to penalize us in the labour market. It's not unusual for us to be asked in an interview if we're going to be mothers, the difference, of course, from men. That's why we say that this proposal is also of such importance in the symbolic, because it would help to mark a new trend, a new cultural model. We believe that if care is distributed from birth, it's easier than later than later. We do not deny, of course, that some progress has been made in recent years compared, above all, with other parts of the Spanish State, but we believe that these advances are insufficient. And in addition to some of the measures recently adopted, the extension of permits, they do not reduce, but they do increase, the gap between time for parents and mothers, and we believe that we also need to reflect on this, that the model we implement has to go gradually to match the times of mothers and fathers. This, of course, does not mean taking time from maternity leave, but is gradually increasing the parental leave. The data gives a good X-ray, and I recommend that you see the data coming from the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021 of the Galician Union, which there some of the data you collect are very alarming. For example, in 2016 91.65 % of the care surpluses of small children and children were taken by women. This gives very good notice of who is taking care of, but, of course — if the legislation itself, the regulation itself induces us from the very beginning to what we take care of — this data should not surprise us; in fact, how would it be otherwise? And it's obvious that the option of opting for the shared permission still doesn't work. In 2017 only 2% applied for this modality, but in addition, with this right we are in a completely exceptional situation. Rights are not transferable, they are not shared, they are of all people, all of them. What other rights can be transferred? And as if we were to imagine that, for example, we could transfer the right to vacation, surely everyone would think of it as an absurd matter. So why are we faced with this exception only in this specific case? We bet because rights are individualized, it's a very logical question — we believe — we don't understand or share the current situation. We think we need a complete change. As I say, today we are focusing on parental and maternity leave, but obviously we need a complete change in public policies where care is at the centre, and that means a fundamental change in many issues. Of course, in public services, of course in permits, but also in the cultural model, in the image that is often spread out of a family, we have to keep moving forward in that direction. And we believe that this measure must be taken now. First the pretext of the economic crisis was used to cut women's rights, now if it is not approved, if this equation is not made, what's the reason? There is no reason for us to continue to perpetuate inequalities from a regulation. Actually, it's a barbarity that happens today, but as we understand that often the argument is budget limitation, we also look at this and we propose a progressive and gradual change; we propose not one change from day to day, but that the equation be gradual until 2022. We start from the maintenance of the current permission of twenty-week mothers, because obviously we don't want to reduce in any case the rights attained by women, and progressively it will incorporate the permission of the other parent, as I said, until 2022, and it will be this year when it is intransferable; we want it to be inaccessible for both people to carry out care. As I say, there is a progressive sequence, in 2019 the other person would be told with a suspension of eleven weeks, in 2020 a total of fourteen weeks, in 2021 a total of seventeen weeks, and from the year 2022 would already be twenty weeks and would be fully enforceable to this law. Of course, this does not remove — and in fact we gather it in an additional provision — that permits should also reflect, when this is achieved, on increasing them for mothers and parents, because we see these measures in other countries around us if they involve effective conciliation measures. We see, therefore, that this is a completely reasonable proposal, including from its own economic criteria, and we must accept it because conciliation cannot be a luxury as it has so far been. It's a right and it has to be possible to reconcile for all people. We often see how in speeches, in plans that are drawn up — even in some legislation, in legislation for example of equality — the principles for equality and for real co-responsible conciliation are set out in a systematic way, but then, in practice, no action is taken to achieve it. We understand that, in addition, this proposal could be assumed, because the spokesperson of the People's Party, Pedro Puy, after March 8, called for this opposition proposal, said that it could be and could serve us to advance towards equality. It's true that he didn't, but he did say that, and he also dropped that the Welsh Executive would study the option of equalizing parents' and mothers' descendants in order to promote equality. But if we go down to the concrete, the conciliation plan only envisages this option until the first seven weeks, which for us is totally insufficient. As I said, we believe this is an opportunity for the Junta to be an example, for Galicia to be on the vanguard at the state level, but that's why we understand that the People's Party has to move from word to deed. And I'm going to finish, because I'm done with time, remembering that feminism has come to stay and the women have shown that if we stop, for the world; more than half of the population cannot remain suffering constant inequalities. And we go back to putting more public feminist policies into action; we need it, because, as we see, today, unfortunately, they're going to live in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. I, Mrs. Quinteiro, would like you to read the report I sent you -- no, if I shall not say anything -- that I sent you to the Speaker's Board, and so perhaps you could see that there is some inaccuracy in what you said. No more. You have the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u15	Good morning to all and to all. Today, of course, is a sad day for our country, because in the face of a masculine murder in our community we can only see a collective failure. I must also regret — before giving initiative to our position on this equality law — once again, the absence of government in its debate and regret that Mr. Núñez Feijóo had only come to the picture. That's how we're going to make a bad move towards women's equality in this society. [[Applause]] As an initial reflection I would like to remind you that the proposal we are discussing today in this Chamber also puts the emphasis on an issue which is very important for the Galician Nationalist Block to remember — and it is of absolute relevance when we talk about equality in the field of work — that is the negative impact that our country has on the lack of self-government and political sovereignty in this achievement of equality. Today In Marea brings a proposal that seems interesting to us, that we will vote favourably and that is essentially a reference for public employees and employees. We would like us to go ahead and be able to reflect on and debate about this, but we must not fail to make the initial reflection that — precisely because of the lack of political sovereignty and because the Spanish State is the one who is involved in most of the skills of work— there is a very important part in terms of workers and workers who are stealing from us, in some way, our possibilities for progress in equality, which is added to a government that is always dedicated to making the delegate of the government and to dynamising collective bargaining. This has therefore caught — we think — the progress we could have made as a country in recent years when we have been vanguarded in other policies related to equality. To this too, what has happened in recent years, we have to add a series of cuts in the financing of equality policies, both in the state and in the Galician Union itself, also an important cut in public services, which has had a more negative impact on women, also on women who are civil servants, and who have been sponsored by Mr Feijóo as the central government delegate. Thus, we saw as in the last decade, instead of moving collectively, while Mr. Rajoy and the People's Party governments were dedicated to weaving this real and effective system of institutional corruption through manipulation mechanisms for central, autonomous and local public procurement, through their close and continuing relationship with the influential militants of the People's Party, if there were resources for the People's Party's Box B, but there were no resources for the Equality Box A. So you might have put a little more intelligence to finance equality and a little less effort to fund yourself, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Perhaps, therefore, during these years, there would have been sufficient resources to ensure that, in fact, these maternity leave were approved in the public domain for maternity and paternity, for example. But we see that the priorities were different. Also in a context where we must remember that this great central state that is dedicated to rescuing the public bank because it was also dedicated to imposing the payment of debt on its own communities, so that Galicia had less resources to provide social goods and benefits to its workers. And in that diatrics, we are women and equality all the time. It must also be said that we would like this proposal to be approved and that we could move forward in designing a more ambitious framework from Galicia, because the truth of what the Spanish State provides for the workers and workers as a whole and for the State officials because it is quite limited. In addition, in this proposal, we think that it has a very important virtuality, which is that everything we can move forward, even though it seems limited to us to be able to move forward only in the field of our country's public servants and employees, everything we can move forward on that line, because undoubtedly it has a very important irradiating focus, and it would open the doors that then also in the field of legislation if they could provide changes for all and all in that line, and it would also have an important irradiating capacity — we think — for collective bargaining, so that in their companies workers could bring the example of the Administration, which should be modelled, so as to negotiate collectively more and better rights. We, from the Galician Nationalist Block, have made it clear that in order to advance in a real co-responsibility it is essential to follow three strategic lines, which have so far not been sufficiently assumed either in the legal framework or in practice by the party condemned for corruption. The first would be to seek the full equalization of permits — it's a key issue — to seek their individualization, therefore, because the rights are actually individual of these people, and therefore it would be necessary to consolidate their intransferability. We understand that the proposal by En Marea picks up this spirit and, therefore, we will vote in favour, and we would like to open a presentation so that improvements can be made. For example, as far as the calendar of intransferability is concerned, we would like to have another proposal for him to be walking as long as it is an untransferable reality without waiting for his achievement in 2022, and that's why we're going to vote in favour. But I also want to take advantage of this turn of intervention to transfer some further reflection. I want to remember that what we know as a paternity license is something very recent, of very recent creation, and no longer entering that, out of the public domain, which is a little bit more extensive, is something almost more anecdotal than real by its short amplitude, because we also have to assess that it is not only recent, but it did not have the social change that could be expected at the moment and that, therefore, it did not serve to advance in a qualitative and important way in the field of men corresponding to the tasks of care. So we started that we need faster and faster steps. That's also a fundamental mandate this March 8th. And that's why, if we really want a social transformation that advances in having increasingly depatriated family models, logically, from legislation itself and above all from the public sphere, by its irradiating factor, we would have to add more questions in this regard. To this too I would like to stress once again the failure of the People's Party's Government to comply with its own legislation. You've been out here too, in recent debates, the situation of the workers of the Consortium, we've seen a few weeks ago Sergas too, and that leads us to the reflection that equality plans are often a theory but not a practice. Because there are equality plans, there is even in Mr Baltar's MP, who, of course, in the system that effective corruption is certain that he knows a lot, but of equality, I dare say that quite little, and of women, too. [[Applause]] We must also point out another reflection that we would like to leave for the debate, which is that today we are checking a gender gap in the exercise of these rights. That means that the framework is not enough, it's not transforming society. In 2017 alone, 13,592 women, compared to only 293 men, welcomed this use of maternity benefits. And besides, evolution over time because it demonstrates a picture picture of an invariable nature, from the point of view that those who perceive these types of discharges and benefits are mostly women, and the percentages of use remain virtually unchanged depending on sex over these years. Precisely the conclusion we have to draw is that policies were not courageous and did not contribute to transforming society as quickly as we need it. The same is true of child care surpluses, almost 92 percent occupied by women in the last year with data, compared to a ridiculous percentage of men. And that no longer goes into excess care of other situations. We therefore believe that, in the face of this situation and in the face of both qualitative and quantitative data, what is urgent is a change in the philosophy of application of these improvements, and for that the simple extension of paternity as it is proposed — as it has already been said — in that plan of co-responsibility, going from five to seven weeks, because it is absolutely insufficient. What needs to be done is equal equality and intransferability so that we can be seen equal to women and men in the field of public service for promotion and in other areas where this example can also contribute to recruitment and other, because only if we are seen as equal and if we see the risk of motherhood and paternity equal, we can avoid this kind of bias in terms of job promotion. Besides, after March 8, we heard voices affected by the People's Party that said they were going to take note, that they were going to make changes and so on, and what we saw was a more unconcrete plan. And besides, it's not the first time we've seen this policy of many headlines and little to do. I'll bring here to read number 42 of the Journal of Sessions, October 4, 2017, debate of the nation's state, and Mr. Feijóo said that for this year 2018 -- we're still waiting -- "public employees will have at their disposal a new measure of conciliation, a maternity leave increased to twenty-two weeks"; twenty-two weeks, and then we saw in that accompanying law that were twenty-two and not twenty-two. Finally, once again, that policy of headlines in the face of urgency, thinking that the storm will happen, but of course, from feminism we have stormed for the mouse, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of this proposal today, because we understand that it would be a good starting point for us to sit down and that less minutes of silence and more real politics are needed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Say the suggestion was made. I've already made the suggestion. So, I beg you, in that sense, if you read it, you can check it. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u17	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. There's a sentence by George Orwell that says, "If anything means freedom of expression, it's the right to tell people what they don't want to hear." And the Socialist Party is clear that, in the exercise of that freedom, to express that the People's Party has been convicted civilly for corruption, as a partaker in a lucrative way, that is to say what we don't want to hear, and that, in my view, it only has one way out: to shut up loud ears, because neither this Member nor any of my colleagues and group partners are going to cease to exercise a fundamental right like that of freedom of expression, which is fundamental in any area, but still more in a place like this, where ideas are debated and rights and duties are built. [[Applause]] And, speaking of rights, I have to admit that, when I got to prepare this intervention, the first thing that came to my mind was how it was possible that at these times, in the current times, of social progress, of all kinds, we still have to pose the defense of a bill that in our view is obvious, by the clear and obvious manner. And then I remembered that many times, when one speaks some matter of his competition, he believes that everyone understands it perfectly, and, after a mouse, he realizes that no, what one considers obvious to those who don't hear is not always so much, because they don't dominate language, terms, or concepts. And in part, this is what has happened to this day with the conciliation, in which what exists is a huge distance of vision between men and women, between stakeholders and stakeholders, between a masquerading world and one that by necessity becomes feminist, a world that has been interested in preventing obesities from being realities. But also that distance is the one that they have marked those who and those who rule have not or intend to listen to. After the March 8 demonstrations this year, in a full question to this government, I myself asked to listen with respect and attention to all the women of Greece. Today, the Socialist Party asks this government exactly the same thing: to amplify its active listening, too often in stand bay, and commit to this bill or, at least, to its debate. Because until now the Government has presented a plan of reconciliation and co-responsibility in which it proposes the progressive equalization of maternity and paternity permits in an untransferable way, increasing the paternity permit from five to seven weeks, but in which nothing is spoken of the deadlines for this progressive equalization of permits and little or almost no other questions. It's time to address this historical debt to women, to set deadlines, and this bill is a good starting point that we will undoubtedly support, because we know the importance of taking steps that avoid inequalities and especially that most cruel manifestation as is gender violence, which yesterday even struck us so closely with the murder of a woman in Porriño; all our affection and affection for her relatives and friends. And it is from the Socialist Group that we believe that the struggle for women's effective equality is undoubtedly about equal access to the world of work. And at that point, maternity is the point that turns all prejudices and reluctance against women in choosing a job. Disabling these biases to recruitment is something as simple as leaving that clear difference between the casualties enjoyed by a woman or man by the birth of a child or daughter, as well as the adoption of a child or child. At the Congress of Deputies the Socialist Party has already put forward a bill in March of this year, the Labour Equality Act, a law which, yesterday, our president of the State Government, Mr. Sánchez, declared in his first interview as a priority and with a clear commitment to the women and men who went out to the streets on 8 March. Yesterday, therefore, it was given the circumstance that our two presidents, the state president and the autonomic, committed themselves, one with a smile to announce that commitment is to the Labour Equality Act and, therefore, to the women and men of this country, and the other with tears and sadness for committing himself to the Greeks, forgetting, by all means, the Greeks in their words. [[Applause]] We also miss it in this debate of the bill—and we feel that today only came to take the picture; curious exercise of commitment—a text of the law in which the reduction of permission by birth to six mandatory weeks after birth, intended for the recovery of mother's health, and a birth permit for the other parent of six mandatory weeks is introduced. [[Applause]] Even so, in that law, an equal and untransferable parental permission is recognized for the care of the under twelve months, of ten weeks of duration for each parent. And those measures, which add up to the forty-nine proposed laws in that Congress, were the roadmap that the Socialist Party marked in March and is vetoed by the popular government, which undoubtedly shows, on the one hand, the firm commitment of the socialism of the current state government to conciliation, co-responsibility and equal work between women and men and, on the other, the true B face of the People's Party, unable to prioritize women. A model, which is proposed in the Law of Labour Equality for the State, which we want for all the Greeks and the Greeks, and which will undoubtedly come if all the parties join us, and even improve the terms in which it is proposed. And then I think again about the obviousness of this law; it is obvious that it will cause its ultimate arrival, because having a socialist and feminist party in the Government of the State, having equality as one of the axes of the political agenda, will be the trigger for the implementation of measures that favour conciliation, co-responsibility and equal access to work for women and men. But parental and maternal permits are only one of the necessary measures, because there are many obstacles that prevent men from naturally incorporating in this case the task of family reconciliation. In 2016, in the field of the Spanish State, some 206,000 mothers resorted to maternity benefits, compared to only 4,300 parents; i.e., 98% of the benefits were applied for by women. And if we go to the data from the area of Galicia, the data is more than revealing and the conclusions are clear. On the one hand, family and care responsibilities are for them. And, on the other hand, women's inactivity to have other family or personal responsibilities, for the care of children or children or of adults who are sick, disabled or older, is far from male for these same reasons. The reality is that companies see mothers as high-risk workers only because of their status as women, beyond whether they are or will be at some point in their mother's life. Different views have of the parents, whose lows or surpluses are much more acute, which makes workers much more interesting from the point of view of companies' profitability. This is a sad reality: being a parent is a value added. And I refer to the words of Ángeles Álvarez, the voice of equality by the Socialist Party at the Congress of Deputies, "Since the Socialist Group we have always had a clear vocation for recognizing a mother's autonomous paternity permit, by the hand of the Equality Law put in place by the Government of José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero." We speak of a right for mothers and parents who become an instrument to promote equality and which contributes to a change towards less sexist behaviors. We are all aware that a permit that is equal, makes justice; and that is intransferable, makes it a strategic part of equality policies. It can't be that only 1.8 percent of male progenitors take on one of the five weeks of transferable maternity. This evidence shows that transferability is not useful to equality, and evidence shows that volunteering doesn't work because it's not linked to corporate and social pressures; and one thing and the other they play against women and equality. Our model therefore coincides with the general spirit of today's proposed law, and, while finding some point of discrepancy, we think that the most important thing for the Greeks and the Greeks is, without a doubt, the proposed calendar. I repeat, I don't know if with this text that is exposed here or another, but, in any case, it could be debated, which would already be an important step forward. And we, the spokespersons of equality, all of us know what we talk about, because we know what we hear in the Commission's appearances and we know what we think, publicly or in intimacy, and not being with such measures is to fail ourselves. No one will decide for us. So let's listen to the Greek women with respect and attention, but also with commitment. That commitment that Mr. Feijóo made yesterday repeatedly expressed with the Greeks, without naming the Galicians at any time will tell some that it was obvious, but, especially in the fight for equality, which is not concrete or visible, and the Greek women have been hidden in Mr. Feijóo's coffin for too long. [[Applause]] Listen to how women ask, and open the door to this law. With it they will allow equality to finally enter the homes of many and many Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u19	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I also want, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to regret the murder that Galicia struck this last day; and to say that we all have to keep working to fight against gender violence. Only unity in the work of equality policies will make it possible for us to achieve achievements, because only among all of us can we defend equality and combat these macho attacks against all women, be in this case a deadly victim, like every day anywhere, violence, micromachisms and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the tides of Podemos have chosen the best Member of your group to give us lessons in ethics and behaviour. It is only funny that we are being taught by the honourable Member who has been rejected by 85% of his or her membership. [[Applause]] That means 85% of membership... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u20	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u21	Don't put the bite on me, listen. Don't bite me! [[Applause]] Listen! Listen, listen, listen... Listen, listen, I heard Mrs. Quinteiro speak in her first intervention! He once spoke of some things and some other time. Well, I'm going to spend some time with Mrs. Quinteiro too. And in that time of freedom of expression that we have all the Members and Members of this House, I mean that Mrs Quinteiro, rejected by 85% of her membership, which shows that 85% of her membership... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u22	Mr. Lake, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u23	I'm talking about a Member who is in the debate, if not, you defend your group here. Let them talk to you. Maybe he's got a bite, I don't know. I, if you let me talk and you don't put the bite of the insult... yes, the subject that Mrs. Quinteiro spoke about. I'm going to answer Mrs. Quinteiro's question about what she's been talking about. And as she came to talk about ethics and behavior, because I'm going to explain to her what ethics and behavior are for us. And his group told him, too, his affiliation told him. 85% of En Marea's affiliation told him he didn't like his behavior. 85% of the membership is against most of the En Tide Group that supports Mrs. Quinteiro's behavior. And your spokesman is also against Mrs. Quinteiro's behavior and told her to leave, but she doesn't go and Mr. Villares doesn't go either. This is your democracy! [[Applause]] I'm very sorry that you come here to talk about certain facts, other things, and when you have a police statement that is not made by the repressive police of the state, but by the police that sends democratic mayor Martiño Noriega, you question a police statement that says a deputy... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u24	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u25	He used his deputy status to... to... to... to prevent the identification of gentlemen who, freely and peacefully, broke mirrors in the streets of Compostela. Those are the right facts. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo, from her seat, utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We're waiting for the interrogation Mrs. Quinteiro told the police she was going to put on. That night he told them he was going to put in an interrogation for his behavior. [[Laughter]] We wait for the record of this inquiry, and we wait... we wait... for Mrs. Quinteiro's intervention in that inquiry. [[Protests.]] Mrs. Presas also gave us lessons on where the money is coming from. Home, Mrs. Presas!, you ruled in Galicia, and you know what money Mr. Quintana spent on? At parties in Silleda, to take pictures surrounded by women. That money you paid... yes, then you were on the block, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then it happened... well, those circuits that you have, of confluences and spaces. He's in another room now, but then you were in Mr. Quintana's room. [[Applause]] For in that block space where Mr. Quintana spent his equal money on parties and other things, and not on paternity permits, these days of paternity permits financed you when they ruled Galicia. Zero, gentlemen, zero, so lessons, none. Then his accused councilman, Mr. Blanco, also didn't think about paternity permits, he also thought about how to spend the money — or how to put the money, better — in the champagne bottles in his wine cellar. Do you remember, Mrs. Presas? Remember? [[Laughter]] Mrs. Pierres also wanted to teach us lessons. The Socialist Party, which has the two former general secretaries of Galicia charged with corruption; which has the two former presidents of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party sitting on the bench of the accused for a matter of more than 800 million euros stolen from the unemployed, no less than the unemployed!, they intend to teach us lessons! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I feel they don't like it, but, of course, I have to answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u26	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u27	They don't like to hear the truth. They don't like to hear the truth. They don't like to hear the truth... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u28	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u29	What's wrong? Don't you like to hear the truth?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u30	Quiet. Silence, Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u31	They don't like to hear the truth. Your companions, Abel, your companions. I feel like they want to put on a bite and they don't want to listen to the truth. But if we get into the question... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u32	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please! Quiet. Quiet, please! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u33	Yes, yes, your comrades at Santiago Town Hall.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u34	I ask you, please, to respect whoever is in the use of the word. Sorry! [[Mr Prado del Río: Thank you, Mr President.]] And if you then consider that there have been inaccuracies, you can always... but now you respect who is in the use of the word. Silence! If not, we'll suspend the full momentarily, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u35	I feel they don't want to hear that there are people accused of stealing. There are defendants... I'm so sorry they don't like to listen... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u36	Mr. Losada. Mr. Losada, be quiet! If not, I have to call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u37	They don't like to hear the truth, but the truth is there. Mrs. Noa Presas also lied to this gallery. He came to say he didn't be in Galicia two weeks ago. Yes, Mrs. Presas, yes. You should also read, in addition to the law, the instructions that come out to Junta, because, in addition to the 20 weeks of delivery, two weeks ago paid for preparation. You know that, but you came to this rostrum to lie. Of course, in Galicia there are twenty-two weeks of paid leave for women! And you came to this rostrum to lie, to lie! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I ask them to move from words to deeds. This Parliamentary Group, in its March plenary session, presented a transaction to set in motion the equivalence of parental and maternity leave, and you did not accept that transaction. So don't come and say that the People's Party disagrees. Of course you agree! That same initiative I defended in this gallery, and you can't miss the truth because it's in the Journal of Sessions. And when the People's Parliamentary Group has argued that, in fact, the equalization of parental and maternity leave is one of the greatest contributions that can be made to equality, because it is the way in which men are introduced into domestic care, that men take part in family care tasks, the tasks of home care. That, indeed, is the greatest of the equality quotas we can achieve. But you didn't allow that agreement to be approved, and now you come here to tell us what? When this parliamentary group, in December, brought a law that increased the paternity permit for a week and you criticized that law, voted against that law, and they didn't even have a word of recognition because Galicia is one of the autonomous communities where paternity permit is the most common in Spain today, do you want to tell us now? Isn't that true? No, ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to allow them to teach us lessons in equality because we're committed to actions we've already left them to you. You are a gesture, Mrs. Pierres said: have the gesture. No, no, no, no. We're not gestures. From gestures is the Government of Madrid. And we hope that the Government of Madrid, which can do so, now rule in the Spanish state and are two years old, the President of the Government yesterday, for the first time, on public television — by the way — that he is!, so that the President of the Government can talk about what it seems to him without asking uncomfortable questions — said they would exhaust the legislation. [[Murmurs.]] Because they're going to run out of legislation, now they have the opportunity to approve at the Congress of Deputies the equalization of paternity permits. And as well as your government partners — the Podemos gentlemen and all the others — agree, for, hey!, it's not so complicated. [[Murmurs.]] I agree with you at the Congress of Members, with 84 Members who have — which is a great result — and then come and teach us something! But, man, now that you rule in the state...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u39	...that they rule in Madrid, that they come to tell us that they cannot equalize parental and maternity leave, ladies and gentlemen, no. If you want, compromise. Stop doing gestures and come to compromise. With us, for commitment, they will always count; for gestures, never. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We have finished the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but at the end of the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Quinteiro still has a shift. Mrs. Quinteiro. Replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u41	Good morning. Again today, Paula, you've made fun of yourself. You're going out in all the press! No lessons. Here the only one who's charged and investigated was you. Do you remember two fucking gifts? [[Applause]] No lessons! None! [[Applause]] Not even the first one! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So I would also ask the President of the House that, when he is here, in this House, he lies with complete impunity, at least he calls himself by order, because this lady lied here about my person. So, please, when you lie shamelessly... when you lie thoughtlessly, you have to make suggestions, too. [[Applause]] [[Protests.]] All I did was literally reproduce what makes a judgment, Gürtel's judgment, which bothers them, which hurts them. [[Applause]] Because we throw them out of Congress and surely, in very little time, they will also be outside the Government of Galicia. So that's what they're worried about, that people know the corruption that goes through their party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We've had to see the lack of neutrality in the previous full. But now it's inciting again. Because, yes, that's not an offense. No, here you can lie shamelessly at the parliamentary headquarters. Of course, as Mariano Rajoy lied, then I suppose it can be done here too. It's embarrassing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's embarrassing! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In addition to a corrupt party, today the People's Party has shown... made it clearer — I think it is more clear than in any intervention in this Parliament — that it is a masquerading party. Absolutely machist! Because to set up this circus in a feminist bill, when we're still mentioning the murder of the Porriño...! [[Applause]] It makes no sense that Mrs Prado the only thing she had been looking for was not to give any kind of political debate or any kind of debate on feminist proposals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, I don't think it's too bad. [[Murmurs.]] We didn't do that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it has nothing to do with it. [[Protests.]] The only one who did a circus and who shows that he doesn't care absolutely nothing about equality and feminism was you, the only one! No spokesman of the opposition made such a circus. So, please, a little respect because they come to prove they don't care exactly. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're lying. Before March 8 they said something. After March 8 they said something else. I could say that this proposal would be studied because it would make us move forward... now they're retreating. [[Murmurs.]] So, as those contradictions are very difficult... welcome, President, to a debate in which I should be here all the time because it was very important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u42	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u43	There's an absolute inconsistencies between the words they said after March 8 and the words they say now. So the mechanism to say: we can't get into contradictions because, of course, if we're talking against this proposal now, we're going to be very bad because we said otherwise. So, what's the solution? To talk about anything; to embarrass and make a circus. [[Murmurs.]] No, it's the only thing you've done, Paula, you haven't said anything about the proposal at all, you haven't said any reason why you'd vote against the proposal. There's no reason! What's the reason to vote against when you say otherwise? What's the reason? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u44	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u45	Oh, of course! If I hadn't said anything else, they'd vote in favour. Go! Go! So, my fault that they changed their sense of vote for my intervention, because I talked about the corruption of the People's Party for a minute. I've got the power to influence the People's Party! I didn't know. I didn't know he had that ability to influence, but I'm already taking note for the next time. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I don't care if they're incoherent, but the problem with their incoherence is that they have repercussions on women's direct lives. You're always on the ground of propaganda, and we don't understand how this contradictory exercise can be done. I suppose later, within two months, they might come out again with another proposal, as if it had not been discussed at any time. They also lie. I don't understand how they don't even pass the procedure, they'll give it to content — which could be a problem. But at the very least they don't make it clear that they don't care exactly what the feminist movement is saying outside. We will remember all the statements made by many spokesmen of the People's Party before 8 March. What happens is that it was a historic mobilization, thousands of women in the streets, and then we'll have to take note, we'll have to put feminist measures. So what do we do? A couple of cosmetic measures without real budget, a conciliation plan that only sets patches. And when we bring a concrete measure, which would progress in a real way and which is also economically sustainable, which is programmed in time, not even with this! Actually, it's proven today that it's a corrupt party and a machist party, that's what I am. A masculine party that refuses to debate equality policies! Because in his speech he spoke of everything but to give one reason why they wouldn't accept this non-law proposal. The women of the People's Party reflect on why they have to vote against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u47	...of these initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilan? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u49	Yes, president. Under Rule 77, I will quote the regulation, there has been a clear "failure" — as you would say on Thursday — by Mrs Paula Prado to the decoration of this House. Apart from the inaccuracies, he said that Mr. Grignan and Mr. Chaves are accused of stealing, of stealing money from the unemployed. She should know exactly the difference between being accused and being accused. Besides, those two people are no longer members of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u50	Thank you. You got it. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u51	We can't say the same thing about Mr. Telmo Martín, who continues in the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u52	Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u53	In accordance with Article 76 — which I think was what the Vice-Speaker, rather than 77 — wanted to mention, which refers to allusions. [[Murmurs.]] I understand the discomfort of the opposition and I understand that the latest news undoes their speeches. What's true is that from the very first moment of this plenary, they're trying to provoke this to become a barbarian debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u54	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u55	Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u56	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u57	So I, apart from the question of the corruption party, I ask you to withdraw from the record of this session that the People's Party is a masquerade party because it is not, and consider it a serious offense. And I also want you to bear in mind in the Minutes — because there was another inaccuracy affecting the honorability of our group — that Mrs Prado's case — which has been investigated — is filed because she did not commit any crime. So please treat an innocent as appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u58	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u59	And finally, with regard to the precision that the spokeswoman of the Socialist Party has said, you actually do a precision of accusation and accusation, and what are being processed both right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u60	Silence! I beg you all to cooperate. Of course, actually... No, I don't... I want to explain. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm here for something. I've got a paycheck and I've got this public position so I won't be here in papalata looking at how you're being insulted. Please! So, I beg you to cooperate with all of us, who also have public salaries, and we should all try to collaborate in the debates. I know there are expressions that can disturb each other. Please escape from them or look for other ways to say it! I ask them to cooperate, because if not, this pim pam pum will be constant, and to society this doesn't like anything, I also tell them. There you are! We vote. [[Strong murmurers.]] Yes, yes, no, but the expression of "machist party" was yours and they're asking you to withdraw it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think it must be withdrawn because PP is not a macho party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, it's not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You're being asked to remove the expression from the "machist party". They're asking for it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then withdraw the presidency. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Perfect! [[Protests.]] Is he? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Pontón, what do you want the word for? [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. We're going to finish now. Mrs. Pontón, why... Mrs. Santos, please. Silence! Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u61	Well, the truth is... Mr. President, I believe that based on the same article as Mr. Puy. Based on the same article as Mr. Puy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u62	Article?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u63	Home!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u65	I don't know if the faculty of ordering the plenary now corresponds to Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u66	Quiet. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u67	Mr. President, I'm very used to it. I don't think it's normal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u68	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u69	...but I have heard on many occasions accusations and accusations against our group that are absolutely unfair and that I have to accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u71	...because they are part of the use that the People's Party wants to make of certain situations of some people. Especially because he wants to conceal the condemnation of the People's Party for corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u72	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u73	So, really, I think the most hygienic from a democratic point of view is that the People's Party assumes that this is the reality, that it does not come here to insult us all and all — as Mrs Prado did in her intervention — and that they do not intend to numb us... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u75	...when we're talking about very important issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u77	I want to know, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u79	...it's if you think that when a machismo imputation is made to a party as is your duty to withdraw, and when other members of this House use that same qualification to other people, you have nothing to say. It would be very nice to know, Mr. President... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u80	I always try to intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u81	...what is your criterion in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u83	Because all he's showing us is that it doesn't work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u85	... according to your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u87	We are very concerned and concerned about the public image of politics and this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u88	Your time is up. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u89	But I think, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u90	Thank you, your time is up. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Leicega? Thank you. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u91	I insist on what I said. I insist on what I said. They're looking for collaboration. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of En Marea, for the amendment of Law 2/2015 of 29 April of the Public Employment of Galicia. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This bill is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u92	Open the doors, please, the vote is over. Let's move on to the second point. Opinion of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, on his own request, to report on the situation of non-university education in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u93	To make your appearance you have the floor Mr. Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u94	Very good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this time it is worth doing or trying to make a joint reflection on the German educational system. This camera, no doubt, is the right space to try to analyze where we are and where we walk. This week is significant because the educational activity is over, and, as we have done on other occasions, the Council wants to value the work done both from the administration and from the necessary collaboration of the educational community as a whole. The 2017-2018 course started with normality and ends with quietness, fulfilling the roadmap designed at the beginning of the legislation, which aims to consolidate the differentiated educational model launched in Galicia. A model that is oriented to pupils and their families, also to teachers, under the bet on turning educational centers into real learning spaces, innovation and equal opportunities generators. A model based, first, on the updating of foreign language learning and empowerment; second, on the real integration of ICT into the formative process, to progressively achieve digital teaching; third, on the bet on promoting scientific and technological skills, generating new vocations STEM — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — between the student; fourth, on the impulse of FP's teachings, as a real opportunity for connection between the educational world and the productive world; and fifth, on the development of education in an appropriate climate of coexistence, equity and social justice, through strategies and initiatives such as the Galician coexistence strategy itself, the program contracts, the project plan or the equality plan in educational centres. Finally, a differentiated model, which provides positive results both in quality and equity. This is shown by different studies of an international nature. The small balance mode, I would like to value the following data related to the course ending: Plurilinguism. In this course, 75% of the centers, a total of nine hundred thirty-eight, participated in multilingual programs, which meant that 106,113 students and students were directly benefited, 31% of the total student. In particular, Galicia has three hundred twenty-two multilingual centres in the current course, which involves the provision of up to a third of the teaching time in a foreign language. Eighty-three centres first expanded multilingualism to children, the so-called "Plurinfantil". Four centers also had multilingualism in Bachelor's degree, Pluribach for the first time. For the first time in Galicia there were twelve cycles of multilingual FP in seven educational centers. The bilingual sections went up to 4,145, that is, two hundred thirty-one more than the past course. And we count on the course that will end this week with five hundred auxiliaries of conversation. Digital learning, E-digital. We've developed a strategy in two areas. The first is the equipping of equipment that allows digital classes to develop digital training with the use of content and the digital book. Abalar project, fifty-two thousand students and three thousand two hundred digital educational resources complementary in seven languages. Digital book, E-Dixgal, more than eleven thousand six hundred students, one hundred fifty-four centers. Digital classes, six thousand classes, one hundred twenty thousand students, nine hundred centers. Robotic, eight hundred sixty kits distributed in primary and secondary centers. With regard to the reinforcement of digital competition and scientific-technological competition and STEM studies, in this course more than 5,000 students from Greece received training in robotics, programming or digital identity, through free self-sustainment materials. We delivered hundreds of 3D printing and Maker computing robotics kits to educational centers, which reached twenty-two thousand students. Pioneering initiatives have been carried out, such as science clubs or STEM weeks. And all of this is supported by an ambitious teacher training program with five hundred training activities, in which more than five thousand teachers participated. Inclusion, equity, coexistence and equality. A quality education system must be inclusive and equitable. This course, the Council maintained its efforts to focus on diversity and the development of protocols and to promote flexible itineraries for students with special educational needs. This makes the Greek education system the most inclusive of all Spain. In Galicia, one in ten educational professionals specializes in caring for diversity. At this point, I would like to remind you that 91.9 % of the student with special educational needs, the largest percentage of Spain, is integrated in the ordinary centres, which favors equal opportunities in teaching and genuine social justice. Over the years, the Council has also betted on program contracts, which are a good tool for reducing early dropout and improving equal opportunities, equity and inclusion. The programme contracts received a total of 139,999 pupils, representing a 34% increase over the past course. Four hundred and seventy-three schools, 14% more than the previous exercise, developed 1,251 initiatives different from the nine established lines. Our teaching continues to be all about this in terms of coexistence and also of promoting equality, thanks to the development of much of the measures envisaged in both the Galician Strategy of coexistence, called Educonvives, as well as the Equality Plan in educational centres. In order to have as strict a view as possible, we are defining the items that from a technical perspective should be included in the new survey on coexistence. We choose not to precipitate the implementation of the framework inquiry in this course, since the questions to be raised must allow a comparison with the 2015 data and, at the same time, serve as a new tool for diagnosing the situation of co-education in the fight against gender violence and also the situation of coexistence in an integral way. Galicia has a clearly co-educational and egalitarian system. We've made a lot of progress, but there's still a lot left to do. Without a doubt, the progressive development of the 1980s and seven measures of the Equal Plan of Educational Centres will continue to take steps in this line. The student and the teacher are strengthening the training on equality of men and women, and also on the need to refuse and combat gender violence, through cross-sectional content in the curricula of specific subjects of free configuration, both for ESO and for bachelorship, of work by projects and available resources at the Equality Portal, activated in this course 2017-2018, which joins the cycle of higher vocational training on the promotion of gender equality that has already taken the course. Vocational training. Galicia has a modern professional education and prestige. He made a decisive bet on FP's teachings, relating them to the socio-productive fabric of each area and getting the business sector to view them as a great opportunity. A great opportunity both to have highly formed human capital and to grow in competitiveness. To talk about the Galician FP today means to speak of a modern, dynamic, innovative teaching adapted to socio-economic reality and also as a source of employability for students. So they understood it and so they understand it by about fifty-one thousand enrolled in this 2017-2018 course. In the community, in Galicia, there are more pupils enrolled in FP than in bacharelate, about 60-40, coming or approaching the goal that marks the European Union, and on the line of the most advanced countries in Europe, as could be Germany. The prestige achieved in recent years by vocational training in Galicia is based on the fact that these teachings achieve a high percentage of employment insertion, about 76.5%, where the student is in contact with the company through training in work centres, the so-called FPT, and of course dual vocational training, and also in the development of the entrepreneurial and innovative spirit. As a matter of fact, the Council has several programmes aimed at stimulating the entrepreneurial spirit among students. They all grow up in the Plan of Entrepreneurship of the Education System of Galicia, the one known as Eduemprene. It's about boosting this culture with the aim of improving the employment integration of young people and young people in Greece and making progress in the improvement of the productive sectors. In this area, it is important to highlight the relevant role that business farmers play in their own educational centres. Business vines that are production spaces of business ideas and projects. At present, the livestock network is composed of a total of twenty-six, and they have appeared in them already twenty-nine companies that are on the market. If we add to this ten companies that are still inside the nursery today, we have thirty-nine business projects that arose in the business farmers that we have within the educational centres. With the aim of continuing to increase these spaces and promote the entrepreneurship and employability of our student, this 2017-2018 course, which will end this week, has launched seven new nursery. In this context of involvement with the socio-productive fabric and promotion of entrepreneurship, last April, the Junta de Galicia, together with the Vigo Franc Zone, presented the future FP Campus de Vigo; a pioneering project at the national level, which will be the best bridges between the education system and the industrial and technological sector. At this moment we are finalizing an agreement of collaboration with the Vigo Free Zone that we understand of great interest to both institutions and to the whole of the Galician educational system. On the other hand, in April, there were two relevant educational events which are supposed to be of value to the work done by the educational community in areas that we understand are important. I'm talking about the STEM-Up Galicia, the first fair held in Galicia of these characteristics, and in which about 3,000 students and eighteen centers participated, with a goal: to make science and technology projects visible, creativity and also the ability to innovate in the teaching of Greek. And also from the third edition of the FP Innova Congress, where more than 8,000 people, between students, teachers and companies participating in projects — more than five-year-olds — as well as the general public, have discovered the potentials of Galician vocational training. The fair has emphasized the innovation, competitiveness, employability and social use of these teachings, in order to respond, in this case, to the needs of society and productive tissue. We are particularly proud of the participation of the educational community in these events, as it demonstrates the innovative power, also the motivation and involvement of non-university education in Galicia. I think it might be said that the innovative and differentiated model of education in Galicia has been consolidated in this course, while the provision of supplementary education services for transport and school dining has also been guaranteed. A totally free school transport that uses over 90,000 students and students from seven hundred and sixty-four public centers. In addition, the Council has signed agreements with thirteen entities in this course to facilitate transport services to three hundred and fifty-five pupils with special educational needs. Galicia is the most invested autonomous community, and differently, in this service, that -- as you know -- this year began to lend itself in a shared way on some routes, and is also working to make this mode extendable to other spaces. The system, despite some augurs, worked normally with the school blockage and with minimal incidences. The school dining rooms have grown in the course that will end tomorrow. In the 2017-2018 course, the number of users of this service is 74,828, i.e. 2,197 users more than in the 2016-2017 course. All this adding up the dining rooms managed directly by the council, also by the ANPA and the municipalities. In addition, we have fulfilled our responsibility to facilitate adapted and suitable facilities to meet the needs of the educational community as a whole. In this regard, I think it is no less important to highlight the important effort made in the execution of works to improve educational centres. He used to talk about the consolidation of Galicia's educational model, and, no doubt, the Greek teachers are active, participatory and innovative agents of our teaching. It is fair to acknowledge that Galicia has professional and committed teachers, to whom we are very grateful for their surrender, for their motivation and effort. We are aware that the quality of an educational system affects different elements, but the professor is undoubtedly one of the fundamental parts. Since the Council, the decision has been made to promote measures that enable us to have teachers with adequate and up-to-date training to respond to the needs, demands and challenges facing the students of the 21st century. In the past we defend ourselves before the Ministry of Education, and we will reiterate it again in the face of the changes in this department, which Galicia believes it is necessary to articulate coordinated mechanisms to prestigious teacher training and to generate specialized public employment in an orderly manner. The teaching function is key. In its immediate future we must bet on a modeled system that we could call "three Fs", the end of initial training in the faculties of Education Sciences, the end of training for access to teaching adapted to the challenges and competencies required by school and global society, and the end of continuing training, to ensure continuous action. As part of our responsibility, we have already started working on the renewal and updating of the teacher's initial training. We're doing this with a specific working group with the education science Deans of the Galician University System of SUG. We also wager, and we bet, for permanent formation. This competence of the council itself, where we enhance the learning of foreign languages and the acquisition of scientific and technical competences. For example, this course, seven out of every ten public schools, a total of six hundred eighty-eight, developed a permanent teacher training plan, with one or more training lines in plans aimed at improving professional and teacher skills. In the past we had a total of two thousand and eight hundred teacher training activities, and more than twenty thousand teachers participated in them. Another matter, related to the teacher, is that this same week, starting on Saturday, there will be the evidence corresponding to the public job offer, the OPE, the oppositions. I would like to point out that this year there are two thousand and fifty square places called, and these are the 4,928 posts of officials fired from the opposition on an offer made since 2009. The OPE this year is called upon to cover the total rate of retirement replacement and to allow employment stabilization in the education sector. With this call we have complied with the state and autonomic stabilization agreements and have lowered the already reduced rate of interinternity of the Greek education. You know that Galicia is the community that has the lowest interim rate in the Spanish ensemble, and it's an OPE that mobilizes a large amount of resources. We're talking about one hundred thirty-seven courts, involving six hundred eighty-five teachers, who will be the evaluators, and who mobilize over seventeen thousand opponents. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said in recent years about the need to set up the education system of the 21st century, adapted to the new training needs of the student and to the challenges of society. Today, the reality is that we are faced with a new political scenario, and we all have a responsibility to succeed in the drive for quality and the improvement of the teaching of the whole of Spain. In this course, Galicia and other autonomous communities have held work meetings to analyze educational policies, exchange experiences and explore new ways of collaboration between different territories. So it happened in León on January 10th this year, where we met in charge and technical teams from the councils of Galicia, Asturias and Castile and León. And another similar experience was the one held last April 13 in Zaragoza, in this case with a meeting of representatives of five communities from different political parties, since earlier ones were added Castile-A Mancha and also Aragon. We have to see if in the face of new political times there is room for cooperation, for quiet reflection and for agreements on education, always thinking about what is best for the student and for the future of society. Galicia will maintain a responsible attitude, bringing our experience to aspects in which we are leaders, such as the implementation in digital teaching of STEM competences, the learning of foreign languages, the integral focus of coexistence in educational centres, inclusive education, cohabitation in the balance of co-official languages, enhancing the language itself, or the empowerment of vocational training. We look forward, with great interest, to knowing the lines of action that the new Ministry of Education and Vocational Training wants to promote, convinced that Galicia is on the right track, and to be able to continue to defend that the future of our society, our country is playing in education today. I insist that the whole education system should center its students on innovative, time-consuming projects. And it's fair to equip the professor with the necessary mechanisms throughout his career, to ensure success within the teaching-learning process. In this regard, I have already mentioned the need to relate to initial training, access to the teaching profession and permanent training. While we believe that it is essential to link the number of access squares to the State-wide Sciences of Education with the capacity to absorb the education system at the level of employment; by the way, in line with the plans of the Conference of Deans of Spanish Universities. And we both understand in this case that this would help to raise the standards of prestige and social considerations of both career and teaching. After this balance, and with the risk that it sounds repeated, we must now be aware that the completion of a course necessarily implies starting to work on the next one. And I repeat — as it cannot be otherwise — that we aspire to continue to manage the reality that touches us living with realism. We want to continue to consolidate the actions that are working and at the same time drive other news. The German Government reinforces its commitment to quality education, initially providing school infrastructures where necessary. That is, planning investments, taking into account exclusively pedagogical, demographic, geographic and management criteria responsible for public resources. And I want to record in this chamber, so that there is no misunderstanding, that for the next 2018-2019 course, the school reorganization will be carried out in two municipalities: in Soutomajor, Pontevedra, and in Culleredo, La Coruña. A reorganization that is determined by the entry into operation of two new construction centers: the new CEIP in Culleredo and an IES in Soutomaior. Soutomaior's IES will school students in ESO and Bachelor's degree, while the current ICC Manuel Padín will become a CEIP, i.e., with only childhood and primary lessons, moving secondary students to the new IES. During the summer we will perform several works so that the centres are in appropriate conditions at the beginning of the educational activity in the period 2018-2019. In addition to the timely actions, the projected implications and the new centres that we are going to launch, I would also like to highlight the performances carried out or that will be carried out within the Energy Efficiency Plan. These involve a great transformation, with comprehensive reforms in the main building elements of the educational centers. In this summer of 2018 we are going to carry out interventions of this kind in nine centers; centres where, by their antiquity or their circumstances, we see the need to act. For the next course, Narón, Touro, Viveiro, Lugo, Ribadavia, Xinzo, Caldas, Mos and Moraña will have fully rehabilitated educational centres, with investments ranging, according to each case, from between four hundred thousand euros and one million euros. And we will also continue to bet on school libraries, technologies, coexistence and equality, as well as language learning. Action lines that have very good reception between the student and the teacher. As you know, foreign language teaching and learning is one of the strategic lines of the Greek Government, which, by the way, is being welcomed, very well welcomed — I would say — by the centers and by the families. We already have new positive data in the Edulingue strategy. As a result, the next course will follow the progress both quantitative and qualitative of a multilingual model. Thus, forty-five new multilingual centers will be incorporated into primary and ESO, that is, 16% more than the current 2017-2018 course, forty-five new multilingual centers; fifty-eight new centers in Plurinfantil, 70% more than currently existing in this course; and four new centers in Pluribach, where we duplicate the four existing in this course. We are missing, we are awaiting the call for vocational training, which we understand is going along the lines of the said will continue to increase the supply in this area. We'll also continue to bet on the E-digital strategy. One of the new developments for the next course will be the start of the bachelorate of excess in Science and Technology, the so-called "STEMbach". The next course will be offered for the first time with the objective of promoting the student's vocation for scientific and technological research, through a methodology that facilitates his relationship with the university world and will enable him to build a bridge between educational levels. Another new STEM action is the creation of the Maker spaces, places in the centers themselves that promote the creativity of the student under the maximum learning level. These are spaces that will bring with them specific equipment and an economic approach. Students, teachers and even families will participate in them. In this first call we seek to reach ten educational centres, which will be given the necessary material as well as an individual approach of 2,000 euros to develop activities. We will continue to develop the Educonves strategy and the Equality Plan. Yesterday, we presented the new matter of free self-configuration Coeducación for the 21st century, in this case in the field of Bachelor's degree. We already have one for ESO: Gender equality, which will be available to be given by the Greek institutes for the next 2018-2019 course. As I said, she's directed to the undergraduate students. And this new subject, which can be introduced into schools that voluntarily desire it, seeks to revoke internalized gender stereotypes not only in young people, but also in society as a whole. As a matter of fact, the centres can provide a new matter, also called the Inclusive Society, which is scheduled for the 1st or 2nd ESO. The objective of this matter, Inclusive Society, is awareness, is social education, to achieve a fully inclusive society that meets the principles set out in the Declaration of Human Rights and Persons with Disabilities. Yesterday we presented the new offer of FP for the next course, an offer of FP that will respond again to the challenge of progressively adapting to the demand and needs of Galicia's socio-productive reality. The next course, ladies and gentlemen, will be the reinforcement of Dual Vocational Training, the Dual FP, in our community. In 2018-2019 some 1,261 training cycles will be offered, with an increase of 1,4 % compared to the past course. This offer of squares seeks to respond to the demands of the strategic sector for the Greek economy. Thus, in the wood and furniture and mechanical manufacturing sectors, the supply increased by 9.7%; in ICT, computer science and communications, by 6.3%; in accommodation, tourism and also in marine-fishing, by more than 5.6%; and also in automotive, by 5.5%. The importance of this increase in supply is greater given that it occurs mainly in the dual FP modality. In concert, in FP Dual, four cycles will be offered for the first time in the wood and furniture sector, with leading companies in Galicia within the sector; and also two cycles in maritime-fishing. There are also significant increases, in the FP Dual, in mechanical manufacturing, from 1 to 7 cycles; in hospitality and tourism, where the supply increases by 55.5%; in computer and communications, where it increases by 200%; and also in automotive, by 250%. These are just brushes. There's still time to set up and finish preparing and finishing the next 2018-2019 course. We will do so with responsibility, and we will undoubtedly speak again at the beginning of the course in this House of everything that affects the teaching of Greek. I hope that the pause in educational activity during the summer period will serve us to resume with new spirits, and also with a new spirit of collaboration, the start of the 2018-2019 course. Among all, we must maintain something fundamental, we must maintain the good results in quality and equity of public education in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u95	Thank you very much, Counselor. We started with the turn of parliamentary groups. And you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Rodil Fernández, by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u96	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I believe that, after what we lived yesterday, we have knowledge of a new machist murder, that of Magdalena Moreira, we could neither begin nor confront this intervention as if nothing had happened, as if it had been something normal, as if it had not been remedied inside, given that we are in an audience to talk about non-university education, to address one of the main transformation tools — or at least with greater social transformation potential — than our society has available. He's not the only one but he's one of the most powerful and important socialization agents. We, from the BNG, wanted to start there, because of the importance of teaching in the fight against masculine violence, in the fundamental role — I would almost say in the absolutely essential role — that he has the education to fight those vimbs who support the patriarchal system and the masculine violence, as the main tool if we want to leave behind that normality with which we seem to rise every day, as if it were something irremediable, as if it were something against which we cannot act. And it's not true. I'm going to start right there, because of that application of the first Equality Plan that was approved by the Galician Board, which reaches the General Secretariat of Equality and the Education Council, of which you lead the task force. You've been through a lot of stitches. I understand that interventions around an academic course are broad, reach and cover a lot of questions. But if we want to focus one of our reflections — I would say one of the most important — precisely on this execution, on the implementation of the measures provided for in that first equality plan. You announced — and it was also a news that we knew yesterday afternoon — that will offer Galician board in the next course this matter of free configuration, coeducción for the 21st century, addressed to the undergraduate student. And we looked back and we went, after two academic courses developing and applying that matter of equality in secondary school, which covers only 30 centers of 1,200 educational centers in our country, and which, according to data from the Galician Union, is enrolled 800 students in our country. I mean, it's less than 1% of the student set we have in Galicia. We have less than 3% of the educational centers and less than 1% of the student who is studying that optional matter; optional to be offered in the centers and also optional to be taught by the student. And it seems to us, really, that we need to move forward in the involvement of the whole of Galician Union in the frontal fight against violence, and in particular — I insist very much on this — in the Education Council. I very much stress that we are faced — in the case of the education system — with the main agent, with the greatest transforming power that society has if we really want to go to the root of the problem; go to the root of the problem and educate the present societies — not future, present — in values that have nothing to do with stereotypes, with the prejudices and violence that currently prevails and that leaves us today another name, or less, but there are more women in situations of macho violence every day because of the mere fact that we are women. We want it to deepen more in what is being done since the Council, what has been done, in particular, in this course that ends tomorrow in the implementation of the actions that they understand or compose that first equality plan. What about the revision of educational materials? What about teacher training? You said you were part of the teacher's training plan. And we want to know how many courses and how many people participated, how many educational materials were reviewed, how many meetings and discussion forums to weave common strategic lines on equality in all the networks of public educational centres in our country took place and with what result. We want concrete. That is to say, in the same way that we are offered very specific, very detailed data on the implementation of the STEMs, for example, or the application and development of that Decree of multilingualism, of which I will also talk, we want concrete, we want specific data on the implementation of that Equality Plan. How much budget was specifically invested in the 2017-2018 course? What concrete actions? Because I insist: it seems to us well, it is not too much, that there are new subjects of free configuration directed to the bachelor's degree, that there is this matter of free configuration in high school. But 30 centers!, 30 centers of 1,100 in two academic courses and only 800 students from more than 300,000 people we have in our country's regular education! They look like tiny data, little ones! So we want more concrete and more data on that issue. I will also address — we have time very high — three fundamental issues. The first is vocational training. It's also a priority issue for the People's Party, it's a central axis of the educational model that's being defended. We look good at the data coming up every year from new centers and new cycles. But what we want is also a diagnosis of which are the results obtained, not only from the application, for example, of the Dual Vocational Training, but specifically from one of the strategies they drew from the People's Party to combat early abandonment, early educational abandonment, as was this Basic Vocational Training. We have taken four courses since its implementation and it is virtually non-existent the information that exists regarding the results obtained from the implementation of this Basic Vocational Training. We are the only ones who have developed a study that has been published at the end of 2017 by researchers from the University of Santiago de Compostela, which places us in our country, in Galicia, is that, since its implementation, almost 49% of the student enrolled in the first course does not complete his training, who abandons these studies of Basic Vocational Training — which is not enrolled, to understand us. It's a student who disappears between the first and second course of Basic Vocational Training. What are the data that the Education Council manages? What are the results of this Basic Vocational Training? What are the results of the dual vocational training as well as the student who culminates in his training, who obtains his degree? What is the percentage of work insertion? What working conditions do these people have that culminate in vocational training in their different modalities in our country, and how long, for example, do they delay in obtaining the first training contract, how long does that contract last, how long do they take to be able to enter the labour market and how long and how long does that contract develop? Then there are two other questions that are also fundamental to us. The first is multilingualism. We will repeat it until satiety, and we have seen it denounce permanently since the year 2010 in which the decree, the decree of plurilingualism comes into force. This year — or this academic course, since we speak in educational terms, this academic course, we have on the table what is the analysis, what is the diagnosis, to be more accurate, not only of the Galaga Culture Council but of the Academy as to the consequences it is having for the language of our country the application of that Decree of Plurilingualism. It was also very clear last week in this House, in Commission 4th, the newly elected President of the Council of Culture. He said, "Young people want the English, but lose it because they are not present in basic education, and socialize in areas where Spanish is imposed." The Academy, in addition to this academic course, drew close to the political debate and social debate in which it pointed out directly and clearly that the application of the decree, of Decree 79/2010, underwent a reversal in the presence of the Greek language, bringing it back to the 1990s. The application of the decree made a reversal in all areas analyzed in the teaching, of what we are talking about today, which is compulsory education, primary education, secondary education, both in the use of language in the classroom, the use with companions, oral with teachers, and written uses. That multilingual model, Mr. Rodríguez, of what you feel, is one of the main causes of the retreat experienced by our language in recent years, which places — and I insist that this is the diagnosis of the Academy itself — Galicia in the situation we had in the 1990s, two decades ago. And we don't know, in addition, what the result is with the acquisition of language skills in other foreign languages. We're almost going to have to ask bilingual sections for Greek, to guarantee their presence in many educational centers in our country. We, from the BNG, have been asking for information on what is the result...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u98	...—it ends—with regard to the presence of the language itself in the regulated teaching of our country through that assessment which contemplates the decree itself. And we demand the reports, or the results of that application of the decree, pursuant to article 9, we request them in this Chamber in February 2017 and we continue to wait for those results. We don't know if they have anything to hide, what reality is, and what the Government of the People's Party is planning to do to take on the responsibilities it has in terms of linguistic normalization. We'll continue on the second shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. About two years ago, I — from the highest possible point of view — told the Counsellor that I came to present something similar to an Ikea catalogue on all the innovations and educational modalities. Today—also, of course, with the same respect—I almost tell you that you seem to be making an inventory closure. coincidentally with the end of the course, it comes here to squeeze us with a series of figures, a really disturbing amount, about the different programs. I am left with a sentence that you said within this dynamic — which I applauded, applauded and acknowledged — of accountability to Parliament on the functioning of the education system. He said the course had started and ended normally. That being true, I also tell you — as I have already told you on another occasion — that the great systems have great inertia. It's very difficult to put them into operation and it's very difficult to put them into operation. Therefore, recognizing that, in fact, there was this normality, it is also true that it is part of a normality that exists in the rest of the state in general, with some other incidence, in any case, less. Which, I repeat, does not take any credit for it, nor does it distinguish it from other educational realities. The fact is, for our group, the action of the Education Council can be defined in four main lines: firstly, a certain degree of inefficiencies; secondly, improvisation; otherly, of permanent contempt for dialogue; and, yes, a capacity — not already unusual, because it is recurrent — of systematic and continuing propaganda of what you make alarm. If I may, with respect to inefficiencies, you have a frankly worrying tendency, and it is to leave all the processes of educational innovation, all the experiments, or experiments -- I understand the term "experiences" -- for the last hour, to convene the centers with very little time, and for the clauses themselves — and it is a reality that you think you know or, in any case, should know — if you carry out a successive reflection on the implications that for the ordinary life of these centers have all those programs. And for some reason, it makes one think if it's the last-minute occurrences. I think not, but — I insist — you have been in the Council for a long time to know that there are programs that must be planned in advance. So that educational institutions have enough time to reflect on the implications of participation or not in these innovations. On the other hand, it's a historic constant that the Education Council concentrates the highest percentage of citizens' complaints related to self-government. The 2017 People's Valuer's Report places a 20.13% percentage, above you, of the Health Council itself. Frankly, I don't think this is a reason for pride in counseling. Recently, the 4th Commission asked the technical secretary — since you made an explicit reference to this programme — about the equipment relating to the E-Dixgal programme, and it turns out that you delivered most of the equipment in February. I believe that it is also a problem — not exclusively the Council but the procurement and procurement system itself — but, in any case, it is a consequence of this improvisation to which it referred. You can't deliver equipment to half the course, because it's obvious that the other half, before the reception of that equipment -- I'm not going to talk about the time it takes to set up in an optimal way of that equipment -- things haven't been working how it should work. With regard to improvisation, you just said -- and it's true -- that they announced a bachelor's degree of excellence in Science and Technology. Another last-minute innovation — you announced last week — that aims, of course, to strengthen vocations and STEM training. It's a commendable thing, of course, necessary to bring the education system into line with the social demands of the 21st century. Until then, all right. But, frankly, I would like you to explain to me in your next intervention how you intend to guarantee, for the sake of that fairness you have referred to on several occasions, for all the undergraduate students, because that additional matter is going to be taken on an extra-school schedule and therefore out of school transport — for all of us to understand. And I'm going to say some random municipalities, for example a student from some parish in Lalín, or a student from Jobda who's going to graduate from the bachelor's school to Ribadeo, some Salceda from Caselas -- to those we referred to last week in the Education Commission. Are you going to have a chance to participate, if you don't have school transportation, unless it's your parents — mother and father — or someone who takes them to the centers to study that additional matter? We therefore sincerely believe that this fairness is not sufficiently guaranteed, except that you — I insist — can explain to me how they will do it. Also in the matter of improvisation you had a regrettable episode two weeks ago related to a collective, small or large -- it's irrelevant if there are few or many students -- and with regard to the evaluation of the bachelor's degree for access to university; a question in which there was a certain disagreement with the Ministry of Education with regard to the interpretation of a ministerial order that you — you know as I do — regulated access in a transitory manner as long as no clear rules are laid down for access to university. I insist, they finally managed, but those students and students were in a situation of indecision because they didn't know whether or not they had to examine something as irrelevant as the assessment test for access to university, the old selectivity. That's the reality. I'm sorry about the dialogue? Well, just a few weeks ago in this Parliament, a non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was rejected on the subject of a report by you here on the evaluation of the implementation of the I Equal Plan in educational centres, as referred to Mrs Rodil, who preceded me. How is it possible that information is denied, that the evaluation of how is the implementation of a plan as absolutely vital to our society as this 1st Equality Plan is being rejected? For you, the parliamentary group that supports the Government, have denied that possibility — I insist — just a few weeks ago. Well, it turns out that any discrepancy with the Government is simply disrupting the normal functioning of the Government and the Autonomous Community. As is the case with the opposition parliamentary groups to come to Parliament to talk about politics, when we all know that this is a collective formed all with people who are, at least, sub-directors or deputy generals. I mean, this is a technical body, like we're going to talk about politics in the Galician Parliament! Where did he see himself? And that's the reality that we face permanently the opposition groups. No, no, it's a technical matter, it's not a political issue. But, as I told you, you are some real phenomena in propaganda. It would be absolutely unaffordable in the time of what we have to do a storytelling, as far as it was concerned, of the number of exhibitions, meetings, schedules, seminars or any other form of grouping of people that makes the Council. So far, I'm starting to think that educational centers have never enjoyed less organizational autonomy, because they are placed in a dynamic of permanent participation to have certain labels of participation in events that prevent them from organizing themselves with the characteristics of their environment, which is the true autonomy. And it's rare the week you don't beat the teacher as the real engine of education. In fact, he made an explicit and quite extensive reference to the teacher as to initial training and continuing training. He spoke of the public offer of employment and the reduction of employment by itself — it is true — that this autonomous community has a low rate of interinence. But, Counsellor, what explanation do you have for increasing the number of teachers and teachers receiving voluntary retirement when, of course, this reflects that there is a degree of high dissatisfaction and those people who can afford retirement do so? How can this duality be given that, on the one hand, they are the best in the education system — that they are — and, on the other hand, those who can leave? How can we lose that highly formed human capital as teachers and teachers with a high number of years of service and, therefore, teaching?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u102	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. But, look, the reality is that you have reduced the budget in education to such an extent that the difference accumulated between the year 2009, since you rule, and the current 2018 is 3,616 million euros, counting the accumulated inflation. And that -- you know -- is nothing more and nothing less than 1.33 times the budget that you have for the whole year 2018. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your flexibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Cuña Bóveda has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Mr. Román Rodríguez. I want to start by saying that you speak of tranquility. Well, relative. Of course, it doesn't seem to have heard, or it doesn't seem to have seen, that there were several manifestations of the student, and one of them is very important — it has been referred to at this time. One of them was where students were demanding effective mechanisms against male violence. They filled the streets, yes, more than 80%, asking for a democratic and feminist education, and asking for a real alternative to the Wert Law. I think it's also very important to talk about the rejection of the whole society to the evidence — you're revalid, I mean — And he was the largest in the whole state. Here we are the first and the first to reject evidence that both the unions, ANPA, opposition and parents are censored by the pressure they put on and also by contempt for teaching work and evaluation continues. But, well, there's a lot to say. You come here with your script, and it's a pity we don't go through it before so you can go deep into a lot of vital issues, which are for society as a whole. But I'm, a little bit, going to do a game of imagination, since you talked about creativity. You, Counselor, are you a historian, aren't you? The geographer? [[The Counselor utters words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, I thought I was also a historian. An unforgivable lapse for lack of knowledge. I'm sorry, but I can play the game anyway, I think. Let's imagine that you, as counsellor, must also approve the revalids if you want to revalidate your office. Better — as with the revamps there is a cry of rejection — we imagine that you are in a test of access to the university and that you have to make a comment on the history of the contemporary world. Is it not true that our world is ruined as at any previous time in democracy or as in any other country of the European Economic Community? You can — and this could also ask either of the Members or of the Members, or any of the students and students of Bachelors degree — look like the angel of Benjamin's history and go to the present looking at the past or like a crab heading towards the past staring at the present. Let us examine the present as a historical entity. Don't you think he's confused, absurd and incomprehensible? Doesn't it force you to accept a series of axioms for those who don't find analogies in past societies and countries around us? Don't you see an incredible combination of horrors, cruelty and unprecedented degradations in other historical times? How is this extraordinary evil explained? This problem could be considered under a completely new light starting from the assumption that we are not faced with an ordinary type of evil but with institutionalized corruption. This threshold is born of repugnantness in the face of terrible corruption: 28 crimes of prevarication, 24 of rockets, 26 of bleaching, 36 of embezzlement of public funds, 20 of the public estate, 29 convicted. And that's just the first part of Gürtel, a judicial investigation so immense and complex that he had to tear himself apart in a dozen more cases so that Justice could digest. They have students and students who want to overcome this revamp the possibility of reading the Gürtel judgment, but, as it has 1,687 pages, only two key words: institutional corruption. They look at the following paragraphs, between pages 154 and 300, in the judgment: "In view of the inflated prices charged by the various public administrations concerned, the aim sought was to obtain substantial economic benefits illegally". At what cost? From the public era. This threshold is also born from rejection, the intolerable attempt to silence us, not to allow us to speak of proven facts, proven facts, and not lying accusations. The lie has short legs -- they told us -- but it's also very long when you want to dress up. The lie, as Socrates said, is not enough; the lie, Counselor, is a very used tool here. Today Mrs. Paula Prado lied about our companion Paula Quinteiro, who is neither accused nor committed any crime; she didn't break any, absolutely no mirror. So let's be... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, how can we prevent Members from talking about the bites of corruption? I don't know how they're not ashamed. I don't know how they're not ashamed. They served directly to pay electoral or similar expenses of the People's Party, went to stop finalist donations, to box B. They are not ashamed to belong to a party convicted of spreading a artillery — scathological and obscene artillery — corruption. And besides, this intense negotiated relationship also arrived at other autonomous communities, which are still governed by the PP. What opinion does the 37-year-old sentence on Pablo Crespo, who was Secretary of Organization of the Italian PP, deserve? Mephistopheles — said a lucid writer in Greek — seemed to have the tile through the handle in the war between corruption and honest politics. There are many people who hope honest politics will win, but, if this were so, surely the judge who was expelled for opening up the mother plot's first dilemmas, Gürtel, and ordering the story and listening to Mephistopheles, would be out. Counselor, every time there is corruption, Fausto's myth is reborn. The biggest corruption will create less stability. With regard to your appearance, say that there are recent data from PISA as well. You have used us to an exacerbated, hyperbolic triumphalism that we're working on, that we have the best model in the world. If we have a good model, it is thanks — if you recognized it — to a truly committed teacher who, despite the brute cuts, has vocation and struggle. I think it should be an honor for you to be an advisor to Culture, Education and Universitary Ordination, but if you could make decisions, right? Because some of you have taken, not only have you taken those coming from the Ministry, which is now going to change, and if you change, you will have to abide by others, of course, so respectful of the law. Because I'm sure you took your life doing the right thing and it was well-managed. Of course, at breakfast he won't drop the toast with tears for passing the legislation by bringing and carrying what the minister marked. I suppose he'll change now. What will your political stance be? We're very interested in this. We're used to listening to PISA data and some PISA data that you used boasting about something that, in addition, had more to do with the application of LOE, so criticized by you, and not so much with LOMCE, that legitimate social inequalities. I don't know if you get it. Look at the last ones. With respect to cohabitation, the German student is below the average in solving group problems. According to the most recent report, the ninth position is reached in relation to other communities. The biggest competition, the best teamwork. That's not gonna be the case. The study also analyzes the relationship between these results and those obtained in mathematics and reading and the scientific level. You give data and it turns out there's something I don't want to say in this first part: the results in something that's an objective sign of how our system goes. In early school dropout, the percentage of population aged 18 to 24 who haven't completed the secondary level, who don't follow any type of training, turns out that you say we're at the best. As early as 2016, eighteen countries were under 10%, which is a community target; and at European level we were under Malta, Spain and Romania — I am eliminating Galicia, because it is better than the average of Spain — and we have twenty-five countries below. What do you tell us about all this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u106	In the second part I'll talk about what I don't have time now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Replica by the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Rodríguez González. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Oh, sorry. I'm sorry, I'm out of line. The spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil. I'm sorry, I was going fast.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u108	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. I, first of all, want to thank you for your presence to account for the reality or this course end, of what was to make a balance on the reality of the course that we have just left behind. And it will allow me — I have been very attentive to your appearance — that you refer to an expression that you have often referred to, although today in your audience has not mentioned it, and I will tell you that the truth is that you have indeed operated a true silent revolution in the field of education in Galicia, and there is no more to see the speeches of the opposition to be aware that this silent revolution has occurred, because we have passed from an absolutely catastrophic vision — well, it is true that Mrs. Cuña's speech deserves a mention on the part, but we will also do so — to recognize that we are in the face of a system that works, obviously, in front of a system that, like any other, is better and that the work of the Administration is also improving it, but, of course, that permanent vision of the dystopic novel that was intended to move from the education system to society seems to have disappeared from the speeches of the opposition. And that, of course, is an advance, and let me tell you, that it is indeed a true silent revolution, made on the basis of work, made on the basis of dedication and made on the basis of the policies that are articulating on the part of the Greek Government. Because Mr Álvarez said that there was a complaint about how we might come to Parliament to talk about politics. So we're going to talk about politics, we're going to talk about politics because we're in Parliament, in a political representation chamber, and we're going to talk about politics. And to talk about politics as well it is good to remember what was said in appearances like this last year, for example, or, for example, the appearance of this beginning of course, in which one spoke of an authentic face to four localities by reorganisations of centres — let's do politics, let's talk about it — if they took advantage of mobilizations to point out an absolutely catastrophic vision of the reality of the Greek system, if they were to end public education in the localities of Porriño, of Outes, of Ribadavia, of the Bridges... what was that? That's what we said from the Government and what we said from the People's Group: a gross political use of a reality of a reorganization that only met rational criteria, demographic criteria and management criteria responsible for public resources. And the reality is that, today, we do not speak in this House of all that so many pages and pages have allowed us to write in both the Journal of Sessions and the media, because the reality of the educational communities in these localities is the one that arose from the council: absolute normality, there is no problem of coexistence between students, there is no problem in educational institutions and there is no problem in any of these localities with regard to public education. [[Applause]] So let's do politics. Mrs. Cuña, I live there. Yes, yes, there are many, many. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Actually, if you want... well, you can go up here in the second intervention and talk about it at best and then I'll have a chance to answer to see if they want to be political about it. Because you look -- it's because as I was outside I didn't want to make the explicit reference to his speech, but I'm going to do it now -- call me deeply his speech, call me deeply his speech, because he devoted his 10 minutes around 6-7 talking about everything but the education system and the reality of education in Galicia. You've obviously preferred, in the legitimate exercise of your parliamentary freedom, to talk about Gürtel's sentence, you've given them pearls like talking about political system of institutional corruption, etc., trying somehow to move this parliamentary group like a slate, as if they were responsible for some of the issues you're talking about. I understand that you, as a member of a political formation, will not be responsible for the actions of fellow members of your political formation who have firm sentences, for example, for pedesty, assault on the police, for embezzlement, drug trafficking, arms trafficking... I understand that you... I mean, I'm saying that you... I'm saying... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, yes. I'm saying and I repeat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u109	Quiet, everyone, please. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u110	I'm saying and I repeat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u111	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u112	...Mrs. Cuña, to listen to me, I understand that you and no one in your group have any responsibility for the actions of these partymates convicted of a firm sentence. That's what I'm telling you, that neither you nor anyone in your group has any responsibility for the actions of these people. They don't want to blame anyone in this group for the actions of others. Let's be serious for once. [[Applause]] And look, made this little parenthesis, we're going to talk, because I think it's worth talking about the reality of the education system in Galicia, which is what encourages us here today. And in that sense, I think it became very clear that the reality of the Greek education system is a reality that is getting better every day, thanks, as the counselor said, to the effort of the professionals, but obviously also thanks to the measures being implemented from the German Government. And in that sense, I want to put into value and highlight how you're betting on updating learning and empowering foreign languages. The counsellor was signaling it. Obviously, Mrs. Rodil, we have already debated this issue, we know your perspective on the decree of multilingualism, I know, and all of us here are aware that they are constantly asking for their derogation, we also have a very clear position on it, and it is the defense of a decree that has guaranteed today the highest levels of knowledge and competence of the Greek language in Greek society. So, starting from that premise, obviously, the positions are very clear. You want to derogate, we don't. We understand that it contributes to linguistic balance and that it contributes to providing the highest level of competition and knowledge of the English language for the 21st century society. And in that sense, we understand it's a correct policy. He also spoke and spoke to the advisor of the real integration of ICTs in German education. It was a bet from the beginning of the Council, a bet from the new technologies, the integration of new technologies into the education system, and ultimately a bet because the education system responds to the needs of today's society and the needs of society in the future. Finally, we are talking about forecasting, forecasting to face the new challenges, the new challenges that bring us this new 21st century society. Within these new challenges there is, of course, also the impact on scientific competences and the vocations of the STEM, the empowerment of these types of issues, the impulse of vocational training. The data on vocational training I think it's worth pointing out and keeping them in mind, because they talked before there were no data on some issues. I believe that vocational training is a matter to be taken into account and the firm commitment that this government is making for vocational training is to mean and to put into value. We are talking, as Mr Counsellor said, about 51,000 registered today in the Galician community in vocational training and, in addition, the relationship and proportion that exist in the number of registered students with respect to the bachelor's degree, that we are in that 60% of vocational training and 40% of Bachelor's degree, which brings us closer to the objectives of the European Union and which places us at the levels of countries, as the adviser pointed out, like Germany; look! that is what I believe a responsible country. And, in this case, Galicia, as a responsible unit too, has to go and work and do a political work to get closer to those goals that mark the European Union. In a fundamental fact, in the early school dropout, the European Union marked a need in 2020 to be at the threshold of 15%, and today we are already below, in 2018, we are below that threshold of 15%; therefore, we are articulating policies that allow us to converge with what we have been branded from the European Union, which, ultimately, has to mark the course of those we want to live in community, because there are also differences here: there may be political groups that do not care about or dislike the idea of living in a community society where we all live on equality, as it can be the European Union's area, which prefers projects separately. We, of course, have made it clear — and we have always made it clear — that the context of Galicia is the context of an autonomous community within Spain and the context of an autonomous community within Spain, which is in turn a State that is part of the European Union and which, therefore, we must also abide by what we have been marked by from the very beginning. In that sense, Mr. Counsellor also spoke of the fact that we are on a new political stage, if you open up a stage for the future and if you need everyone's cooperation. I sincerely appreciate both the speech of the BNG spokesman and the speech of the spokesman of the Socialist Party, because, of course, they transfer concerns about their perception of the reality of the education system, concerns in which I think that always by the counselor if they have given answers to all the questions that are being raised and by the Council would always be, well by appearance, answering questions and others, providing information on the reality of the Greek education system, and I hope that this tone will be the tone that we now take into account in the appearances in everything that has to do with education, because, as the counselor said, this is a question of everyone and a question for the future of everyone. In that sense, I just congratulate you on that silent revolution that you are operating in the Greek educational system and thanking, as I said before, in particular, the tone of the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block. Tell them that working hand in hand will improve the reality of our education system and, by extension, will improve the reality of our society. The rest of me think you're absolutely out of this kind of debate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u113	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to answer the different questions raised by the different groups; in some cases they coincide, which I will no longer repeat when I talk about each particular group. Starting with the Galician Nationalist Block, you talked about the commitment to equality between people. I'm going to tell you one thing: the People's Party will have no more commitment than the BNG to issues of gender equality, people's rights, freedom, respect and tolerance, but it has no less, neither will it have less; we will have no more but no less. It can't be said that the actions being carried out by this party in education are against or are against or are not in favour of gender equality. Look, I think words are proven by facts and proven by actions. And look, we have the I Equal Plan in educational centers, almost ninety measures, many of them are implementing in a cross-sectional way. There are multiple transversal contents in the educational system. There are actions within the Project Plan in many educational centres, which are promoting respect, tolerance, coexistence, freedom among people. We have specific subjects. You made a miscalculation — it must be letters, like me. He said there were only thirty educational centers in ESO, he said it was a minimum percentage, 2%; he has to do the calculation with regard to ESO centers, with which the percentage of 2% is going to rise to 10%. And now there's also going to be a bachelor's degree of configuration. The centres have the possibility, the freedom and autonomy to choose their free configuration materials and the autonomous administration to put at their disposal the necessary curricula in order to do so. We also have a cycle of higher vocational training geared to the training of equality technicians, which is not available in all autonomous communities; that is, there is a very important job in promoting gender equality. Now, the school, Your Honor, is a part of society. Let's not unload this responsibility at school alone. Families, society, the media, lots of elements that make up society, we have to work together to achieve this and not think that with a subject more or less will we be able to overcome this social and collective scourge that we have in Galicia and Spain. Let's not think that, because if we think about it, I think we'd be pretty wrong. You speak of vocational training, and you talk of results, of employability, of connection with the working world. I think we already gave him data. An average of seventy-six percent of FP students find work in the first few months; in dual FP, almost 100 percent. And you question basic vocational training. I'd ask you to visit some center where you're going and to see some group where there's basic vocational training, and with which only a child or a child of these groups can go ahead with the worthwhile effort, because it not only has a socializing function, not only has an educational function, it has a function of incardinating pupils, children and girls, boys and girls who, if they're not there, could have very difficult vital itineraries in their life, with sociological, social characteristics, even individuals, very difficult, so you shouldn't be questioning an educational strategy that has a fundamental social component. And I insist: you can visit some basic vocational training centers, talk to some teacher and see after you pose. He also talks about multilingualism. It is known that the argument of the Block is that the decree of plurilingualism and plurilingual teaching goes against Greek. That speech was worth it a few years ago, but now it's not worth it. Why isn't it worth it? Because the data certify that young people and girls have never had greater knowledge and skills in the use of the Greek, never; they are the highest. Another thing -- I know this makes the owners of the Block nervous -- is they use it, but the education system has to guarantee the learning of Greek, and they absolutely guarantee it, and we have the best level of knowledge and also use in autonomous communities with their own language. It's official data, it's not invented data. So, about that obsession that you have, the data leave absolutely that speech out of play, because the education system performs in a perfect balance with its function of equipping the skills, abilities, knowledge, students. What we have to do, of course, is to empower it to be used in the contours where -- say -- it's not usually used. And that's where we're working; we're working on a dynamization plan in youth. But you make a very simple and very basic speech: that's right, it's all wrong. But you don't care about families, you don't care about the social environment, you don't take virtually anything into account, and you do one -- let's say -- quite weak literality on the other hand. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, the spokesman for the Ikea catalogue speaks. Home!, I'm actually coming here as a representative of the Council, of a large team both technical and political, that what we want to do -- and I think we have done so -- is an account of what happened in this course, and we've made it completely transparent, sometimes with statistical information, which may seem boring, but I think it's a very positive accountability. And, obviously, you're talking about inertia. Look, this government started working in 2009 and started working and modifying some inertias that have been given in the last few years, and are changing and improving year by year. For example, the failure of school brought a very negative inertia of increasing every year until 2009 and from there it slightly began to fall — slightly the first year — and now we are falling quite strongly and we are in values to ten percentage points of what was in 2009. Of course, inertia changes, but for inertia to remain positive, there is a lot of effort, a lot of planning and a lot of work, not only from the political body of the Council, but from the whole educational community. And I think that's to be at least happy and proud from the integral perspective. And you ask four questions. He's talking about inefficiencies in summons. Hey! I'll tell you what calls are going on, for example in Eurodigital or Eurolingue, are going on many months in advance so you can plan and start the new course. And apart from these strategies, with the actions being developed, they were publicly presented last year, and when we presented them, you said it was propaganda when we announced them, but they're being implemented and they're being carried out. There's a specific question you've mentioned, which is the new computers, the new E-Dixgal equipment, but that's not improvisation at all. They told the educational centers, at this point in the course: look, we're going to propose a change of equipment, of machines, but we're going to do it against the end of the year, because we have to make them. All the educational centers knew before, they knew that around the end of the year they would have a change in their equipment, and the schools, knowing it, asked for it, and gave a qualitative leap, authentically spectacular, with the new equipment. I haven't heard a single criticism, a single criticism of any educational center where the new system is being implemented that way. Well, you're also talking about improvisation, and you want to raise bach's, bach's, which, by the way, you know you don't have the right to school transportation, even if you normally use it, you know you don't have the right to use it even though it's used within general networks, but there's also other services with activities outside school hours, program contracts, which have no problems, because they're organized within centers. And, of course, if Galicia can be satisfied with something, it's to have an educational system where there's equal opportunities regardless of the educational center in which any child or child is enrolled. There is a cross-section and equal opportunity between rural centres and urban centres in order to access all programmes. There was some difficulty, for example, with connectivity at the moment. Today it's not like that anymore, fortunately. But there is practically an equal opportunity for all students, and so we are recognized, and it places Galicia as one of the territories or as the Spanish territory which creates a greater equal opportunity regardless of the territory and even the social group to which each family belongs. I think that's also something that should be valued. And dialogue. Look, one thing is the political debate, which is very positive, where each one proposes the actions, the lines of work that he understands positive to achieve a goal, but I'm sure that the PSOE, at least the PSOE, shares a good education system of quality and equity, but with different paths or actions. And that's good, that's the positive political debate. Another question is the political use that is sometimes made of education. That's tremendous, and tremendously questionable, and we'll always question it. We've seen hundreds of actions where a partisan political use of the whole educational system or part of the educational system is made. And that's what we question, what we criticize and what we say: hey! you don't make partisan politics so clear and so obvious with the student or with the teacher. That is what we question: political use, not political debate or political dialogue, which at no time we understand that it should not be done; on the contrary, it is good that it should be done, it is positive that it should be done, but not into the partisan use. Propaganda. You say that meetings, activities, events, where students essentially expose their projects, defend their projects, for example in StimulArte or for example in FP Innova, are propaganda — I guess from their words. For the truth is that we understand this is a fundamental action, on two issues: to encourage the participation of schools, teachers and students, and also to encourage motivation, because the exposure in this case of projects by students clearly motivates students, and motivation is also a very important gasoline for the education engine. And I don't think that's supposed to happen, in any case, as propaganda. What if and is a positive aspect, which speaks well of an educational system? Yes, because it's about motivated students, motivated teachers, project work, initiatives, innovation. But that's one question and another question is to say that it's pure propaganda. Another question you're asking is the retirement of teachers. Every year, in recent years, nine hundred thousand have been retired, about eight hundred and many, nine hundred thousand, exercising a right. And from there you try to make an axiom: as there are early retirements, the teacher is not motivated. I'm going to tell you: there are a lot of teachers who have to retire with the age of regulation -- to understand us -- and it's hard for them to leave, many of them, eh!, and we could talk about some very significant example in the Greek education system. I don't think we can establish a correlation in that field. And then, if I may, he fell into his own argumental trap. And your own argumental trap is to say that more resources is equal to better results. If something has shown us the economic crisis in recent years is that it's not so much resources that you have for a public service, but the use of these resources within the public service. For example, the Basque Country has the highest student investment in Spain and has been in several subsequent years by reducing its level of quality and results in PISA reports, for example. And we could talk about a lot of examples. That axiom is an absolutely perverse axiom, because we also show in Galicia that, having less resources than when the Socialist Party managed them, at the time of the Bipartite, we had better results, both in quality and equity. With which, if I may, you have fallen into your own trap. And, Mrs Cuña, you asked me -- I suppose rhetorically -- to pass the text of my intervention to you before you did. And I'll think about it. And you know why I'm gonna think about it? Because if I pass it, maybe you're talking to the case and you know you're coming here, because you've come here to talk about everything but education. He spoke of Gürtel and spoke of LOMCE, and it's over; of LOMCE already because it's an already expired speech, by the way. I mean, I think next time we'll have to give you the speech so you can at least focus on what you have to focus on, because if you don't, we don't know the truth we're talking about. [[Applause]] And of course, if you understand that the main problem with the Greek education system is that the Greek students don't read Gürtel's sentence, I think we're doing well; it's a good indicator. I think that in Galicia the Greek education system is doing well, I think it's a great achievement for him to have him read sentences. And of course, I don't know what the game is, I don't know, and maybe even if I ask him, it's hard for me to know, because, between that tide, I don't know what party it is. But look, there are some people who do and do what they do, but that's why you can't do a generalization, because, if you don't, when they do it to you, you get angry, and I think that doesn't make sense, that doesn't make any sense. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u115	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u116	I'll tell you anecdote. Look, at one moment a citizen, a neighbor of mine, sold a machine to a neighbor, and his neighbor broke the machine, and went to where he sold it and caught a sort of machine whip, blew and put it back and worked the machine; and he got it -- imagine -- 25 pesetas; and the initial user got pissed: how do you charge me 25 pesetas for blowing? And he said, it's not the same blow you can blow. And you don't know how to blow, because you really come here to pose and defend a political discourse that doesn't make any sense. [[Murmurs.]] In a balanced debate of education that you speak of more than 50% in your speech in Gürtel's judgment makes no sense, because the contempt for you as a spokesman, the despicable absolutely as a spokesman, because it seems you have no interest or skills to talk about what we've been talking about here, which is education, multilingualism, we've come to talk about FP, we've come to talk about the use of Greek in school, we've come to talk about a lot of things, and you tell us about Gürtel. Well, keep on speaking; if it is your speech and it seems good to you, for all agree, all agree. [[Murmurs.]] And look, a matter of his intervention that I didn't want to let go of. You tell us here if we're going to comply with the law. Don't doubt it, don't doubt it. I would also ask you, on many occasions, when you urge them not to comply with the law, for example when you urge them not to comply with the diagnostic evaluations. All right! We're going to comply with the law. We will defend, where we have to defend, our political proposals, without doubt, do not doubt. Why? Because we understand they're good. And why? Because they have good results. Where? In the educational system, both in quality and equity. But you don't understand or you don't think this political formation or this government somehow will despise the law, as if some do when it doesn't suit you. And look -- let's finish it -- we think we have a good education system, if we think about it, that we've made a lot of progress, that there's a lot to do, but if we think about it, and we don't have any complex to publicly admit, that we have an educational system that has improved significantly in both quality and equity. You said a date of school dropout, and mix. And that's why I'm saying that if you'd given more to educational and less to other kinds of matters, you'd realize that you've been wrong. You spoke here about generic school dropout data, but you used those from Spain, you didn't use the Greeks. You say we have more than Romania. Spain, yes. But you also have to see autonomous communities, and when you see autonomous communities, you will see the differential that exists, for example, between Galicia and other autonomous communities where you rule historically on the left and where you are direct partners or partners. And it compares to where there's most school failure: where you rule or where you rule, for example in Galicia, the People's Party for so many years, with an inertia of progressive reduction from 2009 to today. With which, I think that collectively we are, and I'm personally, both in the personal facet and in the institutional, I'm proud, we're proud of the good education system in Galicia, and that's not to be presumed here. That's not it. That is to give explicit and clear recognition to the whole of Greek society, through this House, of the work that teachers, inspectors, union forces, families, too the Administration, and that we all do to collectively improve something that is fundamental to the future of the country as education is. I believe that, in the pursuit of political criticism, some questions and criticisms of the educational system that does not deserve them at any time, and all — I insist — should be proud and satisfied with some dynamics that the Greek education system has, because they are good for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u117	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u118	Thank you, President. I'm not going to invest more than half a thousandth of a second in the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil, because he was bringing a speech so canned, so canned, so prefabricated that he made opposition from the opposition, and also in 2017. It's been a year, we're in a debate, I'd ask you if you can focus at least on the issues we're talking about, if you want to talk about it, or talk about something else, but really, it evolves, it evolves, because we're in 2018. [[Applause]] We have raised very specific questions, very specific questions, given that time is very limited. We haven't met any of them, because to me a lot of data together, a lot of cross-sectional measures, they're not specific data. Not an answer to what I asked him. I asked him: how much budget did you go to the development and application of the I Equality Plan? How much budget in 2017-2018? What concrete measures? How many training courses are directed at teachers? How many teachers did you participate in these training courses? With what themes? How many educational and educational materials are being revised and adapted for the introduction of the gender perspective? Specific measures. I haven't talked about if it's too much or if it's too little. I have to evaluate the policies that you develop. It's part of the control function that we have the forces of opposition. I believe that not a small excuse, a manifest accusation, but everyone does what he wants in his replica shift. We want you to answer, if you have the right, in that will of evaluation, if it seems to you that thirty centres and eight hundred students in all the centers and students of our country with a matter of free configuration, therefore also optional for the student's whole, will be the star measure, as it seems you intend to present, to fight the Vimbians — I insist — in these matters that support a patriarchal and macho society. We want to see at least one third of the involvement and obsession that you have with other issues in the development of that I Equality Plan and the concrete actions that it collects. Because we don't see him. We see that everything lies in the degree of volunteering that the teacher has, the degree of sensitivity and the degree of involvement that the teacher has, and things should not fall within the individual volunteerism of each person. There must be strategic planning by the German Government. And this should be a central issue, a central question if we want to start working in a fair and just society, which guarantees and respects human rights for half the population, which we are women, and which, as we see every day, are neither respected nor guaranteed. I'll leave you with those questions that I asked in my first speech, which I did with regard to vocational training. I know perfectly well what the situation is with the people who are in basic vocational training. So we ask you here, so we ask you here what the results are. And you didn't say it again. I think it's not that complex, is that you have to have them: they're enrolled from year to year for another number of students, how many get first and enroll in the second course?, how many leave with the certificate and with the degree and how many join the labour market and under what conditions? Because, supposedly, the objective of basic vocational training was to combat school dropout. We want to know exactly what are the conditions in which people who are enrolled in basic vocational training are incorporated into the labour market and into society. Diagnosis, evaluation of what is being done. I think it's nice that they come here and tell us what they're going to do, but we want you to look back from an analytical perspective, that we evaluate what the results are, because it will be the way to introduce the corrective mechanisms that correspond, if necessary. And the same in multilingualism. I don't care about myself. I don't care about the Galician Nationalist Block. Now, I think I read the statements of the president of the Council of Culture and the report of the Academy, which are statutory institutions, who laugh and take their hair off! They really want us to live in parallel reality. [[Applause]] If the data is so good, I don't know why we've been in BNG for sixteen months, six months! waiting for that data. If there's an evaluation every time you finish a school course, you'll have a report, which won't be so complex as to enter through the doors of this House. And I insist: that it is not, that it is not guaranteed, that it is neither guaranteed nor fulfilled by the obligation and the legal mandate of the Government of Greece not only that they acquire linguistic competences in Greek, but that they progress in the process of normalization of uses, precisely in the year, by the fact that thirty-five of the adoption, unanimously, of the Law of Linguistic Standardization. And one last question — it takes time — because you have made a lot of emphasis on your first intervention, a lot, on the role of the professor in this country. I also want to join the gratitude of the Galician Nationalist Block for its efforts. But things can't be like that. You can't go back to volunteering, over and over the efforts of teaching staff to ensure fair teaching, inclusive teaching and quality teaching. There's a sectoral negotiating table on the working conditions of the teaching staff. You wanted to limit absolutely and reduce the minimum expression and only to wage, excluding from the debate issues that for us are absolutely and closely related to the quality of education and improving the conditions in which a public service is provided which is fundamental. We continue to advocate: we have to reduce the ratios, we have to get back the educational schedule — which you have changed during the economic crisis — but we have to try to strengthen not, but to guarantee staff special educational needs to meet and meet all the needs of the student. Labour rights, ultimately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u120	...that you exclude from the debate and that you are — and I insist very much on this — closely linked to the provision of a quality service and, of course, equitable, that really serves to advance the whole of the Greek society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, first of all, to express my thanks to the figure of Mr. President for the solar trapping we enjoy, which is consistent with the concern about the cutaneous injuries that he has transferred to us at the last plenary session. We particularly thank you from that section of the bench that put us in a shadow zone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u123	Tomorrow the melanomas come. I also recommend to everyone tomorrow that we go precisely against the harmful effects of the sun. There's an acknowledgement. They all have that at their disposal tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u124	Thank you. Mr. Fernández Gil, just a couple of observations. Although Mrs Rodil made a clear reference to what we were talking about, not the past course, it will allow me to tell you that the opposition is — as you know perfectly well, and you are in particular — by 34 Members. I should like to remind you, too, that the mobilizations of the citizenship of Ribadavia, The Bridges, the Outes Mountains and the Porriño were played by thousands of women and men, thousands of mothers and parents, those you just raised to the category of "boroughs", since they were left to manipulate by 34 people nothing more. And it will also allow me — and I say with all due respect — that, as a good parliamentarian, a great MP, you have fallen into a barrage without a comparison — and Mrs Cuña will be defended at the moment. But look, talking about pedesty, talking about trafficking in weapons, talking about drug trafficking, it's not something that's improvised. I, of course, would be unable to say that people of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, of the Marea, of the Bloc, of any political formation, are involved in such crimes. You, as you can see, one of two: either it has very internalized or it has been prepared, and that's a hard bassity to equal. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Going to the counsellor's intervention, he's gonna let me... somebody stop, fuck! Rajoy said. [[Applause]] I don't suppose that will prevent me in Parliament either, do I? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Counselor, you talked about inertia. We're not going to define inertia here from a physical point of view. But you talked about something that is not responsible for your government action, the People's Party in particular, because at that time you weren't the branch advisor. You said there was a school failure that started a reduction trend from the year 2009. But you forget two things: the first of them is that this reduction has taken place throughout the state, not only in Galicia; and, secondly, that it has an absolutely direct link to the fact that there is not enough demand in the labour market, there is a return to the education system to prepare itself. Tell the whole truth! It's okay! It's not the sole merit of the People's Party. With regard to E-Dixgal, I'm not going to talk about any particular center, but since, as I'm sure you, have contact with people who work every day in the education system, it's not true that they knew they were going to have an important delay in the E-Dixgal equipment supply; it's not true. In addition, this same week, they were produced in many claudio centers where misinformation about the implications of the program was the dominant element, they didn't know that they were half of the things. You didn't answer me from the Bachelor of Excellence. He said an obvious thing that we all know, or at least a part of the Members and Members who are here that we devote ourselves directly to teaching. Of course, the undergraduate student is postobrigatory and does not have free school transport! But, in fact, I do have the same as the student of vocational training. So that's not an argument: because it's not mandatory, nothing happens if you don't get it. No, no, no, no. It breaks the principle of equality, because there's going to be students who won't be able to take that extra bachelor's degree of excellence because they don't have school transportation. That's the reality. You were talking about it's not propaganda, it's motivation. Well, that's not just gasoline for the teaching sector, but it's gasoline for the government. The early retirement — it has gone very fast — will allow me the President half a minute longer — is not an axiom that this Member has invented, is an indicator that uses the sectoral teaching organisations. The reality is they retire because there's a high degree of dissatisfaction. And to finish, you were talking about falling into my own trap. Look, it's not true. You say more resources are no better results, because you prove otherwise. But what you've done is you have more resources; in fact, the education system has less rights resources. Why? Because they increased the hours to the teacher and did something that was not in the regulations, which is that repeaters didn't count for ratio determination purposes, becoming part of a sort of educational ether. And, to finish with, since you've commented on the whipstick and know where to blow or how to blow, you'll also allow me to make a little stick that's totally applicable to your resource computing technology. And it was said that, at the time of Franco, as you couldn't raise the price of kilograms of bread, you dropped the kilograms to 800 grams. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u125	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u126	Well, I guess it's logical that you don't like me talking about institutional corruption, but it's done. It's not something past, it's something that's happening and there's a lot left to go on. It's not the same institutional corruption of a party that is illegally funded with money from all those isolated cases, which I swear to you I don't know. I'm from In Marea, it seems a lie!, we've been almost two years and many Members still don't know what we're called, it's incredible! Another suspension in any revalide, really. And then you set the example of a machine; I imagine you would think of a washing machine, because they have a lot to wash. And from the other charges I'll try to inform myself. I can't believe they're from our political group right now. And if they are, they have to prove it, because these are very serious charges. I'll talk about teaching. Of course I talked about teaching at 100% of my exhibition! Of course it is to speak of teaching to set as an example a comment of text that could be any, what happens is that, that, the lie doesn't reach the old lady, Counselor. You talk about equality, all right, let's talk about equality. They eliminate preference in equal education to fund agreed schools. They shielded the grants to educational centres that segregate by sex. It's about equality! The 58 concerts signed by the board that segregate children and girls also spread until August 31, 2023; even if I change the law, it doesn't matter, they're shielded; that's indeed armored. Equanimity and equality. Unbelievable! He has no credibility. With the law before equality was a criterion for assigning concerts. They've increased. You know how much? 'cause you don't give any data. Do you know how much aid and concerts have increased since 2009? 72.5%. It's incredible! You tell us, please, why the Education Council is the third in budgets of all the boards. Tell us how much they invest in proportion to other countries, such as Portugal. Portugal has added — what we have in mind, it is a very close country — to subsidise especially the public and to reduce the private sector. But you have an extraordinary privatization voracity. Of course it's a model, that yes to us is an outdated model. And I will pass out if you intend to insult me by saying I'm out of line, but don't talk to me in pesetas, please! What equality policy and what teaching is he talking about? The decree. Decree-making is not just a matter of concern to the Galician Nationalist Block, it is a matter of concern to the whole of Galician society. And I'm going to tell you a number of very authorized phrases: there's no place to take it, it's rancio, it's a vile defeat, neither attend the dictates of the Academy or the Council of Culture, shame, incoherence... They're authorized opinions. Aberration, which contravenes the necessary protection of the language itself set out in the Linguistic Standardization Act of 1983. Buy the law! He says they comply with the law, then they comply with the Law of Standardization! Humiliating project, threatening freedom, trying to disconnect necessity, backwardness, cohesion versus confrontation, against language... And we have to say one thing: the end of the 19th century, 90% of single-language Greek speakers in this community. At this point, the English language is the only one that loses speakers throughout the state, and this has to do with its cuts. Well, there's a lot I mean, and I haven't got much time. And it's not because I didn't want to talk about education, I'm a teacher, I've been teaching for 40 years, and I think I've supported my intervention here. And the disqualifications that they disqualify are yours. You give data and you'll see that for early abandonment and absenteeism only measures were used in 31 centers; this is on your page; 31 centers means that 1,069 centers in Galicia didn't have this, and it's on your page... look! [[Explained words not perceived]] Basic vocational training, let's go. We know what basic vocational training is, a makeup patch -- they're entitled but they don't have better training -- the data of failure. Indeed, it is an absolute failure. Talk to the teachers, listen to the teachers, listen to the educational community, because I think you need to go to school. To finish, we are always announced measures for next courses. Please tell me. He's talking about reorganisation of centers. He could also talk about Ponte Caldelas, who is also complaining about the cuts. They delete centers. And it's not true that there are good budgets for dining rooms. And school transportation is marking even ongoing days; there are people, schools who are claiming a continuous day and who are the carriers; what is it? Please tell me. He spoke of two centers: Soutomairo and Culleredo, as centres that were to be reorganized. By law, the centres assigned to enroll in the next course are given priority. Question: Will you allow the schooling of 12 Culleredo students from registered centres, Sofia Casanova and Isaac Díaz Pardo at the IES Trabe? And I also ask: will they create the zoning map?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u128	I'd have a lot more questions, but I think I'm out in time. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u130	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all of you again. Well, Mrs. Rodil, you started your speech by saying or making a reference to what I was talking about earlier in my speech, by saying that you were bringing a canned speech, a prefabricated speech, anchored in the past. He just failed to add that it was a speech that sounded like BNG; then, the theme would become perfect. Prefabricated and canned, like BNG. [[Applause]] Look at this. I know it's hard for you to understand that in a political discourse there is coherence. I know it's complex, I know it's a complex matter! But when I make a reference to the debates that were raised in this House in the past, it's because this political group and this government maintain coherence in the discourse they had in the past, in the speech of the present and that it will also be their political discourse of the future, because we are a political force characterized by coherence. By the way, a great example of political coherence was given to him yesterday, the highest responsibility for the Government of Greece was a great example of what coherence was in politics yesterday. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Álvarez, I didn't mention the word "borrego" in my intervention, but you do. He saw, somehow, insinuating, saying how we treated the people who were mobilized at that time or who we wanted to treat him like a douche bag. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, no, obviously not. In addition, I tell you, in the specific case of Ribadavia — which affects me — there are many cases where they mobilized on their neighbouring day, probably, and I assure you that I have the utmost respect for them. But do you know the difference between the political forces on this side of the parliamentary arch and this political force? There was a fundamental difference: that while this political force has devoted itself to informing and reassuring the educational community, you have dedicated yourself to disinformationing and confusing yourself to generate more problems in that educational community. That's the difference in action, which, of course, refers again to coherence. We always act in coherence and our work as public representatives is to inform and reassure society. And I'm telling you more: that at the end of your argument, if you tell us that we want to treat those who understand that they mobilized themselves because they didn't think like us, by saying it somehow, that it comes to be the argument that you used — you said it, it's collected perfectly – I just want to stretch your argument — I'm going to understand it perfectly — to the point that, if you understand that what you said is true, I can also understand that you consider that all of them, a vast majority in Galicia, who give their electoral support to the People's Party are boregos, because they don't do what you or don't defend what you say. Look, those arguments I know you don't think so, I know you don't think so, and that's why I'm upset somehow that they use those demagogic arguments that we all know they don't lead anywhere. Let's talk about what we're talking about, let's talk about education. And then you would make a reference to the lowness of my speech as well. No, no, look, I'm telling you the same thing again: coherence, coherence. What I was saying earlier is that, in the same way that I consider that no person on this side of the parliamentary arch is responsible for criminal acts that commit others, the same is true of those groups who are not responsible for criminal acts that commit others. That's absolute coherence. And that's why, if you understand it as a lowness, there you are, but I already tell you: absolute coherence. Look, Mrs. Cuña, you have criticized the subject of educational concerts. This is also a repeated debate in this House. We are certainly very clear that one of the fundamental pillars of the education system is freedom of teaching, and we will always defend it at all times, and in order to guarantee freedom we must have a different educational offer. That's the only formula for guaranteeing freedom: you have to have a different educational offer. But you're talking about equality and equity. Look, I'm going to give you two data, because you were clearly criticized in your speeches. Equity and inclusion is to ensure free school transport for about 90,000 students and to sign, in addition, agreements with entities to facilitate the transport service to pupils and students with specific educational needs. That's working for equity and equality in the education system. Because you know that there is no greater fairness in the education system than to guarantee everyone the same possibilities, for example through public transport. Equity and inclusion — and we have discussed it on many occasions too — is to provide other complementary services, such as the dining room service, that you have repeatedly presented initiatives seeking their universality and we stand for a criterion based on family income payment, because I have already said it on other occasions in this House: it seems a lie that we have to speak to the left parties on which the redistribution consists: redistribution is that whoever has the economic capacity to support the service makes it easier for others to enjoy it, and the Administration has to make it easier for others to enjoy a free service. That's reality and how we understand redistribution. Finally — and I am finished, President — the question raised here today was the reality of the Greek education system. It became perfectly clear, in the light of the counsellor's appearance, that the Greek education system is a system that is well established in the present and with a lot of projection for the future, which responds to the needs of our society, which obviously has to follow the path of improvement in which it has been channelled in recent years, and to that end we encourage it, Counsellor, to continue to develop these policies that have given good results, that obviously there are issues that must be improved and that we know and are aware of the clear commitment of the Greek Government to improve them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u131	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Close of attendance, councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is that sometimes you have to agree with each other, because when we provide specific and specific data the Socialist Party spokesman tells us that this is the Ikea catalogue and then, as we don't provide the data you want to hear, the Block spokesman tells us that we don't give specific data. Either we do one thing or we do another, but we both can't be happy, it's going to be very hard. And in addition, in the specific case of Mrs Rodil's questions, I would say that the answer you have, because they were data placed on the table in Commission 4a; the data you demand have been heard in Commission 4a. With which, really, it doesn't make much sense that constant repetition. And I'll go back to what I told you at first. Look, the People's Party has at least the same thing, I don't say it has any more, but at least the same sensitivity as gender equality, equality of human rights, freedom, respect, tolerance, which are values we share. And don't you think you've got more than us, don't think, because you'd be wrong. We have exactly the same values and, at least, in the field of gender equality we have demonstrated it, as I have said, with facts. The truth is you said that I laughed in my intervention. I've never done it or wanted to do it and I haven't had anybody's hair. You put on the table some data, some arguments, I shake them, you may like it or you don't like it, but, in any case, you can't say that I do it or that I take anybody's hair or that I laugh at anyone's, at no time. I can't accept it; you will understand that I can't accept it in any way. As for the Socialist Party, we kept talking, he kept talking about school failure. Home!, of course it's fallen at all, but it's also true that with the Socialist Party in the Greek education system it went up more than ever and with the People's Party we were able to progressively reduce it by 10 percentage points. You took a school failure of around 20% and went up to 26% in four years, in four years; that was your inertia. Our inertia is different. I make a description of the facts, I don't value them. It's a purely descriptive thing, which coincides with the rise of failure with the Socialist Party and the fall with the People's Party. Home!, from there you can interpret, but these are absolutely descriptive data. And also, Mr. Álvarez, you know that educational centers generally work and organize themselves very well. I'm sure no educational center will lose to start the bachelor's degree of excellence for school transportation. And you too are, I'm sure, because you know how educational centers work, how they can be organized, and you know that that hypothesis is practically impossible to give. You'll see there won't be any trouble. And, Mrs. Chao... Sorry, Cuña, sorry. Mrs. Cuña, I'm sorry. I used to be Mrs Chao's spokesman, I'm confused, I apologize, Mrs Chao. Sorry, Cuña, Cuña, I was confused again. I asked him which match he was, rhetorically. [[Murmurs.]] You said it was from En Marea. Okay, well, we're fine. You have to understand that sometimes those who aren't every day fixing -- say -- in the nebula we don't know. I apologize for not knowing what political party it is, but understand that those who aren't on the break-up side sometimes it costs us to know, a lot of work. In any case, that's difficult for us. And you were talking about respect for the law. And I also tell you that you must respect the law and the legal frameworks — they like us or not —. And in the case of teaching there are legal frameworks, and even in some cases there are judgments from the highest courts about what you call differentiated education, what you say about differentiated education. With a legal framework established, with a judgement from the highest courts, wouldn't you fulfill the legal mandate you have if you had government responsibilities or simply wouldn't cover it, would you look somewhere else and you were? Do you not believe, either, that you do not believe in the fulfilment of legality with respect to the freedom of families? I can understand that you or perhaps I don't like that specific teaching mode, but if it's legal and it's protected by all legal frameworks, how can an administration somehow counteract that freedom? This is a basic approach that differentiates other political formations: those who understand that the particular ideological vision is above the legal frameworks and does not respect the freedom of others who think differently. Because that's not what we're going to do or do. There's a legal framework, we can either like it or not, and we do. There's a firm judgment from the highest courts that endorses that legal framework and we respect it. That is a very important principle — I believe — on this issue we are always talking about, and it is an old, old, almost old-fashioned debate. I mean, there's a legal framework, it's done. [[Murmurs.]] You guys now have a chance to change the legal framework, change it. He can do it, he can change it. At that moment, the Galician Union, as an institution and as an organization that respects the legal framework, will change its way of proceeding in this area, do not doubt it. Now, while it exists, you don't restrict people's freedom to choose freely. And I too regret, Mrs. Cuña, with regret, the disregard you have cast here against the basic FP. I insist: I regret this lack of respect for the teacher and the student, in situations that are often difficult in these areas. And you also pose a series of... give us data on issues that promote equity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to give you one, for school transportation; or two, I'm also going to give you a dining room. School transport. In high school, for example. In Galicia 52% of high school students in Galicia have absolutely free school transportation. Do you know what percentage is in Spain? Eighteen percent. In primary school, do you know the level of students with school transportation? [[Murmurs.]] 41%. Do you know how much it is in the rest of Spain? Eight percent. From there, you can talk about what you want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know -- that this has nothing to do with the dispersion or the geographic situation -- what is the number of educational centers that have a school dining room in Galicia? Do you know -- what that doesn't have to do with the dispersion -- the number of educational centers that have a dining room in Galicia? 75%. What is it in Spain? An absolutely much lower number. Indeed, there is a very strong effort to facilitate equal opportunities. And to finish, one last reflection. From Galicia we offer a differentiated educational model that has already aroused the interest of other autonomous communities and that can serve to meet the challenges that the 21st century presents for our boys and girls. I insist, I will always insist, as long as I have the opportunity and feel it like this, that Galicia may be proud and the Greeks can be proud of having a good education system. And when I say a good education system, I mean the whole thing: teachers, families, union organizations, administration, etc. And look, it's not about falling into self-comprehensiveness, nor about generating false expectations. After all, there's a lot of work to do. The Education Administration, the Galician Union, the Council has our share of responsibility, proposing and making strategies, which, by the way, are attractive to educational centres and teachers and which contribute to modernizing, innovating, improving the education system. But that cannot be done without the constant and absolutely loyal and constructive involvement of the teacher. And that's what we're going to do. We will continue to manage the reality we have, with realism and consolidate the good we already have and drive new measures and also correct those weaknesses we have. So, to some extent, I go back to what I said before and repeat: Galicia has a good education system in equity, in quality, evaluated by results, by the way, well above the average of what would hypothetically correspond to it according to the level of income, something that is fundamental. That means there's a political and development action that is above what could be thought of based on the level of income in this territory. There are autonomous communities that have more economic resources or that devote more economic resources to education and have worse results in quality and equity. That means politics are not really focused. It's not the case in this Galician case. [[Murmurs.]] And what we want in some way is to offer Galicia and the Greeks a free education, something very important, free, fair, efficient and quality, because we're doing it. It is being well accepted by the educational community of Galicia and has good comparative results. And that, ladies and gentlemen, humbly, we saw him introduce and we came to say that Galicia, in that sense, may be proud of having a good education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u133	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the precarious situation of the labour market in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u134	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u135	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u136	Good morning. Thank you, President. It makes a lot of effort the People's Party to convert this Parliament as if it were something isolated from what's going on out there. I've been taught since childhood that you can't put doors in the field or try to cover the moon with your finger. And he tried to numb the People's Party this Parliament so that we didn't reflect what's going on out there, what's going on with the People's Party and its reality of years of practice and use the Public Administration and the resources of citizens for their own use. The People's Party has tried to see the reality of a Gürtel ruling — where it is clearly said that the People's Party and the Correa group have created in parallel a genuine and effective system of corruption — in this Parliament it is not reflected, that this reality should not be reflected. And they came here systematically, Members and Members of the People's Party to tell us that they were sorry, and they apologized for the isolated cases they were able to pass through the People's Party, as if the army of isolated cases could be the object of an apology. And at this moment the People's Party has on the table a sentence that confirms the over-costs and the collection of money in "b" of a mayor of the People's Party, the mayor of Sanxenxo, Telmo Martín, who collected people who wanted access to a housing of public protection; people, in many cases, humble. There's a judgement by the High Court of Justice condemning these overruns in firm terms. And we're waiting for the People's Party, so agile, so diligent, when it comes to others -- it sees the ball in others and runs fast to ask for resignation, to get out in the media to ask for resignation, and we're waiting for that regeneration of the People's Party -- it asks for the resignation of its mayor of Sanxexo. There have already been several Members and Members here, and they have had many occasions these days to be in the media, and we have not seen this regeneration begin by requesting the resignation of their mayor of the People's Party for charging over costs to humble families and money in "b" — already declared by a court—. We're wondering if you're gonna keep protecting a mayor who, through his company, got...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u137	Working precariousness, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u138	...overcosts in "b", already declared by a court...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u139	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u140	...and if at some point they'll stop seeing isolated cases and start practicing what they ask others to do, to practice it in themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u141	That's the point, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u142	Yes, the question is that regeneration begins by practicing, not predicting, practicing. And we're talking about a practical case, a practical case of a mayor of the doomed People's Party because his company collected, with money in "b", overcosts to families who wanted access to a housing. And the decisions taken since the beginning of the economic crisis have proved to be a real robbery, a looting of the working class, the whole of the Greek people. Economic recovery, from which propaganda is made daily, does not exist. It's only for those who have the most, who increase their wealth on account of general impoverishment. In the past full we questioned the Economic and Employment Adviser regarding the employment situation in Galicia and the precarious labour market data, which say that in Galicia, since the return of Nuñez Feixóo to the Government of Greece, there are 25,000 people stopped more than in 2009; that there are 120,000 people working less; that there are 161.200 active young people less, between 16 and 34 years old, in Galicia, a real drama; that 100,000 young people and girls had to emigrate and leave Galicia; that in Galicia we charge 2,000 euros less than the average in the state — that average, because women earn 5,000 euros less on average — that only increase the wages of those who earn the most and that employment only increases in the most precarious situations. And it turns out we didn't get any answers from the Economic Counsellor. And we asked him about a fact, the truth, tremendously worrying. Because corruption, apart from putting your hand in the box, aside from Gürtel's rulings, is to use the DOG not to benefit the population, the people to whom the Government's action has to go, but to use the DOG not to do so. And it is that, after having considered in the budgets of the Union, from 2009 to 2017, a number of quantities, the Government of Greece, in parts aimed at improving and promoting employability, intermediation and employment, promoting employment, vocational training for the unemployed, improving employment qualifications, improving the organization and administration of labour relations, promoting the social economy — i.e., in areas aimed at improving the lives of men and women, young people and young people in a situation of greater precariousness and unemployment in Galicia — it has left us without executing EUR 1 billion, which is a quantity that seems really obscene to us by the Government of Greece, which should be concerned and occupied with improving the situation of all these people. Well, far from doing so, he was totally careless and stopped running all those matches despite those figures I'm referring to. What leaves that in evidence is an indolence on the part of the Government in the face of this emergency situation of many men and women in Galicia in the face of this real emergency situation, aggravated by that inaction of the People's Party Government, which, if it is true that it handles the scenery very well, handles its presence in the media very well, handles affectivity very well, manages very well even that sort of crying, that complaint by Galicia. But reality is a situation of indolence, of the role of servants of the Government of Galicia, of inability to have any initiative in favour of Galicia's economic and social development, which gives some data, of course, that are not presentable anywhere, and that, of course, from the point of view of the BNG, needs to be reversed. Because behind the figures is the situation, for example, like that of Manuel or Lucas, which are two examples of the media. Manuel is 60 years old. He's a person who's always tried to reinvent himself. He was administrative, he ran out of work, he became autonomous and closed his business when he was 50 years old. He was trained as a cook, and eventually he found that restaurants are difficult to hire after he was 45 years old. What to do? Keep looking for a job. Since he was homeless and had nothing, he had to put up an ad in which he said he worked for free. The idea was to work 40 hours free of charge and pay him only for the extras. Now he's got a job with accommodation, maintenance and a hundred euros a week's income. I share the floor with his workmates and he recognizes that, as he needs money, he has no choice but to swallow.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u143	There's a lot of noise. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u144	Lucas is much younger. He needs to work because the 195-euro orphanage isn't enough for him to live. He has several ads on job search portals. He pays more money to make them stand out, and his sounds are from the first ads we see. He offers to work for free because he wants to have a chance to have a chance. In other words, he wants employers to see that he really needs and wants to work. Another case: he's fifty years old, he's sweet, he's divorced and he's got two kids. You have to pay the pension, you need to work anyway. He works 18 hours for 50 euros a day. He offers the salary to those who make a contract because he's tired of working in black. These are the realities of the labour market that they're trying to deny. So the BNG today presents this motion in which we ask the Government of Greece to put in place some measures to reverse this reality from the labour market that I have just described, and to present to Parliament a detailed report on the justification and the reasons for the lack of budgetary execution accumulated during the successive budget years 2009-2017, which accumulate EUR 1 billion in programs like those I related before and with the consequences for the working class in Greece to which these EUR 1 billion had to go. And a second part is to urge the Spanish Government to derogate from the labour reforms that are described in writing and to adopt and immediately apply the increase in the minimum interprofessional wage to 60% of the average wage, as laid down in the European Social Charter. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u146	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I'm going to give IGE data, because we're always criticized for not being strict. Galicia now has 25,400 unemployed more than in May 2009. Affiliates to Social Security: 34,000 less affiliates since the first quarter of 2009 compared to this year. Long-term unemployment: twice as long-term unemployed as in May 2009. Unemployment rate among young people between 20 and 24 years of age: five points higher than in 2009; from the ages between 16 and 19 years of age it goes up to the 12 points more. We have the fourth lowest salary in all of Spain, a 30% pay gap between men and women, which is seven points higher than the state average. And by the way, all that with the Law of Equality at Work set in motion by Mr. Touriño, who continues to be put in a drawer. There are over 120,000 poor workers in this country. There are these poor workers and workers while the People's Party, the party condemned for corruption, fattened its box "b" by stealing from the citizenry, undermining the public era. Because, gentlemen, with greater corruption, less public investment; and the less public investment, the greater anemic state of the labour market itself, a labour market that is governed by precariousness, instability and temporality, as I told them. Because, in addition to the economic crisis and the policies put in place by the People's Party, the instruments of job creation — and it has already been said here — are not working properly. You have repeatedly denounced my companion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. The degree of execution of budgets in an important programme — I was bound by it — is that of promoting employment and labour market institutions, the degree of execution of 2017, according to the Galician Union itself, is 61.4%, the lowest of all services of the autonomous administration. The truth is, Mrs Prado Cores, that it is not enough to ensure that 100 percent of the budgets are carried out, other measures have to be taken that have already announced the new Government of Spain, because in recent years much damage has been done to collective bargaining, because this increase in temporality and wage devaluation has also caused problems in the pension system itself and also in the treasury of Social Security. We tabled an amendment in which there is a mistake, and I want to apologize to your lordships and at the same time thank the House services for the correction they made. Because, as you know, unions and employers have been trying to reach an agreement for that salary raise for more than nine months, and, above all, for that raise of the minimum wage; contacts that were blocked — and, in fact, the unions themselves manifested themselves last May 22 in front of all the headquarters of the employer throughout Spain—. And why were they locked up? They were blocked because there was a government, the Government of the People's Party, which, instead of acting as a catalyst for agreements, was blocking the demands that were presented by the unions; negotiations — which we welcomed from here — that were reactivated on the same day that came out before the motion of censure. It's on the table right now a wage pre-agreement that would talk about a rise in the minimum inter-branch salary of up to EUR 1,000 in 14 payments. This would be surpassed by your proposal, Mrs. Prado Cores, it would be above what is being demanded in more than 200 euros. We like to respect dialogue; a dialogue, gentlemen, that starts to flow. It begins to flow, since the change of government, also in the field of employment. The government has already announced that it will put an order on many of the issues that have so far been dismantled, that it will put in place and will push forward a new Staff of the workers who put it in the 21st century and that it will not continue anchored in the past. We would like to, Mrs Prado Cores, to derogate labour reform, of course we would! But parliamentary arithmetic is what it is. We do not have the 202 Members who had Felipe González — you know so well — and we have limitations. What we do guarantee is that these most harmful aspects of labour reform will be eliminated. And if not, in any case, I also ask you from the BNG, to the good relationship that you also have with the right nationalist parties, to push and use the caller's wild to at least help in that sense. In any case, today we call for a point vote. Our spirit is to continue to re-engage together, taking important steps and also giving priority to what is basic — at least for the Socialist Group, it has been and will continue to be — which is to improve the work situation of thousands of workers in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u148	Mr. President. Freedom of expression is one of the most precious freedoms and democratic rights, right? When a democratic right is threatened, the best way to defend it is to exercise it. I, exercising my right to freedom of expression in this House, say that the People's Party has been condemned for corruption. Getting to the theme...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u149	Well, I recommend you read the report that was passed to the spokesman.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u150	I again exercise my freedom of expression: the People's Party was condemned for corruption once, and we'll see what's left of the year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u151	I tell him to read the report, and I also suggest that this topic is already discussed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u152	I'm going back to saying that the People's Party is a party condemned for corruption, by the Gürtel, and you have to see the judgments that remain the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u153	Well, that's something else, but I want you to read the report. I suggest you read the report, and that's it. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Lago, on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u154	Well, there are more democratic freedoms and rights than the Galician Union has difficulty in understanding. One is union freedom, because when the Employment Counsellor goes up to this rostrum, he disqualifies the reports drawn up by the unions. They don't seem like respectful entities. And so I would waste my time — because I am at the bottom an economist of Labour Committees who is passing through this Parliament — if I were to tell the analysis of the labour market. And that's why I'm going to resort to the sources that the People's Party has to accept. A Eurostat note of April 2018 indicates that Spain — and us included — is the fourth country with the lowest employment rate throughout the European Union. A report by the European Central Bank of May 2017 highlights that Spain is the second most under-employmented country in the European Union. Another Eurostat report points out that Spain heads unwanted part-time. A OECD report says that Spain is the third state of the European Union with the highest percentage of poor workers and workers, only Romania and Greece have more poverty at work than we do. In April 2018, Eurostat reported that Spain is the second country with the lowest wage increase in the whole European Union in 2017. Wages have grown here five times less than in the European Union average. A report by Eurostat in April 2018 shows that Spain is the third country with the highest wage inequality in Europe, only Lithuania and Romania have a higher difference between the highest and lowest wages. Eurostat statistics show that in 2017 Spain is the state of the Union with more unemployed persons and the second highest rate of unemployment. A 2014 report places Spain as the OECD country where people are at greater risk of losing their jobs and the greatest difficulty in getting out of the unemployment situation. Spain is once again the state of the European Union with more people on temporary contracts in 2017, as Eurostat data shows. A recent report by the European Union states that only 8% of people with temporary contracts in Spain become indefinite compared to an average of 24% in Europe. A report from the European Commission of May 2018 highlights that Spain is the state with the highest rate of timeliness in Europe. In this document it says textually: "The greater use of timeliness above the European average cannot be attributed to a different sectoral structure of the economy". The Banco de España, in its 2017 annual report on the Spanish economy, says textually: "In this recovery there is once again a characteristic feature of the expansion phases of the Spanish economy consisting of an increase in the rate of temporaryity, accompanied by a decrease in the duration of contracts and an increase in the unintended bias". It is clear that we have a problem, a huge problem with employment, the lack of employment, the quality of employment. Spain is the fifth economy of the European Union, but it is the most precarious labour market in the whole of the European Union. It's the country that has less employment opportunities, more unemployment, more temporality, more unwanted part-time work, more underemployment, more wage inequality, more poor workers, stagnant wages and more irregular recruitment formulas. Labour insecurity is a structural variable in the labour market in Galicia and the Spanish state: out of every 100 employees, 27 have a temporary contract, 15 work part-time and 15 are unemployed. We have a serious problem that is, in addition, structural and permanent, because we have been doing so since 1984, with very negative consequences for people, for the economy, for businesses, for public accounts, for productivity and for the welfare of the majority of society. This is the legacy that Rajoy has left and that this new Government has to face by changing a precarious labour model as a result of 55 labour reforms imposed since 1984, all in the same direction: to simplify the account of cutting labour rights. And now I stop looking at the People's Party and I look at the Socialist Party. Companions and comrades of the Socialist Party, now it's about ending up with this work market shame, it's about changing the paradigm, there's about restoring labour stability as a basic principle of the functioning of the labour market, and for that, comrades and comrades of the Socialist Party, it doesn't come up with cosmetic changes in labour reform, as the labor minister has said. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] We need a new policy framework, radically different, which must take the first step to derogate labour reforms. [[Murmurs.]] And ended with an idea: the Socialist Party spent time saying that there were no numbers to change government, it's been saying that for a year. Our strength said there were numbers to change government. And I say: the Socialist Party is not re-signed and does not use the false argument that we do not have the strength to do what the working class, what the unions, what most progressive of this country wants, which is to ban labour reforms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u155	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u156	Comrade lake, it's fun, it's fun. [[Laughter]] Today I can only devote thirty seconds to the ornamental party. In any case, I think you have a bad conscience, because it's true that you prefer a PSOE government that destroys employment to a PP government that believes it. That's the summary of all of this that we just heard, comrades and comrades, all of them. [[Applause]] Look, tell them, Mr Lago, that workers from working committees and that workers' committees fired by applying the labour reform of the People's Party that reform is bad. Tell them when you can. Mrs. Prado, the truth is, it's also curious to hear the BNG feel dizzy; so numbed that he could talk about something that nothing had to do with the initiative more than half the time he had for the initiative. And I'm telling you one thing: if the BNG is numbed, it's numbed at the Congress of Deputies, because there the one who numbed the BNG was precisely the Greek citizenship, which they didn't want. And I think that, if they go on like this, the Greeks will shock them here too. Because I think your speech is completely out of date. You've spent a lot of time talking about issues that have nothing to do with because I think you've been disturbed by a comment you made earlier about Mr. Fernando Blanco, with which you collaborated, the Bipartite Industry Advisor and accused. And if you look into the press, you'll find statements by a gentleman named Dorribo, who said he had given the BNG advisor 200,000 euros and "who kept them in a bottle of champagne in the wine fridge" then, if you want, in the replica shift, they'll explain it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you were talking about a case that affects a company whose shareholder is an entrepreneur, which is also mayor of the Sanxenxo Town Hall. Look, we're talking about a sanctioning file that started Galician Union in 2010, a sanctioning file that starts the People's Party Government. Look if we look at who we're acting to! I suppose you'll also use it to tell us about your mayors of Vimianzo, Arzua and all of them. Mrs. Blanco, the truth is to draw breast from the Socialist Party on corruption is how to put the fox in the care of chickens, honestly. I have to correct Mrs. Prado del Río, because she's been wrong before. It's not true that two socialist leaders are charged for stealing money from the unemployed. No, they stole money from the Board of Andalusia, which was money for the EREs and training courses. It was only 800 million euros, it was only 800 million euros! That's the reality. And so I have to tell you that it's also curious to ask BNG for help in approving a new job reform, because they're not in Congress. I suppose you're asking him to talk to Bildu, who also supported them to promote that motion of censure. Look, I deeply regret what paper he did and what he will do from now on the Socialist Party from here on. After so many times asking for the immediate derogation from the labour reform, after promising that they would end up with it nothing more to reach the Government, after so many times saying that it had not been of any use, that it had brought only precariousness, the truth is that it is now enterprising to listen to them. Look, we welcome that, as Minister Valerio has said, they now embrace pragmatism and recognize that labour reform has created jobs, that labour reform has definitely contributed to the economic recovery of our country and that labour reform has ultimately been positive for Spain. I appreciate Mrs. Valerio's words, which in the end what she does to them is a whole amendment to the speech you've handled over the past few years. I celebrate they're giving us reason once more. And it's just that socialists, finally, when they correct, are right. They always fail at first. And proof of that was that socialist government that doubled unemployment in Spain. That was the reality, doubled unemployment in Spain. We are proud that the People's Party Government, the one you have fallen, has created 2,700,000 jobs, 2,700,000 jobs! Look, Galicia's doing fine. In Galicia, in the last year, they came out of unemployment lists 23,000 people, unemployment dropped by 11% in the last year, that's the reality. Galicia is the community where unemployment has been the lowest in the last year. It has lowered unemployment more than in any other, and therefore those who seek employment today in our community are less than in 2009. You can say whatever you want. The truth is, if you say otherwise, you're lying See, in Galicia full-time recruitment increased by 14% in the last year. According to EPA, 3 out of every 4 employees in Galicia have an indefinite contract, we're talking about 73.3%, more than when the Bipartite ruled. That's an undeniable fact. Look, 9 out of every 10 busy people have a full-time job in our community. That's the situation. Mrs. Prado, I don't accept BNG's speech, that speech of concern about employment. Because it's true they rule in very few places, but where they rule against employment. Look, they're against employment in Pontevedra, they're continually against Elnosa, disregarding an investment of 40 million euros, and the employment of more than half a hundred workers. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] They're against ENCE, which depends on 5,000 people, 800 people in the area. You abstained from the BNG to the law that allowed the expansion of PSA-Citroën, you find that more than 20,000 jobs depend on it. [[Murmurs.]] They're against mining, which depends on 5,000 families in our community. And besides, they're against projects that protect a mining law that was approved when you were an industrial delegate. Call me a trick, Mrs. Prado! [[Murmurs.]] Call me a trick! I would say something else. They're against everything. On budget execution, I would ask you not to lie, Mrs Prado, because it is not true that you have stopped running EUR 1 billion in employment policies. The execution of the budget is between the outstanding credit and the committed credit. 90% of the total outstanding credit was committed between 2009 and 2017, 90%. [[Murmurs.]] We're talking about 2,878 million out of 3,182.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u157	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u158	Mrs. Prado, do whatever you want at the BNG. If they follow that line, the drift is total. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, give these Socialist Party gentlemen a hand and talk to Bildu, and approve a job reform. That would be better than ours, which has allowed us to create 2,700,000 jobs in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. I would ask them to use it today, because, if not, this is very difficult for the presidency, exact terms, we have no inaccuracies. And here they were used today, and I'm trying to fix that and that's why that report is. And you, Mr Tellado, today used an inaccurate term — in my opinion — today. Because, as far as I know, in the ERE case they're accused not of stealing, for other crimes... No, no, I heard that... so I ask that, please... right! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the object, but not so...! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no... well, you think you understand me and we're gonna understand each other; otherwise, it's hard. No, not now... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, now it's his turn... and I think everyone understood me. [[Murmurs.]] This is easy to understand. [[Murmurs.]] It's not that complicated. You are elected by the people, I think it is easy to understand this. That's how we all got here, I say! Well, Mrs. Prado, your turn. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u160	Yes, to be exact, he gave Mr. Tellado a 2-minute margin and 20 seconds. I expect the same condescension.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u161	You don't tell me that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u162	No, no... well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u163	That didn't run in a hurry. If I get rid of your interventions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u164	He was running...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u165	We'll leave the matter there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u166	We'll leave him there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u167	Let's just calm this down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u168	Mr Tellado — speaking of accuracy — said a construction contractor, Telmo Martín, mayor of the People's Party. I'm saying, because... Telmo Martín, mayor of the People's Party, construction entrepreneur Telmo Martín, mayor of the People's Party, Sanxenxo Town Hall... [[Applause]] Mayor of the People's Party of Sanxenxo Town Hall... I say it because it seems... convicted of over-costing, for charging over-money in "b", the families who wanted to buy a housing... over-cost, over-cost... the mayor of the People's Party, mayor of Sanxenxo... same. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's over EUR 1 billion not executed to improve the labour market, to improve the working conditions of both the Greeks and the people's Party, and to totally disprove themselves from them. And today the BNG brings here an initiative for them to bring a report on why they don't run that money and they're going to vote against it; because, of course, knowing what the People's Party does with money, not. Transparency, for the papers, to say it mouthful; now, to practice it, no. For God's sake, it's not gonna be that we know why they don't run, why they don't do what they say! You practice "do what we say, not what we do." They know how to do it very well. So they're going to vote against a report to find out why they don't run the money to improve the situation of the working class in Galicia, which you don't know. Well, that's good. And in the face of the precarious situation, low wages, rotation, difficulty in access and pay gap, the Government of Faixóo no longer executes EUR 1 billion. Indolence, neglect, allow the mass emigration of our boys and girls, they don't move a finger and vote against that we know why. Well, that's unfortunate. And we cannot accept the amendment of the Socialist Party. Clearly, it is time to act. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, in the BNG we believe that it is no longer the time for actions, announcements and blows of effect, but for the repeal of labour reforms, which are the cause of the terrible situation in the labour market, precariousness and tremendous low wages. And I would like to remind the Socialist Party that on December 13, 2016 the Socialist Party brought to Congress a non-legislative proposal calling on the Congress of Deputies to immediately urge the Government to take the necessary measures to derogate the labour reform imposed by the People's Party in the X legislature. And I got 168 votes in favour and 131 against, i.e., most of it was already held in Congress to derogate labour reform. So, if there were a few people, because I ask the courage to try those majority again, because there were already more votes in favor of Congress than against. It was necessary to dislodge the People's Party of Government of the Spanish State, and the BNG contributed, to the part we could, to create the social environment necessary for that eviction. But after the change of government there is a need for policy change, a change of policy is necessary. And if there were a majority to vote in favour of non-law proposals, which had more votes in favour — 168 in favour and 131 against — at a given time, because one has the courage to take initiatives again. If there's not enough votes, it's lost. But you must have the courage to take her to overthrow her. The working class can't wait any longer. And then I also want to tell you something without any kind of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u170	I'm done, president. For example, the IGC is also a representative union at the state level. And in Galicia, there's also a different union reality from that of the state. And as representative unions, both the IGC and the Basque unions have the right to also be at those negotiating tables. And I hope that the Socialist Party will not practice what it has done so far the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado? What do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u172	Yes, Mr President, for Rule 76.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u173	About inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u174	We accept that you tell us that, indeed, there is no theft in the ERE, which is a matter of rocket, misrepresentation and other crimes of corruption. But we also call for the same rigor that has just been said here. Because Mr. Telmo Martín is not convicted, we're talking about an administrative file that started in 2010 and ends with an administrative sanction against a company and not against any physical person. And there's no criminal charge. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that clarification and accuracy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u175	For there is a record of that clarification. I, as you will understand, up to those levels I don't reach. But there's a record and it's clear. I'm not a lawyer. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, okay. There it is, it's been recorded. I don't understand this and therefore remains constant. If it's information that you transmit like this, that's good. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of the financial system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u176	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mr Sánchez has the floor to speak. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Santos, be quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u177	Man, don't tell me that's not accurate. Please! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u178	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! We'll try to cooperate, if not, we'll suspend the full. Because there's also a time when you get tired. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] Please! It seems to be a permanent provocation to the presidency. Go to the most important things, man, that's what people are asking you to do. That's why we have the wages we have. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u179	Our reports are collected, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u180	I have the right to advise myself. Go to the point!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u181	Well, you have to get one more letter. Look, it comes to me very well, in addition, what Mrs. Prado said to talk about the People's Party's conviction in the Gürtel judgment. It's a Supreme Court ruling against a company, with an injunction of a file, not in 2010 but on October 1, 2007, with the two-party government, which is the file to which the Supreme Court ruling refers. And precisely not criminally condemn Telmo Martín and the other three partners at that time because, when the facts happened, it wasn't yet the reform of the criminal code that makes it possible for there to be criminal liability... yes, yes, yes, yes, but from that reform of the criminal code it is when they could be those acts of criminal responsibility. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] So you are recognizing that simply, and as the sentence itself says — and I have it here to read it — you have not been convicted of corruption because you did the same deeds for those who would be convicted of corruption before it was a criminal offence. So, in political terms, to come here to say that you're a party condemned for corruption is perfectly legitimate. It's true, it's true, you simply did those deeds before the reform of the Criminal Code, which was done precisely to pursue facts that were corruption and that the Criminal Code did not collect as such. So stop lying now. And I read here: "In order to properly assess the responsibility of the People's Party in the form, as requested by the allegations, as participate for profit in the absence of any possible criminal responsibility, when it comes to rights prior to the reform of the Criminal Code operated by Law 5/2010, which introduced in our right the possibility of liability of legal persons, the facts are prior to this reform, which introduced the criminal liability of legal persons, so that a possible criminal responsibility of the People's Party as a legal person is not being clarified in this procedure, which is not legally feasible by the date of the facts, irrespective of whether they appear as constituting the illegal spread of funds from prevarication, rocket and others, and of the intervention they may have had... He doesn't come in because he can't, but not because the facts weren't constituents of that. I mean, if you do that after the reform of the Criminal Code -- that you've been doing it and you'll see other judgments -- that's corruption. So no one can deny us corruption. Even the lawyer's report says we can't come here saying "the party condemned for corruption," and let it be interpreted by the President of Parliament, who had a restrictive interpretation of our rights. Because that cannot be done in a democratic Parliament. If you remove the word "corruption" and remove all this debate from the minutes, in a few years, when you look at it, you will say: these were in Babia, because there was a structurally corrupt party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u182	Mr. Sánchez, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u183	...and the judgments speak of that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u184	...it's here for today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u185	...and the opposition wasn't talking about it, that it was a corrupt party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u186	I think you've been on the subject for five minutes in the dissertation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u187	No, but I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u188	No, no, but listen. No, excuse me a moment. Same time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u189	I think I was right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u190	Same time. Excuse me a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u191	I was exact. I was pretty accurate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u192	But, well, you did an intervention, well, that's already collected in the report I sent, so you didn't bring anything new. Yes, no, no, it's collected... it's collected there, so, well, I think we've already planned what I was going to talk about today. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I think now we have to go to what we have to talk about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u193	Now I can talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u194	No, I've got the time — as you see — to stop. Then, Mr. Sanchez, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u195	I want to say that from the representative of the corrupt party you spoke earlier, Mr. Tellado, I would like to remember a few words you said on the TVG recently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u196	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u197	No, I'm done with that. According to Tellado, "what Santalices wants with this is to dignify the political debate, because, in his judgment, the House should not be turned into a laminate," said Mr Tellado. Well, we've just seen how Mr Tellado wants to dignify — and he dignifies every day he comes out here to talk — the parliamentary debate and he doesn't want to turn this into a slab. [[Murmurs.]] Because, of course, you know who likes the scissors. [[Applause]] So, yes, gentlemen, Mr. Fernández Gil's efforts are interesting when it comes to isolated case theory, isolated case theory in the People's Party. It's not the same thing that in a party there can be cases, crimes, failings, and another very different thing is that a party is structurally designed to criminalize, as is the People's Party, and that it has been criminalizing since its birth and financing illegally since its birth. It's a very different thing. And it's a very different thing -- when these things happen, when you know these things -- what each party does. And you were covering up the corrupt and the corrupt until the end. It's the difference with other parties when...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u198	Not me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u199	Not you. Not you, Mr. Santalices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u200	Excuse me, excuse me a moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u201	You just didn't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u202	You're doing an intervention that seems to be a provocation. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, you've been talking for six minutes. So I, as you will understand, certain expressions will not allow them to go into the minutes of the session. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, don't talk to me. I'm talking to Mr. Sánchez. You can't come to a rousing gallery. If you have to come... No, no, please! [[Strong murmurers.]] No, no... the president! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To the president! Matizo: to the president, because the president has a role. So I, Mr. Sánchez, beg you to go to the question we've already brought...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u203	I'm going to the question, which is also about corruption. Can I talk? Do you hear me? Mr. President, I think we should use the same range for everyone. And I'm on my way to the question. I think I'm talking about something that everyone who preceded me in the use of the word spoke, I used arguments to legalize that we can talk here about a corrupt, structurally corrupt party, like the People's Party. But we can also talk about the big scams. And one of the big scams in this country was the liquidation of savings banks, the liquidation that in the state counted with impulses, which were the big bankers, and it counted on a political pact also at the state level, in which also unfortunately were the People's Party and the Socialist Party agree. This meant finally winding up in a decade — it is by chance that that decade was almost occupied by a government of Mr Feijóo — of the Greek financial system and the liquidation of savings banks, which meant 40% of the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks. And this is not only an error in making wrong decisions or they were not right. It was also the mistake of not fighting hard to preserve its own sovereignty, our own self-government, which gave us Article 30.5 of the Galician Statute, which gives exclusive powers to the Autonomous Community to manage savings — not the banks —. Therefore, the loss of savings banks is the loss of economic sovereignty in this country and of being able to have economic instruments for the generation of a productive economy, of support for the productive sectors; which has not always been done so, even though the boxes gave that possibility for their social character. And so it was not done because of the responsibility of successive governments that failed to comply with the binding obligation at that time, collected in Legislative Decree 1/2005, so the recast text 7/1985, of savings banks in Galicia, where article 5 said that the action of the Government of the Autonomous Community, within the framework of the general activity management bases and the state monetary policy, will be carried out under the following principles: to ensure the independence of savings banks and to defend their fundamental nature, prestige and stability; to monitor the compliance by the boxes of their economic and social function, according to an appropriate policy of the administration and investment of private savings, etc. It's been missed, it's been allowed to do for years to run savings banks as if they were private banks, it's allowed them to go to that crazy betting career for the speculative real estate market. And don't come here to blame the two-party government because it coincided with the two-party government period. No, no, the 2007 Banco de España report was already talking about the exponential growth of credit risk in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. So that was a continuous one, it was a continuous one in the policies of this country with one government and another. And finally, it ended up as we all know, with a hole of 8,000 million euros of public money that had to be put to sanitation an entity that ended up in the hands of a Venezuelan banker. You were the ones who gave 40 percent of the savings from the Greeks and the Greeks to a Venezuelan banker, it wasn't us. It was you, after a series of performances that greatly helped this outcome. They bet on a merger based on lies, a merger based on lies that was a decision that favored the interests of the privatized boxes. It was a lie when they said she was backed up by an audit. It wasn't auditing, nor did KPMG's due diligence report recommend or make any recommendations about the merger or solution that should be taken. Say it in the report we had access to. Nor did you tell the truth when Mr. Feijóo said that there were more audits here. PriceWater's, PriceWaterhause Coopers, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, yes, it wasn't an audit either, and Mr Feijó said it here at the previous session, or there are two sessions. [[Murmurs.]] There was neither an audit nor a merger recommendation etc. But now we have the concealment, in addition to the lie. We've been asking for fundamental information for years to understand the action of the Galician Union and its responsibilities, which is systematically denied to us. We want to know why KPMG said it was a limited and partial report on the issues it sent to the Galician Council in a letter of order. And that letter of commission doesn't appear anywhere. What are they hiding? We want them to inform us, we want them to give us that report we've been asking for over five years. And we also want to have access to reports from the Fatenda technicians who, according to Marta Fernández Currás, joined the case file. We want to know — and we don't understand what you're hiding — if there's no commission letter, if there's no report from the Fatenda technicians and, if there's any, why they're hiding in them. It's as simple as our motion today. We call on the parliamentary groups to provide us with information that we have the right to know the honourable Members and the citizens and the people of Greece and the people of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u204	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. From the Galician Nationalist Block we shared much of Mr. Sánchez's reflections, both in the first and second parts. And we shall vote in favour of this initiative. We are going to do it primarily by political conviction and also ethics, because we have talked a lot today in this Parliament about the real and effective system of corruption that has just been discovered, which is the People's Party. But we could add that, in addition to an effective system of corruption, it is also an effective system of absolute opacity. Because — Mr Sánchez said now in his last part of the speech — what is being asked is something so crazy and undocumented that we don't even know if it exists or does not exist and that it is moving to this Parliament. Something that, in some way, we have claimed since the opposition in this Parliament not only in this legislation. This comes from a distance. And we think that it's really been a little bit of an hour that the People's Party has stopped perverting absolutely reality and words and no longer concealing the placard it had in dismantling our financial system, which is increasingly clear that it was an absolutely orchestrated operation also since political power. And the passage of time and also the freezing of that box investigation commission -- or "frozen bis" already -- because we're taking so many freezing phases that we don't know where we are anymore -- has a correction. They like or not the leaders of the People's Party, indeed, here are political organizations that are responsible, who are responsible for this country, and that we will continue to focus on this issue and we will continue to demand our explanations of the role played by the People's Party and Mr Feijóo, who has not yet given a single explanation of very serious facts. The only thing he did was to put more noise on the question to see if, with a little confusion, he was trying to get over the subject. But the truth is that we have increasingly clear the consequences, unstoppable in many cases, of what was the liquidation of our financial system: the sale at the cash balance price, the disappearance of thousands of jobs, the loss of economic capacity as a country — each year the flight of more than 15 billion euros of savings — and so on. And while we saw Mrs Fernández Currás — who was a member of this government and did not want to appear in this House — she answered a written questionnaire — we recently heard her in Madrid because it is seen that in Madrid she really likes to talk to some people. And there is more evidence on the table that these reports theoretically exist, but they are not referred to the German Parliament. So we'd like to see them. Of course, you say that was already done even since the Fraga era, but they don't make that documentation easy. We would also like to have more information about that file "x" which is already KPMG's report. I want to insist, once again in this House, that you're lying. In this Parliament there is not that whole report, or audit, or whatever they call it, but an incomplete power point. And now we're going to part two: neither do you want to deliver that letter again. Well, I hope, Mr. Sánchez, that there is a surprise today, but I would dare say that you will not succeed. And the reality is that there is increasing evidence that you have commissioned a study that is now called in a different way every day — trying to create confusion — and that ultimately has endorsed the fraudulent sale of Novagalicia Banco. We are indeed seeing the growing economic results of what Abanca is today, which there are many shadows still on this process. In the end, we see that it was neither audit nor recommending its merger, and we would like it to be sent to this Parliament as much complete information as this letter you are asking for in Marea. Because we have to remember that we paid more than a million euros. If we pay so much, I say that, within the budget of the Galician Union, it won't cost them so much effort to spend a bit on photocopies and be able to send that information to the House. We keep thinking that, if you don't send it, it's because, in fact, there's something to hide. And besides, it must be insisted that it was you who called them audits to this, it was Mr. Núñez Feijóo himself. In any case, we insist that it already gives us whatever they want to call it and what they want to call it. What we ask them is what they have to hide. And given the visa, since I'm an effective system of corruption, because we imagine that there will be something about this system of corruption that will be effective too. But, in any case, we will vote in favour of this initiative in Marea, even though we suppose it will not be adopted. And we don't want to stop insisting that it is necessary, above all, that Mr. Núñez Feijóo give explanations about this which he hasn't yet given, that all the Greeks and Greeks can clearly see that documentation and also see if, in the repetitive force, one day we can defuse that commission of the boxes that you have condemned to ostracism. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this motion by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and, given that we are talking about issues related to funding, issues related to judicial actions — only to remember Mr Rato — and subjects related to convictions, I will allow myself to make a small journey through the geography of the country. I'll start with the Valencian community, with Camps, with Costa and Zaplana, with formula 1, with the Cup of America, with the Pope's visit, with Fabra and his lotteries, with Fabra's daughter and the "who fucks", and with the Valencian Institute of Modern Art. I jump to Palma de Mallorca: Jaume Matas, who seems to like gothic palaces in Palma's historic helmet—which, by the way, we were told here that we socialists were the ones who made the public-private system in Son Dureta, but who put their hand and who condemned it was Matas. I'm saying it if they forgot. We passed to Murcia: New Condomina, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, resigned. We went to Madrid: M-30 basement, and Ruíz Gallardón, Rodrigo Rato, Bankia... We went to Gürtel: Pablo Crespo, Bárcenas — "I am here to forge" — Switzerland, Panama... finally, the absolute geographic dimension. I hope not to provoke the President on this subject, because it is directly related to the financial system, it depends on who, but on the financial system. [[Applause]] And I want to talk about Galicia, too, because in Galicia, in the case of "Campion", the People's Party is coming... I'm not going to defend the BNG advisors, who have a parliamentary group to do it. But let the PP come to talk about the "Campion" case... I want to remember how this deputy was shouted at him because I humbly asked whether the meetings with Mr. Dorribo were on Mr. Dorribo's agenda, which took the files from the Igape to the Presidency of the Council of Galicia. And Mr. Feijóo said it was all with light and tachographs. So this honourable Member asked for Mr Feijóo's public agenda, and it is seen that it was in darkness and that the tachographs were on strike. [[Applause]] So, really, you guys are coming here to talk... Mr. Tellado, I think you're not in the debate, except he's going to do the People's Group reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u208	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u209	I'm talking about the light and tachographs of President Feijóo's office meeting with Dorribo with the Igape files on the table, which, by the way, no one denied, no one denied! 200 or 400, Mr. Feijóo! I insist, at Mr Feijóo's office! "Operation Z." Winner of Montepío, Mr De Lucas... yes, of course, I know you're upset, but you're there, by the way... yes, yes, Ricardo Varela, I don't know, but, suddenly, the emails that he made Feijó are the key, they're in the summary, this deputy doesn't make it up. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] It's Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u210	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u211	I think that, in the end... I understand that merit must be done, but I think it's appropriate to relax. [[Strong murmurers.]] Don't worry about the free zone, which I'm lucky to have a job to go back to from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u212	Not in everything, man, not in everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u213	Well, then don't worry too much...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u214	If he gets into everything, he's lost. Not into everything. Now talk a little bit about the financial system. It's advice I give you as a friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u215	Mr President, I have been talking about funding systems from the beginning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u216	But it's not the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u217	Oh, is it different? There's a semantic report. Let's go. With regard to this financial system of financing families and companies that deposit their funds and claim credits, and which is where the benefit of banking institutions is, there are two relevant issues, after seeing the previous plea, of the previous plenary. First of all, this unheard of fact from the Landlord saying that a small number of economic agents are expanding the competition. He changed the parameters of micro-economics; finally, I think he's licensed in economic sciences. 90%, five banks. And that allows more competition because it allows, by the way, more interests to be paid. That is why — paying more interest to bank users — banks systematically increase their profits year after year. This is the well-founded explanation of Mr. Consecutor of Fairy. And with regard to the lack of transparency, because we were actually told that it was active and passive that it was an audit, they also told us it was secret. And I want to remember — because I was in that commission — as a person who came up at the request of the People's Party — while the opposition's Members had a photocopyed version that was absolutely intelligible — came up with a printed copy in color, bottled, which looked like the California Codex. That was the secret audit of the People's Party. Well, I understand you have hope, Mr. Sánchez. But I believe that with this documentation it will happen exactly the same as it happened with the gas oil supply contracts of the Golden Marshals to the Sergas when Mr. Núñez Feijóo was in Sergas, who broke up in a flood in the Coia neighborhood in Vigo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u218	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, today Mr Sánchez gave us a magnificent example of what the new policy is all about: at the worst of the old politics. The worst thing that existed in the old politics was two questions. The first was civil death. What it was all about destroying the person so he couldn't think or have rights. This is what the new populists do, destroying the image of people regardless of honorability, rights, real circumstances. The second is using demagoxy, of which Aristotle already said it was the worst form of corruption. The sad thing is that the worst old politics, which makes the new politics new, is contagious. And while Mr. Losada is jumping around, all over the Spanish geography, possibly forgetting many of the places, because I think we're doing him a weak favor for the political debate. And especially when there's sensitive skin. You'll understand that what I'm going to do today is not getting into personal matters, with the utmost respect to all the members of this House. Because we can proudly say to the country that there is no member of this House who has any problem with justice. I feel proud both of my group and of all of you, and I'd regret this one day to twist. I'm going to get rid of the second part of the new policy, which is demagogy. [[Applause]] You are building, in relation to the boxes, an absolute new reality, an absolute posterity, telling half truths, lies, inaccuracies, falsehoods. In his speech with the counselor there was nothing, two weeks ago, I told him thirteen perfectly rebutable with data. I'm going to focus on three more today. First of all, the KPMG report — which there was a group that asked for it, when it has been there for five years — is perfectly explained in two research committees, both by whom it was done and by whom it was commissioned. It explains what the report is, what the report said, why it is responsible, what it is responsible for — because there are some technical reports from the Council that have been in the commission for five years and that you are asking again today — and what it is done to see whether the merger was viable or not, because one of the two entities in the dialogue process denied that the accounts given to the Board were correct. And the truth is, he's in charge of that report and he's perfectly explained by what they did -- I insist -- and by whom he hired it. But you keep saying things like it's not an audit. Let's see, if you go to the dictionary and see that "auditory" is a work of accounting technique according to procedures, I can give you now, so running, because like fourteen or fifteen forms of audit. There are operational audits, environmental audits, quality audits, irregular audits, public audits... there are many audits. And what the auditors of the audit company that do the KPMG report say is that they are charged with telling them whether the merger is viable according to the parameters put by the Banco de España — which they do to the suggestion of the Banco de España, who has to authorize the merger. And they say fusion is perfectly viable. You keep saying there's no audit, there's nothing there, and there's what your authors said, and that's what allowed a merger to take place. Second, you keep saying that this has not been corroborated. You have in the commission reports from auditors Boston Consulting and PriceWaterhouse on the merger process, the business and merger plan — which involves cross audits, that is, the auditor of a bank or other audit box to test it — the stress tests of the European Union, the Ministry of Economics and Finance, the report of the National Competition Commission, the European Commission and the solvency accredited by the Bank of Spain. And they keep saying that this report is not an audit and that it does not say that fusion was solvent at that time. Well, it's your problem, but the truth is that I just told you and not what you count. He says Galicia didn't do anything. Interestingly, Mr. Fernández Ordonez what is most critical of all this process is that Galicia has done a lot, among other things, because it has presented resources of unconstitutionality. Some of us agreed with the force you were fighting at that time, which was the Block; for example against FROB 1. And we have made a deal in this House. We present unconstitutional resources against FROB 2, we present a resource against the valuation of Novacaja Galicia, and the foundation itself also presented a resource when it was said that the foundation's capital was zero. So we did a lot and everything we could. Then comes the third question, the third great falsehood: that there is no Greek financial system. Like there's no Greek financial system! You tell me in how many autonomous communities the boxes working in that territory of the autonomous community remain entirely in that territory, even if it is part of a financial entity, in this case a bank, with 3,100 direct jobs, 170 million euros in direct wages — we are talking about 12,000 induced jobs and 540 million direct incomes. What was the alternative? Galician Box diluted in Bankia, which was what some actually wanted at that time. Caixanova in Caixa Bank, previously passing through Civic Bank, based in Valencia, or in Casjastur, passing through Liberbank, based in Madrid? Is that the alternative or is it better that Abanca exists? We did what we could to save the financial system. It's true that we'd like them to continue to exist savings boxes, but they don't exist anywhere in Spain. They disappeared as a result of the tsunami of the crisis, with the action of the Banco de España and the European monetary authorities. It's not the end we'd like, but it's a positive end for the country. So, Mr. Sánchez, I ask myself a question: why are you saying that all this was false, that it was a lie, that nothing was done and that the bank was gifted, when you know perfectly that it was a auction process to which several entities competed and therefore it was a public contest where there was no gift? More so, you said we were going to give them to some vultures when they showed up, and they didn't get anything either. Yeah, they said it in their group. Why are you doing this? Why? The question is the classic: What bonus?, What product? Who benefits that you are now saying things like the Bolivarian government's actions put at risk an entity in Galicia controlled by the Banco de España and the Central of Europe, subject to legislation and completely independent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u221	...of what is a group being intervened by the Bolivarian Government of Venezuela? Who benefits? Of course it doesn't benefit the workers I just said, nor the Greeks who trust her to have their deposits, nor the medium and small businesses that are financed by the existence of Abanca. Maybe it benefits those who are pushing new mergers, new mergers. Maybe you, I don't know if you're conscious or unconscious, what you're favoring is that there are new mergers and that the only bank that has thirst and performance in Galicia disappears. The benefit of who does so much demagogy, Mr. Sánchez? Because maybe he's favoring whoever says he's attacking the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u222	Thank you, Mr. Puy. For the motion's own group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u223	Mr. Puy, what do you have to do not talk about what is asked of you in the motion, right?!, easy as it was to say what happens with the letter of charge of the reports of the Technicians of Fairy and what to do. Look, you launched a series of very credible insinuations: that I'm charging a commission from some bank to sink Abanca... that's very incredible. I don't have to resort to innuendos. It's history already; as Mr. Feijóo says, archaeology. That's what you did and the result of what you did: 9 billion euros of public money put in the boxes to end up in the hands of a Venezuelan banker at the cost of balance. That's not insinuations, that's what you guys did. Did you charge the commission for that? I don't think so, Mr. Puy, I don't think you've got a commission. He's a member of the People's Party and that doesn't mean you're a corrupt. But you can participate in a corrupt structure, which is the People's Party since its birth. It's the difference between your argument and ours. You think they're individual issues. No, the structure in which they participate is systematically designed to practice this kind of corruption since their birth. That's the difference. Well, you said that PriceWaterhouse Coopers -- now I said it right -- was an audit or that... No, no, look, I got him here. I read it textually, I read it because I suppose you did not have time in these six years of reading: "It has not included a review of the content and suitability of the economic justification of the merger and the strategic programme of the merged entity, nor a review of the content and suitability of the remaining information contained in that documentation, so no assessment of it has been made. It has not been to verify the veracity or reasonableness of the information. No contrast has been made to this information..., etc., etc. It's neither audited nor found information etc. The same in KPMG. On page 11 of the diagnosis it is expressly recognized that it is not an audit. You lied, you lied expressly. Nor was the information given to them by the entities, a fundamental question for the remaining path. Because the valuations of the real estate assets that were given to the boxes, so you see in the diagnosis, were overvalued, as you've already checked the following year, right? These things don't matter. The rigor is for when we talk about corruption in the PP; instead, not in this. I mean, they're taking out a million-euro report to take down the merger. Mrs. Marta Fernández Curras came out to talk about it. He's talking about auditing, which was not auditing, and he says he's backing up the merger. And he didn't weigh down the merger, he didn't even counterbalance the information the entities gave him. And, with those weapons, we're going to the fusion war. Of course you do! Of course there were more alternatives, Mr. Puy! Of course there was! But you chose one and you have to assume responsibility, with this rigour to present an audit that wasn't or valued the merger. And Mr. Feijóo said, "Ah!, that wasn't, but there was another one, which was from Pricewaterhouse Coopers." And it turns out it wasn't either. It was the same, more of the same, Mr. Puy. And you were talking about he didn't do anything Galicia. You guys, look, they didn't do anything. They were tolerated that we had all the competitions removed and that, when an auditor, McKinsey, decided that there should be a quick and running sale, without knowing us the arguments why there should be a quick and running sale, you didn't say mu, no mu!, like the German Government. We're talking about 40% of the savings from privatized Greeks and deciding an auditor. We would ask the report to the Box Research Commission, and we didn't have the report to justify the accelerated sale of Novagalicia Banco. Is there more humiliation for a Parliament, or for a Greek Government, that they decide on 40% of the savings of the Greeks without knowing why that decision is made, without knowing whether it is wrong or whether it is okay? You guys watched as if nothing. A zero on the left was you! And by focusing once again on the fundamental, he was believed once again that you continue to hide transcendent information about the Box Research Commission. And you just proved it, because you didn't say anything about that missing documentation. They have to give it, they have to give it! They're hiding information, and that's also corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u224	Thank you. We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m. [[The session is suspended at three o'clock and resumed at four and fifteen minutes, four and a quarter.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the treatment of liquid waste
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u225	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block, the People's Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.After the resolution of the motion, three new points should be added: "— To approve, within six months, the General Sanitation Plan provided for in Articles 34 and 37 of Law 9/2010, of 4 November, of Galician rivers, and in Article 16 of Decree 1/2015, of 15 January, so as to approve the Galician Water Planning Regulation.— To instruct the University of Vigo to conduct an interdisciplinary study on the situation of the Welsh rivers including the analysis of urban and industrial discharges, the possible effects of climate change, evolution and causes of loss of productivity, the impact on the marine environment, on the aquaculture and on the fishing of the landfilling of the measures established by the EU.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López, through his spokesman and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of the motion should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. To continue to cooperate at all times, in accordance with the applicable legislation, with the Ministry of Ecological Transition by providing all the information that the Ministry needs in relation to the procedures opened by the European Union for the treatment of waste water, in which the State is the sole responsible for defence.2. To continue to support the municipalities in taking measures that respond to the treatment of urban waste water in Galicia, having as its road map the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan 2015-2021 and, in particular:— Moving forward with the actions being carried out for the improvement of the EDAR of the Praceres in Pontevedra.— Urged the Town Hall of Santiago to sign the agreed cooperation agreement on its day between the three administrations involved in the new EDAR of Santiago de Compostela, in order to end its immediate bidding.— Instituting the State to the urgent final approval of the dredged of the Burgo River and to the immediate bidding of it."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Marcos Cal Ogando, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion. The text of paragraph 5(c) of the motion must be replaced by the following:" (c)The conduct of a rigorous study in the Pontevedra River which gives us a real map of the reasons why sediments are being deposited in the places where they do it, the types of sludge they contain and, ultimately, with the results obtained, what is the most appropriate, less aggressive action with the environment and favourable to the improvement of the production sectors in the river."Amendment # The following text shall be added to the end of point 5.d: "... with the end of its immediate launch in the place of Silvouta, as proposed by the Council, with the support of the USC, in February").]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u226	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u227	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. First of all, I want to greet the people who accompany us, who are from the Crown and Compostela, and who unfortunately have enough to say about defects in debugging. The other day, the Environmental Adviser, in the interpellation, spoke only about supply and sanitation. And it's understandable that maybe he didn't want to be so moved at this time for the People's Party to talk about debugging, now that you're at this depurative stage or in that purgatory for getting to the leadership. And after the party was sentenced in judgment by -- literally quoting Paula Prado and Mr Tellado -- "to steal more than 300 thousand euros to fund electoral campaigns throughout the country." Although we want to be more precise, at Gürtel's own judgment — referred to, that if, to the People's Party of Valencia — says: "To conclude this statement, the documents outlined already allow to establish, together with Correa's and those that are then examined, that the People's Party of Valencia financed its electoral campaigns of the years contemplated in such an absolutely irregular way that it was criminal". [[Applause]] In a vulgar way, as the high prosecutor of Galicia would say, maybe you can say "corruption." In any case, if he has been convicted civilly as a profit-making participant. And that's exactly like Ana Mato, who didn't know he had a Jaguar in his garage. The counsellor spoke only of sanitation, at no time did she talk of debugging, never! Maybe it's confused or maybe the environmental advisor doesn't differ between sanitation and debugging. We suppose it'll be the first one, which was a conscious confusion. He was also confused when he spoke of the Government's desire to support those councils that need him in the exercise of his powers in matters of "supply and sanitation". But debugging is not the competence of the Councils, it is the competence of the Council of Galicia. And when a government can't throw balloons out, it can't say there's more than a billion euros invested since the year 2009 on sanitation again and supplies. That's less bad! We just need to see the results to see that they must be very well employed. He also spoke of more than one hundred and thirty million euros — yes, in future, "deferred", as the candidate Cospedal would now say — of the Galicia-Coste Hydrological Plan. And that will be destined by the year 2021 for the sanitation and the good quality of the waters, especially for the sanitation of the rivers. But it's just that the laughs aren't the city council's competence, either, if the municipal orders don't come. So we need to focus on the issue and talk about cleaning and treatment of liquid waste, which is what we have to talk about today, urban waste. The past full we talked about the Vigo, Burgo, Pontevedra and Compostela purification. And from the Burgo River the councillor said again: two hundred and eight million euros invested, "the largest investment" — I say — "in a hydraulic work." But you forgot there's a part that's Feder funds, a majority part, and that there was also state budget. And that, as I said the other day, that state budget has a name and a name, which is Elena Espinosa. Burgo's laugh said there's a project to clean up the bottoms of the river. We don't know where he is. The truth is you've been evicted from the ministry without a project, we don't know where that project is. And I was convinced that the Minister of Energy Transition will launch this investment immediately. Well, first, you'll have to do everything you haven't done. And he said: it is absolutely false that the Burgo's laugh is contaminated — that's what the counselor said. Sure, so why do we need a mud dredging and a sanitation plan? If it's not contaminated, it's not necessary. And maybe it's a project similar to the Pontevedra River that President Núñez Feijóo promised in 2016. And little more than that promise, there's no sanitation plan, of course, but EDAR's up. I used to say the other day that "decant", indeed, the garbage — by calling it somehow — waste, but it doesn't clear. Fifteen days ago the counselor said that the draft of the EDAR of Pleasures was in writing. And in Peter and the wolf there was a boy who said, "What is the wolf coming!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well maybe with the project or the project be so, too, or we don't know if it's Peter, Sánchez, or it's the wolf, but some of them must be. In 2016 Feijóo arrived and said that there was an investment of more than 15 million euros to expand the EDAR of Pleasures and that it was the most important infrastructure that would be done by the Government of Galicia, and that they were working to start work before the end of that year 2016. Two years later there's nothing. And today, just two years later, a response from the Government arrives saying to us, "At the moment, no request for land authorization is being processed for the extension of EDAR of Pleasures." These two years if you don't even have the land, because you didn't even ask for permission to use the land. And in the next two years, it's going to be hard for us to have EDAR running. And the truth is, in Marín, Poio and Sanxenxo, who are in the stream of Pontevedra, they have trouble debugging without fixing. The government did some work in Marin; it's true. And he said there were four million euros to improve the hydraulic infrastructure, but the collectors are not yet. And we assume that they're not going to raise Marin just before the municipal elections because if you see too much, it's probably after. The counsellor said here that he told Poio he had the courage to tell where to locate the debugger. But this isn't worth it or not, this isn't a boxing fight, whatever the debate is or what it was like this morning. And you have to have no value, what you have to have is the decision by the board, who decides what the debugger will do, because it's actually the one who has the power to debug, to tell where it's going. Because up to three times he said he was going to Pampaido in Sanxenxo. There were three different projects. From 2010 they changed their minds and talked about Montalbo, from Samieira point of view, from Laño... but in 2012 there began to be neighboring opposition and then they decided to do studies and reports. The same as Compostela and Compostela's debugger. The counsellor the other day was disenfranchised from demanding the Government of Pedro Sánchez to invest in the Souto debugger. And he also said that once again the former Government, Mr. Rajoy's, had invested 60% of the total investment in EDAR, with an agreement between the Board and the Town Hall. What happened was a real commitment, which there are only promises and commitments. And besides the poor purifications of Santiago and Ames are responsible for the Sar River being as it is: absolutely poor in its ecological state. An EDAR is required in Compostela and the expansion of the EDAR in Bertamirans. But they're ghosts too. And they also affect the poor ecological state of the Arousa stream. In our motion, we make five demands regarding cleaning and treatment of liquid waste, not sanitation or supplies: The first demand is for the Government to cooperate with the new Ministry of Energy Transition and Environment in the face of the economic sanctions of the European Union to Spain. Of course, Spain is sued because the State which entered the European Union in 1986 was not Galicia, Spain. The second demand is that this year 2018 implements a sanitation plan for Galicia. The third demand, which takes urgent measures of integral action on areas that are potentially threatened and so said the MEPs who came to Galicia in 2013. The fourth demand, which operates this year and with specific departure special plans for the use and sustainability specifically of the Arousa River and the Pontevedra River. And the fifth demand, which is to respond to the purification and treatment of urban waste water related to EDAR of the Praceres, the EDAR of Ames, which favors the immediate completion of the dredge of the Burgo River, which licits the dredging and regeneration of the river bottom of Pontevedra — which we are also waiting to sit and sit by him — that is to sign a collaboration agreement with the other two administrations involved for the EDAR of Santiago de Compostela and to prepare a study on the former mining of Touro. Because it's pretty hard to understand that he's coming or speaking, that he's going out to the media the director general of Minas and say that the water pH is normal, when fellows of this party were in Touro and the pond he sees is black, totally black and thick, like hatote. In fact, the director general of Minas himself said that the new exploitation had inherited an environmental liability. Indeed, we believe that it is an environmental liability that is difficult to measure accounting, as it has happened with the accounts of the Bárcens and the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Mrs Vilan, as you know, the expression you referred to earlier has been corrected. The expression you referred to, the expression of "robber," that was corrected. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm telling you because you just used it. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It was corrected in Mr. Tellado's intervention and then I nuanced it. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] So, we're going to keep correcting and we're going through the full correcting. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The truth is that we miss that they are not here in this debate, neither the Environment Adviser nor the Sea Adviser, when we are talking about nothing more and nothing less than the residual vegetables that affect rivers and rivers, and that therefore have a fundamental transcendence in the situation of these ecosystems. And, of course, when you talk about laughter, you probably see each other with different eyes, we have different visions, some people see the laughter like a TV set. And the truth is, it's becoming more and more like a television series. And after Mr Feijóo's meaningful yesterday performance, the truth is that he deserves a leading role in the second meal season. Because he also has credible experience and great knowledge of the sector. So anyway, they hire him, they'll fix him for the new season. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Bará Torres addresses the President of the House.]] Is that what it is?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u230	No, it's an unfortunate expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u231	That's an insult, Mr. President. I don't know if you're not going to draw attention to that gentleman sitting there, on the bench of the People's Party, who's allowed to use the seat to insult, to insult! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u232	No, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u233	Because with what you say here in this gallery, you should be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u234	Quiet. Go on, go on, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u235	There are those who see the laughs — if, in any case, they feel satisfaction when they are so disturbed by the intervention of these gentlemen of the People's Party and Mr. Tellado—... there are those who see the laughter as scenarios of speculation and urban greed. [[Applause]] And this they also know a lot about the People's Party and Mr. Telmo Martín, who was not only convicted — indeed, his company was convicted by the Supreme Court — but his company built a six-storey building in public domain, and this didn't deserve any punishment from the Galician Council, despite the fact that there was a sanctioning file. There are also those who see the rivers as emplacement of polluting industries, as did the People's Party with the shameful extension of the Ence and the turning doors. The BNG, of course, rejects all these performances and all these ways of seeing the rivers and the coast. [[Applause]] BNG wants clean, healthy and productive laughs. And this is unfortunately not the reality. We think there are many reasons for the declaration of the emergency situation in the Galician rivers, which have serious problems with urban, industrial pressure, also with pollution and, above all, with the reduction of productive activity. This reality has much to do with the lack of political will on the part of the Government of Galicia to defend the sea sector and to clean up the rivers. And what we've seen in addition, because you assume here that you've made investments since 2009 of a billion euros to clean up the rivers, and the truth is they've done very bad to keep us laughing at the situation we have. And it is that you yourself in your reports believe this reality when you talk about 8,451 points of greenery in the river grid and in the rivers -- by the way, a river like Sar, which is the most contaminated in Galicia because of the inability to develop those necessary infrastructures -- or with 1,358 points of greenery in the rivers of Galicia, of which according to its statistics 300 and eight are polluting. A situation that is particularly worrying in the Arousa River, which is the most productive and, at the same time, the most contaminated in all of Galicia, with seventy-eight contaminants according to the statistics of Galician Waters. And now with new threats like that Touro megamine, with toxic greens also accredited by studies of Galician Union itself. And beyond the data given to us by Junta, there are independent studies in charge of the sector, such as what did the production sector in the Arousa River, which had to hire the University of Vigo to do the water tests, in the contaminants of the purified and unpurified waters, and which believe contaminated areas even in the environment of last-generation debuggers, as happens with the debugger of Cambados. This shows, therefore, significant deficiencies in the sanitation and purification network, which are a whole, and the insufficient or non-existent tertiary treatment in EDARs. At the same time, data from another study at the University of Vigo depict the decline in the employment of the productivity of the Welsh rivers. And it's only about the measles on foot that they're talking about the loss of 2,725 jobs, 41% of jobs, by the way, women's jobs. This situation, of course, has multiple causes. Many of them are political decisions adopted by the European Union and followed by the Galician People's Party's Union. Of course, it also acts and influences climate change, river pollution, urban pressure or industrial pressure. In view of this situation, BNG will support this initiative of the Socialist Group. And we also come up with some complementary proposals, such as the need for a comprehensive and comprehensive study, which we understand should be given to the University of Vigo, as well as an integral plan for the regeneration and exploitation of natural resources, production, tourism and leisure. We also ask the Government, as the law states, to make a general supply plan and, above all, a general sanitation plan, so that actions are planned and not done in an improvised and opportunistic manner and for party interests. We also ask that these dredging works be completed from the riverbeds of Pontevedra and Burgo and that the works of the debugger be completed as well. And finally, we propose, through an amendment, to sue the Government of the State — we hope that the Socialist Party will be sensitive to this request — the annulment of the extension of Ence to secure the future of the river Pontevedra, free from the plague of Ence, from the plague of the spinal doors and corruption, from the networks of the State sewers, from the PP, condemned for corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u236	Thank you, Mr Bará. So I'm telling you, you have to read the report, you have to read the report. Read the report, and so on... No, no, no, you know what I mean; I've been saying this all day. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u237	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Obviously, the sanitation of the rivers is a matter of vital importance to Galicia and its development. We're talking about a strategic issue for the country, we've been talking about very rough laughs for many years, a constant decline in the quality of its water that has a very negative impact on the productive sectors that depend on it. From our group we agree with this proposal and with the urgency of acting on the Welsh rivers, but we propose two amendments: A substitute on a sub-point with which we do not agree with the formula, and which we would ask that if it is not accepted or if it does not compromise that it would allow us to vote by point, so that sub-point we can vote differently. And we also provide an amendment to add to another sub-point, which has to do with the signing of the agreement to solve the problems of Compostela's EDAR, where we agree with the need to sign that agreement. But we propose an already concrete formula, which has been shown to be the most rational and socially and environmentally respectful, which is supported by the USC. And, therefore, we propose that this concrete formula be added. The other amendment, the replacement amendment, which we propose, has to do with the sanitation of the river Pontevedra. We understand, following the directives of the European Union and of the environmental groups on dredging actions, that they must be dealt with in those cases where they are highly justified and there are no alternative solutions and the impact is reduced. And we understand that in the stream of Pontevedra this is not guaranteed. So what we propose is that a study be done before, because we know the kind of mud that is in the Pontevedra River and that for many years the industrial complex Ence-Elnosa has been pouring mercury and lead into the Pontevedra River, by the complex privatized by the corrupt party Ence-Elnosa, a company that is condemned by the Supreme for this very reason. The river has its own life, it can't channel, and we have to understand its dynamics. Apart from it's impossible to try to control the river because it will continue to sediment wherever it wants or where it is left, which is very dangerous. And the dredging we understand — so we ask for a study — that it would be a short-term solution, but not in the medium and long term, and that other problems could also be generated by the kind of mud that contains the bottom of the stream. So what we're proposing is the realization of a rigorous study in the Pontevedra River that gives us a real map of the reasons why sediments are being deposited there where they are doing it and what kind of sludge they contain. Once we have this report, bring about the latest, less aggressive action on the environment and more favourable to the improvement of the productive sectors of the river. Because we all know that there are different infrastructures in the river that have changed the currents and the sediment of the river and the river, and we all know that Ence-Elnosa has been depositing mercury and lead at the bottom of the river. So we understand that the study on this issue is fundamental to offering a lasting solution. And I think we have the challenge, that the challenge is to turn Pontevedra's laugh into an engine for the region, for the municipalities, an economic motor for the municipalities of the river, to try to recover the thousands of jobs that have been lost in this creek. And, of course, if we talk about comprehensive sanitation of the river and if we talk about corruption, logically, we have to talk about Ence-Elnosa, of the privatized industrial complex between 2001 and 2003, with conditions adapted to a specific time of concession, which ends in just over a month, on July 29, this year. And we hope that the Central Government will not disappoint the citizenship of Pontevedra and Galicia and that it will fulfill its promise to bring Ence out of the river of Pontevedra. It is urgent to attack it now because, as I say, the extension of the concession has not yet been implemented, we are still with the initial concession. So, we understand that there are more possibilities and more formulas to be able to get Ence out of the river Pontevedra, which is fundamental to dynamizing this stream and turning it into an economic engine for the region. Here are different formulas and we have until July 29 to have a lot more possibilities, which could go along the way to walk by the derogation from the Law of Back, analyze the possible derogation from the irregular extension of the corrupt party, act on the non-compliances of concession, we can negotiate with the company and even consider the option of recovering a privatized company to the public, so that later we can make the decisions. There are different paths, there are many formulas, but from July 29 we'll have less. So we wait and ask the Socialist Party to comply with his word. And there's a PNL approved in Congress, traded between the PSOE and En Marea, to remove the Ring from the creek. So we hope that what the PSOE asked from the opposition will now buy it from the government. We understand that the citizenship of Pontevedra and the citizenship of Galicia couldn't forgive and, of course, couldn't forget that one missed an opportunity as we now have after the motion of censure and the new Government. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u238	Thank you, Mr. Cal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u239	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. A greeting to the neighbours of Pontevedra and the Coruña that are here today in full. I, Mr. Cal, thought you were going for the right line. You were asking for caution in connection with the dredging and also asking the Socialist Party to continue to defend what he was defending from the opposition, as well as what he was defending now to become compromises. But then you can, perhaps, put your sweater on and try to win some points within your ornamental party. And, of course, it's when you're the ones who say what's said about your party, because I mean the "ornamental party," but I want to remind you when you were also talking about that they were "a lousy stepfather." I mean, sometimes it's important not to move from the debate, and those unnecessary pulleys don't enrich the debate for anything, especially with regard to those who are listening to us and the rest of the Greeks. See, this initiative covers a lot of aspects: one about administration, about the competences of the Galician administration; another about the powers of the state or municipalities. It also talks about specific cases and other more general cases, about shellfishing, about debugging; it also talks about sanitation, planning, infrastructure, dredging and many other things. It is true that the initiative is so broad that it is very frustrating to have no time to speak at all and at the same time to defend also the amendment that our group has tabled. It is also very frustrating not to be able to heed all your allusions, Mrs. Vilán, but this is the format of the motions. What I would ask you, Mrs. Vilán, that you have a very unpleasant habit, is that you do not change or change my words. Because you have the habit of half-reproducing, half-reproducing as if they were textual quotes that produce here. And besides, we don't have a chance to replicate him and tell him: look, that's not said, don't reproduce him, don't act like he's indecisive, and don't lie, because that's ultimately a lie. Look, you're an acquaintance of the powers that the Galician Union has, and you point it out on the front line of your motion. But then he deliberately uses ambiguous and confusing language in some cases, and in others he uses certain expressions to transfer competition to Galician Union. For example, in the case of the dredge of the Burgo River, you ask that the board favor its immediate end. You know that the powers are the Ministry, and that's why we propose in our amendment "to call on the State to the urgent final approval of the dredge of the Burgo River and to the immediate bidding of it." The dredging, for those who don't know it, is just part of the problem dragged over decades of unwashed greenery of my city's creek. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The first thing to do was to improve the debugging backend. The Galician Union has invested more than 100 million euros in debugging infrastructures in the last fifteen years. The last two works of the Local Sanitation Plan are currently under way, which started last year. Moreover, since 2011 the Government of Greece and the municipalities of the area have taken forward the local sanitation plan of the Burgo River, which had among other objectives to eliminate urban vegetation, and has been greatly advanced by the municipalities. But it's true that there are still greens and the municipalities have to keep trying to eliminate them. And now what's left is that the new central government maintains the commitment shown by the Executive of Mariano Rajoy to the dredging of the Burgo River and carries out the final approval of the dredging and immediate bidding of it. With regard to point 1 of your cooperation with the Ministry of Energy and the Environment with regard to the economic sanctions of the European Union to Spain, I would like to make it clear once again that this is a complaint affecting 17 urban centres throughout Spain, of which three are from Galicia. The defence officer for Europe is the central government, I think through the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, not as you say for the Energy and Environment Transition, that I am not the one who is confused about this. And what you're doing here is to collaborate at all times and with full willingness to perform all the necessary actions. That's why our amendment implies that we continue to cooperate in accordance with the regulations applicable to the Ministry of Ecological Transition. With regard to planning, which you ask us to run fully this year 2018, let me tell you you're cheating, because you know it doesn't depend solely on the Galician Union. It is true that since 2009 more than EUR 100 million has been invested in sanitation and supply, and more than 300 sanitation actions have been carried out in one hundred sixty-five municipalities, and more than 300 supply actions in one hundred eighty-six municipalities. And despite having done more than six hundred performances, there's still something left to do. Of course you do, and you know it. And why does he know? Because, for example, in Poio, he was blocked for years by the problems he had in order to be able to dispose of the land by the responsible municipality. In the case of the Praceres, the final extension allowing compliance with the directive requires a processing of the exclusion periods of at least three years. With what you're proposing seems to be at least unreal, it doesn't seem to respond to a knowledge of the problem but rather to a political opportunism. And in Santiago, because you've already commented on it. Look, the construction of the new EDAR is a project that has been led by the Ministry that involves the three administrations: the state, the board and the municipality. It was a project where it cost a lot to decide on; there were meetings in 2016, 2017, 2018, and that was why there were commitments by all administrations. But suddenly, the Town Hall breaks up with all these agreements, both with the placement and with the distribution of funding. But, Mrs. Vilán, we are faced with an inescapable delay from what could result in serious consequences, such as the loss of funds, but above all the main thing is that this work is not going to be executed. For all this, if I wonder if I consider it a priority that Santiago tells with a new EDAR, the answer is yes, and that he must have it as soon as possible. That's why I trust the Town Hall will reflect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u241	...and assume your commitments for Santiago to have this necessary infrastructure. And that's why we want to urge the Council to sign the cooperation agreement with the rest of the administrations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u242	Mr. Trenor, your time is up. That's it, thank you. Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u243	Thank you, President. Indeed, it's an initiative, an ambitious motion because, really, this subject is a matter of concern. And it is only necessary to read the report of the Members of the Commission of the European Union which came in 2013 and which, in fact, warned us of the risk, of the serious danger in which our rivers are, which are very productive, but urgent measures were to be taken. Mr. Trenor, you're not as important as I literally quote you in my speeches. I spoke of the counsellor's words, not his. I talked about what the counselor said, not what you said. If I have to quote him, I do it here, just as I'm doing now, but I haven't talked about you at any time. [[Applause]] And I literally... [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u244	Quiet. Quiet, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u245	I literally quoted Gürtel's sentence. Maybe that literal quote was what bothered you most, I don't know. This initiative, as I said before, is ambitious. If you think we've been inescapable late, and they've been ruling Galicia for some thirty years, and in the last eight years, governing Spain, it would be good if you brought this initiative here. It's more: you, instead of worrying so much about going on lists to the Mayor of Coruña, because you can bring initiatives here about Burgo's creek and about the purification and sanitation of Galicia's rivers. And so everyone is so happy. And I could only intervene with five minutes and you would have ten, and all the interpeleration of the full past to intervene on your own. And it seems we're being blamed for doing our job since the opposition. That's right. Amendments have been registered by all groups. And that means that the initiative has enough weight and the problem has enough weight in Galicia to make everyone... I don't know if Mr. Trenor... President, I bid you if you want my time and that you go out here and we make a chorus between the two, which would be much more fun safe and would give you much more to everyone after eating. [[Murmurs.]] But you had your time and, in fact, spoke more time than he was, Mr. Trenor. Then I ask you, please, to let me intervene with some calmness. The Pontevedra creek has two ESC areas, Mr Trenor, and it has a problem of debugging. And we believe that with regard to the amendments proposed by BNG, the clearance of the river is as important as we have to go into our own purification and sanitation and the treatment of the waste of all the municipalities around us. We believe that part of what you ask for in your initiative, the BNG in particular, is already in our request and, therefore, we will not accept the amendments. Arousa's creek. Yes, indeed, it is in his amendment, but we understand that Ence has nothing to do with the cleaning of the stream. And that's why we believe that Ence deserves enough individualised debate only on Ence and not on the clearance of the Welsh rivers and the treatment of liquid waste, which is exactly what we're talking about today. The Arousa creek, in fact, is one of the most polluted. And most of all, they take it into account people who are engaged in shellfish, who are suffering by 25% less from their captures than last year. And by the way, Poio also sees you — it's true — to Pontevedra's laugh. Maybe you should talk to Mr. Telmo Martín and insist again that in Sanxenxo, in Pampaido, there was a magnificent place. And, in fact, you have in Galician waters a project and several projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u247	...on the pampaido debugger. With regard to the amendments by En Marea and the People's Party. The People's Party, of course, is not going to accept it, because nothing continues here, because nothing has been done. And I've said it several times that less than zero is negative. And with regard to the amendments made by En Marea, we believe that they might also in part deserve different initiatives and, therefore, we will not accept them. Thank you. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u248	Thank you. We therefore vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mrs. Maria Monserrat Prado Cores. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Did you ask for a point vote? Mrs Prado, do you accept the point vote? I think it's three points, right? That's three points? I've got three points in my memory now, but maybe I'm wrong. Is that three points, Mrs. Prado? Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Which one do you want to vote for, the last one? So let us vote first on the first two points. We vote. Vote of points 1 and 2 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the precarious situation of the labour market in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Points 1 and 2 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u249	Let us now vote on the third point of this motion. Vote on point 3 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the precarious situation of the labour market in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 37; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u250	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the situation of the Galician financial system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u251	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán. Amendments tabled by the groups were not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the treatment of liquid waste. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. They've finished voting, open the doors, please. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the implementation by the Galician Board of Directors of an autonomous observatory for the defence of transparency in access and management of research and university institutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u252	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u253	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, I want to begin my speech by also showing the pain on my part, on the part of my group, of the murder of the male violence in Porriño, because we believe it is something that should not be forgotten. Although this initiative, like others that we bring from our group, is linked to one of the major problems that is currently worrying and that is in shock to the whole country and the whole state, which is corruption and the measures to combat corruption, in addition to the convictions, as in this case of the People's Party, condemned for corruption after Gürtel's sentence, preventive measures in addition to convictions and criminal sanctions, which we are now seeing today, and which unfortunately will continue to play a role in the current politics of our country. In this sense, I would like to point out — I say with regret — that I was expected by the President of the House, Mr Santalices, a person to whom I am, by the way, esteemed and appreciated, so I am particularly sorry about what happened in the middle of last week when I intervened, and that, at least, I had a desire to withdraw the call to order that I received, because I was so illegal and unconstitutional as to address the freedom of expression of this Member and another Member of the BNG Group, of Mrs Ana Pontón, and that we continue to try to justify something that was unconstitutional and that was against freedom of expression, which is that the People's Party was condemned by corruption, as a corrupt party. I thank the spokesperson for Democracy, Mr. Joaquín Bosch, who once again at the national level, where there is no inquiry, said that what happened in this parliament was this unconstitutional, and it was against freedom of expression. We understand that for you, Mr. Santalices, that even the lawyers had to correct the interpretation that you have made of your report, that Mr. Feijóo has come out of your mind what you have done, and that you have a little bit now that you have to justify the marking that, probably, Mr. Puy and Mrs. Prado, the presidents in the shadow, usually do in this parliament, who consider their property and heritage to make partisan use and cover the shame of the People's Party. So I regret that, for example, we had to take another type of initiative, such as that of my colleague Eva Solla, my companion Eva Solla and I also asked for a report from the Legal Services to know which expressions we could use in this parliamentary debate in relation to the judgment of the Gürtel, of which we could not yet have an answer; given that Mrs Ana Pastor did not act like you in this House at the Congress of Deputies when the groups claimed that they were a corrupt party. That said, I make a proposal for the debate we had today. I understand that you are causing discomfort, just like all citizenship, what is happening with the People's Party and that they all include you in the corruption of your party, of your corrupt party. It is logical what Mr. Fernández Gil said, that because they exist corruptly in their ranks, and Mr. Puy said that there is no Member here accused — it is correct, I think it is true — but they have as easily as to get rid of their corrupt party. And besides, as now, using the sense of humor, it's fashionable to create parties, they can create a game in Galicia; we've already told them -- they can call it "In Galicia yes," "He did it," and then they're already detached from the Madrid PP, even though in Galicia's corruption cases they have to stay, you have to stick with them, and then they're already competing with Citizens and Vox, right there; they can even come to the coalition of elections if they go very badly in the polls. They're going to have to sing cases like Mr. Martín's, which he's usually making accusations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u254	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u255	...on alleged real estate Ferreiro. As I told Mr Pazos in Commission 1st, the Telmo Martín real estate, or the speculators Telmo Martín, they are indeed a case of structural corruption of companies and the PP, where a PP mayor is a member or shareholder of a company that later commits crimes, which are subsequently convicted by the Supreme Court, and above all over costs, over-incurrence of protected housing, of the most disadvantaged. And we'll know later if one day you know if there's Mr. Telmo Martín's prayers to the Galician People's Party, like when Mr. Pablo Crespo was doing business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u256	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u257	But, without counting on us that we are not going to numb this Parliament, we are not going to numb it, as it has happened in the past. I don't have any problems. Too bad Mrs. Prado isn't here, that she's talking about my group companion Mrs. Paula Quinteiro. It is true that lying is wrong to say that a person commits crimes when it is a lie, as Mr. Rajoy did with Paula, and that then what was thrown out and expelled from the Executive was Mr. Rajoy, by liar and corrupt. But, of course... [[Murmurs.]] I want to say something in honor of Mrs. Paula Prado. When she was implicated and accused by Pokémon, and by the famous phrase "sacrifice gifts," for at least she had dignity, to protect her tongues, to resign as vice-voke, even as a Member...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u258	When are we going to talk about university researchers?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u259	Yes, yes, it has to do with corruption. At least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u260	But when? When? When did you plan to talk about it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u261	... she resigned as a spokesperson and left, yes, her status as a member of the House as a fugitive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u262	Mrs. Santos, when did you plan to talk about university researchers?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u263	It's related to corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u264	No, I'm sorry. Yes, man, please! Well, don't rush that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u265	Because this is a context. When Mr. Tellado said that in the motion of censure there were groups that chose for employment and others that did not, I tell him and I will explain to you, Mr. Tellado, as a polytologist, that what was voted in Congress of Deputies was: corruption yes, corruption no; parties that supported corruption: PP and Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u266	The investigators.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u267	Because we live — and this is already part of the explanatory statement — in a period of crisis of credibility in institutions, to a large extent by the constant cases of corruption that affect the country and which have the great protagonist of the People's Party, condemned for corruption. And this bad credibility and this lack of good opinion on the part of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u268	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u269	...people in the institutional system are because of the People's Party, convicted of corruption. So it's up to us to regain the confidence of the citizenry, which goes through other measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u270	Quiet. Mr. Tellado, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u271	Please, Mr. Santalices, you are president of all groups, not the PP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u272	Quiet, quiet, please. Mr. Tellado, silence, please! Quiet. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u273	Mr. Tellado, I'm talking about corruption and I'm not going into the nonsense you say. Institutions must report public accounts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u274	Quiet, quiet, quiet. Mr. Tellado, please be quiet. That's it. Go on, Mrs. Santos, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u275	Home! Mr. Tellado, you've done everything and Mrs. Paula Prado, less to the point, before. So, I'm talking about corruption, which is what the initiative is about; the initiative goes about corruption and is making a contextualization of the current situation. I repeat: it is up to us to regain the confidence of citizenship, which you have stained and delegated the institutions, and, among other things, to improve transparency and good governance. Institutions must actively report their activities to society. This accountability also, of course, affects research institutions and universities, that of the country's cultural, economic and social development. In order to speak of citizen participation in these institutions, it is necessary to have visible, accessible and comprehensible information about its structure, its organization, regulation, objective, results, budgeting, use of public funds, hiring with third parties, and it is therefore essential for the proper functioning of research institutions and universities to advance on the path of transparency and access to information on government action and economic and administrative management and the results achieved by their activities. In order to end the lack of transparency, especially in the selection and access processes in research or university institutions, we propose this creation of an autonomous observatory to defend transparency in access and management of research and university institutions. Cases that happened in Galicia, which moved us personal investigators, who wanted to have access to the investigation aid files granted by the councillor, and that they didn't even allow them to be hung telematically, as they now do at European level, even at state level, but they were asked to come here to the council to see the file to see the barriers, and they didn't even allow them to photocopied the checkpoints of the file, but they had to watch in person and they couldn't even take it to be able to value it in research centers. We don't understand this being done this way. That is why we bring this initiative, because citizenship and professionals can have transparent access to this information. It's necessary and thank you. This observatory would act against other systemic problems of these institutions that cause arbitrary and unfair access to teaching and research careers, such as the precarious situation of their staff. In addition, it will serve as an alert system on the problems of transparency of bodies and processes of public research institutions and universities. We want this body to be open to citizenship and receptive to complaints about the lack of transparency, equity in the Spanish system and the German research system. The basis of every public administration should be transparency, now more than ever, access to public information and rules of good governance. When society is aware of the decision-making within institutions, of the management of public money and of the criteria that are handled to carry out the actions that affect us, we can begin to believe that institutions respond to the demands of citizenship and not to the demands of companies, to the demands of parties who are subsequently condemned for corruption and irregular funding. And we therefore believe that measures like these must have the consensus of the whole House, and there is no excuse not to vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. I will not go into any comments you have made, Mrs. Santos, because they were also addressed directly to the presidency. I have a very calm awareness of my performance, and I am absolutely convinced that, if you were the President of Parliament, your performance would be impeccable, absolutely convinced. [[Murmurs.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u277	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, too, to the people who accompany us on the guest bench. I believe that today, Mr. Santalices, I am stopping the whole of the House, they have either remained or are becoming two clear things: you can't numb a Parliament, you can't numb a Parliament or you can't try to cover the sun with a finger. You cannot try to permanently rewrite reality, you cannot. [[Applause]] And I think it's obvious, with each and every one of the interventions that are taking place here today: as much as it tries to distort, twist or even silence, reality always ends up impossibly. With regard to the initiative presented today by the En Marea Group, we have always defended since the BNG, with regard to the management of public administrations, whatever they are, whether the institutions of the public university system in our country, whether this House, any of the areas that make up the Government, we always believe, we always defend and we always support all initiatives and all measures to lay down "lights and tachygraphs", as it was said in the morning, but above all transparency, to guarantee the right of access to information, to establish control mechanisms in the various activities which these public administrations develop, and which are also responsible for management with these public funds activities, out, like all the budgets that are managed, from the pockets of the workers and the workers in our country. In that sense, we will also support, as we have done on other occasions, this initiative. We also believe — and rightly so — that universities have advanced much in the last few years in terms of transparency, in terms of improving and guaranteeing that right of access to information. They have on their websites -- they're accessible, in addition to anyone's -- the transparency portals. It is true that not all with the same criteria, not all with the same degree of disaggregation of information that can be consulted, but it is true that in recent years there has been progress — I say — in order to guarantee such access to information, in some cases also in recruitment processes, in the criteria that govern these processes and also in the management of budgets. In this plenary session tomorrow, we will also talk about just one of the major problems facing the universities in this country, which is precisely to guarantee funds and budgets enough to develop their role, not only as a teacher but also as a researcher. Some of them even — I was reviewing these transparency portals these days — as in the case of the University of Vigo, has adopted in 2017 a precisely transparent regulation to ensure such access to information to the entire educational community and society as a whole. We have already said that we will support this initiative, which we will do as we have so many times done, in order to ensure transparency, the right of access to information and, above all, the establishment of control mechanisms that allow us to know where the public funds are going, which, I insist, many of them leave the pockets of the workers and the workers in this country. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, I'm the truth is that I'm a little perplexed, mostly puzzled by the initiative, and I'm perplexed and I don't understand the operation of this initiative. I don't understand it, because I'm also going to refer to what's written, but also to what you said, Mrs. Santos. You said you needed this resolution because some researchers couldn't access the data you had to give to Joina. But how can you blame universities for data that don't give to Junta? The aid is granted by the Board. Then, to me, really, it seems like you want to extend a shadow of corruption and lack of transparency over some institutions that have never, ever, given evidence of that. I understand that, with everything that's going on with the People's Party, we've been talking about corruption for years and with a government party of what the courts have already said, that it was corrupt, we tend to think that transparency and standards are needed all over the world. But it's not like that. We must fight corruption that exists, not corruption that does not exist. [[Applause]] Because you don't have any evidence of a Greek university of malfunction or corruption, or of bad practices. On the other hand, I believe that somehow it is in ignorance of the functioning of universities, because, look, Mrs. Santos, first of all, this is against the fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution, which recognises to universities the right to autonomy. But that doesn't mean they can do anything. The right to autonomy doesn't mean they can do whatever they want. No, no, no, no. They have to keep an account. But the university, the universities, ladies and gentlemen Santos, report. You say, in writing and orally — you just said — that you want to have information about your structure, your organization, your regulations, your objectives, your results, your budgets, your recruitment, government action, economic and administrative management. Go to your webpages; it's everything; there's the organization, there's the government actions, it's the expenses. But you know, Mrs. Santos, that university expenses, university bills, are examined by an external audit, then they go to the Social Council — where are the unions, where are they, in addition to universities, the entrepreneurs — and then they are also audited by the Galician Social Council? But where is the alleged corruption? You also talk about this being necessary to avoid problems such as precariousness. No, look, it's just that the precariousness of professors and staff is not derived from the alleged opacity or systemic problem, it's because there's no money, it's because PP has restricted all university resources. That's where it comes from! [[Applause]] It's a money problem. Of course there is precariousness!, but there is because the government of Feijó restricts resources. There's no such thing. He says there's systemic problems. Mrs. Santos, do you know — and I suppose so — that all contracts and parking lots are made publicly? They're public. They're public. The courts are public. Because all teachers are public in this case, they are externally evaluated by the Quality Agency. But how are there systemic problems? I understand that there may be concrete irregularities, as in any place; yes, there may be some irregularity, a lack of compliance; I don't tell you I don't. But that's what the courts are for. And by the way, universities are also able to examine the problems they have inside or that they can suffer inside. By setting an example, the University of Málaga; by putting another one on it, the University Complutens itself in Madrid, which they have seen that a scholarship did not meet its obligations or that a professor was working in private. But that's what colleges saw, too. Look, we can't accept this, because, besides, I don't think it's even legal. Because, in addition, how do you intend to monitor universities with an autonomic observatory? That is, the People's Party, which is quite being to break the autonomy of universities, which, in fact, has entered the sack into them, by the way, like every authoritarian government that wants to end with universities, which first cuts income and then autonomy, how can you say that we put an observatory in the hands of the Union that still above examines universities more? I don't think we can, of course, go against a constitutional principle, we see no need. And what we do believe is that teachers, administration staff and students, who are in all bodies, by the way, government of universities, which are democratic enough for the entire university community to be in government bodies, will be puzzled by this initiative. Please don't take one another's corruption, because that's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u281	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The truth is, Mrs. Burgo, I don't think you understand why Mrs. Santos spoke and brought this here. He's absolutely right: he has neither feet nor head this proposal nor law. But what she brought is to talk about her book, she's the same. The whole past was one and had already been discussed in committee, and this time he took the first one that spoke about transparency or what he had been, to get here and devote the three quarters of the time to talking about something else and not about the university, because that -- as you see -- he doesn't know it, but he doesn't care at all. On the other hand, and talking about transparency, because that's what the non-law proposition he wrote, left-wing people like to talk a lot about transparency, but then when they rule it's the opposite. And since the Tides want to be more left-handed, it's really the ones that have the least transparency. Some data, because they already rule in places, so we see how they govern. Let me tell you about the Crown. In two years we lost seventeen posts in transparency in the ranking of international transparency, leaving the Spanish cities in two years! That's great transparency! [[Murmurs.]] But that's not all. We're still waiting for them to post some IRPF statements they said they were going to publish just before ruling. Three years ago, they could introduce some more. [[Murmurs.]] Of transparency? The mayor of the Crown has been on his frozen public agenda for two years; the previous one, from the PP, had published it. What's wrong? Two years with the same theoretical schedule. But look, the licenses. It's the only municipal government in Spain who hides licenses and takes them out of the government board so they don't have to teach the files, the only one in Spain! That's transparency. They used to teach it and now they hide, because something has to teach. But look, of course, that they question the recruitment of institutions that are transparent, like universities, and that are unpopular, as we have just heard, when you carry only 5,500 smaller contracts in the Coruña in 2017 — 5,500! — finger!, 5,500! [[Murmurs.]] That's right. Many of them turn out to be Sea Signers. And look at transparency. As we began the opposition and the media talking about the rival Marea signatories, it turns out that, by chance — within this great transparency of the tides — a few days ago, the list of signatories on the Marea website disappears. [[Murmurs.]] Of course! [[Murmurs.]] This is the transparency they're talking about! [[Applause]] Look, we know that you... I don't know if the tides... we're talking about transparency! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u282	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u283	We're talking about transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u284	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u285	Don't get me nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u286	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u287	That, moreover, Mrs. Santos doesn't mind me messing with Ferreiro, that she's from Podemos and the others are -- we know -- something else. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] But look, despite the fact that it is mandatory to publish public contracts — the minors, too — thanks to a law of the PP, which voted all the left against — including those of the United Left, now of En Marea — because it turns out that the Council of the Coruña does not publish them, it is not going to be that we see the signatories. What's wrong? My partner, Fernández Gil, had already told them: we must learn from lessons of coherence and commitment. What you can't say is one thing and, when you rule, be the most opaque of all Spain. But look, this is an example. I would say that, if we really need to make an observatory, I think we would have to make an observatory of the procurement of the tide governments, because that is a observatory we need, because I think that remains the examples in the few places they rule. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry, but I want to move my particular concern about what they wrote, so you said here in doubting one of the cleanest institutions we have in Galicia. And it's completely unknown how any contract is done— Mrs Burgo told her, I don't think I'm going to insist because she explained it perfectly—with transparency, publicity, public competition, just the opposite of what you're doing in the contracts where they rule. So I sincerely believe it is irresponsible to try to spot organisms and institutions that have their own control systems. It's just that you totally don't know him. In the squares there are representatives of the unions, there are barred scores, every step is published, there are external control bodies, there are transparency pages, there are ordinances and rules of internal transparency of universities. Today everything is done with absolute transparency and with absolute publicity and with the participation of all systems and collectives. By luck, other teachers participate, union representatives participate, pre-publish all things, there is absolute control. There is within the university own control systems, the Social Council itself, which is where citizenship is involved, there is control over the University Valor and the People's Valor. It's just that we have dozens... and above all, if you talk to me about European money, after all these controls, there's control over the European Ministry and control over the funds. Honestly, it's hard to find institutions today, more rigorous administrations. Of course, but asking for structure, organization, regulation, goals and results is not to know. Put it all down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u288	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u289	But if we have a specific body to control these things, the Galician Quality Agency of the Galician University System (ACSUG). But you just have to know a little bit and know how the various researchers and research groups stand out, with annual reports, with reports from each of the headlines. I mean, they're independent, external. It's absolutely unknown. Honestly, I think we're all clear that you don't care much about college. All I wanted was to have an excuse to come here to talk about your book, tell your animals to put a twitter to yours. And besides, the university matters very little, so we just heard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u290	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u291	...by learning his name.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u292	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u293	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr. Santalices, I thank you for your confidence. And, of course, if I didn't think my action would be impeccable, I wouldn't even accept the position of a Member. First of all, as far as intervention is concerned, thank you for the support of the Galician Nationalist Block and for the tranquillity that at least the BNG understood what we wanted to explain, explain and a little suggest on this initiative; less badly. Of course, I agree with Mrs. Rodil that she has made a great deal of progress, as I myself have explained, thanks to the professionals and all those mechanisms for publishing the warrants of contracts. Actually, I know them well, because I come from a research agency, and in fact, my specific place is to manage R & D from a public research agency. That's why I am more disturbed by Mrs. Concepción Burgo's totally visceral intervention, because she didn't understand anything. And perhaps when I put the initiative here in the exhibition, in the debate with the People's Group, I did express myself badly and said it was an initiative on corruption, when it was a better initiative on transparency. But not because there's a corruption problem in college, which I fully agree with you. No exposition of motives or nothing of my intervention goes on that line, I'd miss more, for God's sake! From the People's Party I won't say anything anymore, because we already know what I am and I won't even answer anything about the exabrupts and the text outputs they have, because I'm already what I am and there's nothing else to say. But I am surprised at you because, indeed, this is a complementary, never a substitute. It is a proposal that was in our programme at the state level and that we and I, in particular, considered to be a complementary body that would in no case usurp or attack the autonomy and freedom of universities or the OPI itself, precisely because I know its functioning perfectly. And not for corruption crimes but for certain irregularities or some questions. But not irregularities often with bad intentions, but for mistakes or administrative matters. Because in the recruitment of universities and research institutions, research agencies, sometimes mistakes are made, and the human factor exists, and it doesn't mean that they are cases of corruption, it would be missing any more! And, of course, much of the operation of universities and these OPI is thanks to the staff that composes these institutions and thanks to the researchers themselves and the teaching staff themselves, who are absolutely committed and committed to this work. That's ahead. In no case does this initiative go on about it and I want to understand that it has not been understood and that it will have to explain, because it does not hurt the best or kick the corrupt party to make bad interpretations, which, indeed, we want is a complementary measure for when there is some strange dilemma, such as the one I proposed and that I was moved — not the invention, they transferred me. It's just that I'm talking about the Council, not the university. I said to the Council, I said at the exhibition -- you didn't listen to me -- I said that they wanted information that they couldn't get about any barrages, and that we're talking about transparency and we're not talking about corruption... [[Mrs. Burgo López speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, if you want, we can continue to talk after this question, because, of course, the vocation of this initiative is to complement transparency, participation, and never to usurp autonomy or to put the institutions of university researchers on trial in any case, because they are the best we have in our country. And all institutions — all — are likely to improve and, of course, proposals are likely to be debated, if changed, to have nuances. You don't have to accept all the proposed measures, but don't give them that connotation, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u295	I think it was totally unfortunate, especially considering that I, belonging to a research agency, never, never, ever would go through that line, never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, of popular initiative, on the creation of a park of firefighters of direct management based on some of the municipalities of the district of Val Minor, where the current staff of the Supreme Emergency Group of the Commonwealth of the Val Minor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u297	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u298	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u299	Thank you, President. Previously, an introduction. Indeed, the People's Party is condemned for corruption and there may be a member or a member of the People's Party who does not like to hear this statement, and it is a political assessment of a judgment that is published, and it is real; it may not like it, but it is real. But this morning a spokesperson from the People's Party, Mr. Fernández Gil, filed a series of accusations about our parliamentary group that I think are not only out of place, but that they would have deserved a call to order if they were listening, saying that in our group we had people convicted of rape, arms trafficking and pederastics. That's what was said in the debate this morning. It seems to me quite grave and no favour is done to this Parliament by moving that sort of thing; if you were not a Member, it would surely be denounced by slander. The debate supports everything in this House, but there are judgments and there are slanderes. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There were 3,410 signatures, men and women who came to the fore with their signature requesting in this proposal not of popular initiative law a fire station in the Minor Valley; a right, an essential service that is emergency care in our country. An initiative that was promoted by social groups and by the municipal candidatures of Niger decides, Gondomar Open Council and Left United-Son Baiona. An initiative which has been carried out in this Parliament as a proposal not for a law of popular initiative, which we assume — because we believe it to be fair — and which has already been discussed in other instances, in other public administrations. In October 2017, as its lords know, Val Minor, its municipalities, the municipalities of this barbarum, suffered, like many others but in a very special way, the wave of fires in our country. It was one of the most affected and most lossful human, material and, of course, natural resources in our country and most punished by fires. It is not assumed that, after what happened in these councils during the summer months, during the autumn best of last year, of the people who unfortunately failed, of the burned acres, of the material damage, of the dwellings, of the obvious lack of resources to fill this service, everything has remained practically the same since then. At present, the Val Minor only has a group of supra-unicipal emergencies with twelve members, which is insufficient, the content of the data we have, to cover a bisbar covering a land of 145 square kilometers but which has, in addition, a high forest volume, a high population dispersion and a very considerable population concentration — 439,900 in an ordinary way, reaching around 100,000 or more during the summer months, by the characteristics that this area has. And, therefore, as in other parts of Galicia, there is an infrapower of emergency and extinction services. A GES managed by the Commonwealth of the Minor Valley which is insufficient to meet, as we have unfortunately seen in the fires, in the fires of last year, but also on many other occasions, because fires are quite common in the district of the Minor Valley. We defend that the Minor Valley has a firearm park of its own and that it is one hundred percent public and that the Galician Union complies with the Galician Emergency Act, 5/2007, which states, in its article 4, that citizenship has the right to an effective response to risks and to adequate protection in its integrity of its property and its surroundings, which, of course, could also comply with the rest of the rule. And we've already moved it. In November of last year I myself questioned the Vice-President of the Galician Board claiming compliance with the emergency law, once again to remind him of the need to comply with that additional third provision of the law, which have claimed the firefighters and firefighters of this country, that we must comply with and that we have been behind eight years. That provision indicated how these benefits and working conditions were to be ordered for professionals throughout Galician territory, for fire prevention and extinction services, and indicated in the rule itself that they were entitled to their profession. And the firefighters in this country still don't have a firefighter's status at this point, which regulates the profession, which equals the working conditions. And this has a lot to do with the need to end the privatization of fire stations. We have denounced them on many occasions, they only produce disappointment and precarious work; we have denounced it here and we have put on many occasions examples: the sinking of the New Marcos, the problems that occurred in the coordination of emergencies in the Fandicosta fire and other problems that unfortunately occurred in emergency services in our country and that have a lot to do with the privatization of services, the atomization of services and the lack of coordination of these services, resulting from the lack of coordination, which also has to do with those Articles 11, 12 and 13 of the Emergency Law in Galicia, which transfers the competences of the Government's Vice-President in this matter. And we also defend, I myself subsequently defended in the motion in December 2017 urging the Union, because of its participation in the management and financing of the provincial concerts — which is related to a BNG initiative that had already been approved in 2015 concerning also the enforcement of the law, that matter—which also started the proceedings for the public and direct management of the parks. So what we're proposing today is that the park that provides it has to be of direct public management, that is to say, a hundred percent public. He voted against it then and said on the part of the People's Party that he was going to take on the comarcallization of firearms, that he was starting a job. But, ladies and gentlemen, at this point and so many months later we can't announce or can't announce to the Government any kind of novelty in this regard. And unfortunately we're still not implementing any new measures, and we're already at the doors of summer for another year. And, therefore, it is fair that a measure is taken to provide this service with the different municipalities, of course not only those of the Val Minor, but, in this case, it is a popular initiative that demands the inhabitants of the municipalities of the Val Minor. So we need to increase the media, to provide that firemen's status, to coordinate those services. We have talked about the only command, which, in addition, contemplates the law itself, which eliminates this atomization derived from privatization and that comarcas, whispers like that of the Val Minor may have a service according to the extent, the population and the characteristics that the municipalities have of that bar. We have talked about it on other occasions, it is common to other municipalities, such as the secondary roads, the roads, the tertiary roads, as this area is articulated, and the need for faster intervention when there is unfortunately a problem like what we lived last year and that was precisely in this bar where we had to lament some human losses. And, ladies and gentlemen, it was also the Institute of Studies of the Territory that said, precisely in this Committee on Fires, of uncertain result, that fires, fires in urban and rural areas had doubled in 2017 in rural spaces, i.e. between urban space and rural space, at risk for housing, and much more difficulty with their extinction. Therefore, we cannot — we understand from En Marea and therefore have taken this initiative — re-subject the population to the same risk it suffered in 2017. And it's not about going back here to a debate where we blame the different administrations or the blame on the different governments, but about taking action, which is what the population is asking for right now, to provide services that at least try to prevent dramatic situations like those we lived last year. I believe it is our responsibility to bring this kind of initiative to this Parliament. In the municipalities of the barge and in the man-community itself it has already voted in favour of this initiative, and we want to see today taken this popular initiative, which is not ours, which has several thousand signatures behind it, if this Parliament is sensitive to providing these services and we can try to prevent misfortunes like last year's in the Minor Valley. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u301	For the BNG this is certainly a necessary debate, a debate on the Greek emergency system and its territorial coverage, also on the urgent deficiencies and needs to change and to improve this system, because it is clear, it has been sufficiently demonstrated with the fires above all in October, the discoordination, the precariousness of the media, the precariousness of work and the lack of single operational command, for example, that it has hampered the response to that emergency situation, with also exceptional situations that have been experienced, for example, in the district of Val Minor and in many other regions of the country, where there has been the overflow of the existing media, especially the lack of coordination and single command. And this was, in addition, recognized by the Government itself in the memory of the 2018 budgets, when we talk about the need for CAE 112 to achieve integrated and comprehensive emergency management, recognizing that it is not currently that way. The BNG, as it has already stated in the debates on this issue, advocates a structural change in the Greek emergency system that meets the following criteria: it must be a Greek system, with full powers, including those of maritime rescue; a public system, a universal system, with effective coverage, especially in times of response throughout the territory and for all population; an integral system that contemplates all emergencies; a system, ultimately coordinated, with a single operational command, because we are talking about an absolutely fundamental system to defend lives, to save lives and to save goods. And we have to remember in this regard, which is something that has to do with the substance of this non-law proposal, that there are fundamental and concrete issues pending to resolve; firstly, the question of territorial coverage, maximum response times and poor coverage, which Mr Rueda has acknowledged here at least — he said — in five areas of the country which are badly covered. We'd like to know what these areas are and we think, in any case, there are more areas that don't have good coverage. The second pending question is that of the comarcacalization of the parks of the cities. A working group has been announced here, but we don't know any progress on the proposal. In addition, this is a recurring issue that is announced every time there are difficulties and problems. The third urgent issue has to do with regulatory development and compliance with the Emergency Act, which has already been in force for ten years and which has pending issues appearing in the additional third provision, such as, for example, something that was foreseen in the first year of the vigil of the law, which is the elaboration of the regulation of the professional firefighter or homogenization within three years of the benefits and working conditions throughout the territory of Galicia of fire prevention and extinction and rescue services. All of this is pending, and it's time for the Government to put on the task, put on the work and put on the table solutions to these demands. And also with regard to the specific question of the Val Minor and the proposal for the creation of the firearms park and the integration of GHG personnel, we have, first of all, to say that this Parliament — this group — must express public recognition to GHG staff, especially for its work with regard to the response to the major fires that took place in October 2017 and which seriously affected the region of the Val Minor, and that with a shortage of means and with absolutely discriminatory wage and work conditions; conditions that are beginning to be corrected with the recent approval of the convention of the Val Minor Commonwealth staff, which was approved in May 2018 and which is expected to improve in labour and wages conditions, with a forecast of increase in wages and also with a forecast of staff increase, which will pass from twelve to eighteen people. And with regard to the fire department, we think that this question deserves a study and a delayed analysis, it deserves a negotiation and dialogue in which all parties are present and that the Galician Union, the Parliament and the Commonwealth, are present, to study and analyse the improvement of emergency coverage in this geographic area, also in other areas of course. In addition, we think that this study should also take into account the proposal for comarcalization of municipal parks and parks in the vicinity and also that it is very related to the development of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, which is unfortunately paralyzed by the clashes and the partisan and localist positions of the Union and the Vigo Council. Because it's precisely within the framework of the Vigo Metropolitan Area where a demand and a service of these characteristics should be met. In short, we think that the goal should be to respond to a social need, to the improvement of an absolutely vital service for the district of Val Minor, which has population characteristics and orographical characteristics that deserve a substantial and fundamental improvement in the provision of this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u302	Thank you, Mr Bará. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u303	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by exercising my freedom of expression, as the people who preceded me, to clarify some questions, some certainly related to certain assertions that Mr. César Fernández was accused to my companion this morning. I want to read them something. You'll understand that the scurvy—right?—of the subject almost saves names. He speaks of a member of Podemos, who "sent as leader of Podemos in Burgos and as number two of the party in the Courts of Castilla-Leon in October 2015 after being published that he was convicted in 2002 for abusing a five-year-old girl." A few weeks ago Mr. Erezón rescued him as a member of his list to the address of Vistalegre and managed to get him to join the City Council. I entered this morning on the page of Podemos -- if you would, I'd like to ease it -- on the page of transparency. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document.]] Here it is, here it is. I'm saying that because some people seem to be very offended. In fact, there are judgments and judgments, there are crimes and crimes. I also want to make it clear. [[Applause]] It also seems that someone was very shocked by the sentence that affected a mayor of the PP and was very concerned about the issues that affected those poor people who had been abused and so on. Of course, then a reading like this: a job fraud convict will form Podemos candidates for 2019. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document.]] She's an intimate collaborator of the Pudding Tide, which I think, after these examples, we can already directly qualify for the Pudding Tide; it's the Pudding Tide. For, yes, indeed, they are also condemned for the use of weapons; also, that too; firm judgment; so as not to scandalize anyone. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I think they're in time to review people who are part of their governing bodies. In the meantime, I would appreciate it if you could save some kind of lesson. Let's go to the question we're concerned about today. I want to show our respect for this popular legislative initiative, which seeks to improve the situation of the GES of the Val Minor, although I think that, being fair the claim made by the neighbours of the Val Minor, someone has confused them and brought them the wrong instance. And I have to say this because here they made the two people who preceded me in the use of the word mention of Galician Emergency Act, in their article 4, to additional provisions. They seem to have forgotten a bit of reading what I was putting in the middle, which I'm going to read to them. Article 26, the provinces. You've seen what your responsibilities are. "Correspond to these:"—participated e): "Ensuring the provision of the civil protection and emergency management service, including fire and rescue services, in those municipalities which do not contain their own services, because they are not obliged or have obtained exemption from them". I'm surprised you don't know this law, I'm surprised you don't comply with this law, and I'm especially surprised because, as you will know, the law is Law 5/2007, approved during the Bipartisan Government, during the Bipartisan Government, gentlemen. And I am therefore sorry that Members come here without knowing what the powers each of them has in this field. It is an exclusive municipal competence, compulsory in municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants, and for those of less than 20,000 inhabitants it needs — and it is required by law — the aid of the provincial deputy. The problem is that the Provincial Deputy of Pontevedra also doesn't know what their competences are, and that's why they give such unfortunate circumstances as those we saw, for example, few days ago in Tui, where a president of one of the MPs announced that he suspended his entire agenda to coordinate emergency and rescue work — of course, a competition that this is exclusive to the Council of Galicia. But when you have to go take a picture, it's worth everything, to use the most complicated moment of Tui's neighbours. One of the most miserable attitudes I've ever encountered in a public representative, and today I deserved to be told here; lamentable, lamentable. [[Applause]] Look, this initiative has been submitted to approval in the counties of the Val Minor and the Deputy. The counties of Val Minor approved it and the MP voted against it. Both positions are legitimate. It's true that some socialist mayor of the Val Minor had to leave the whole of parliament to avoid making the ridiculous voting different things according to where he was, but they're both legitimate. But look, what has to be is consistent. The Deputy announced the creation of new emergency parks — 2016 — they have exclusive competence; they haven't created any. It announced that it would move from an indirect management system, emergency services, private management — the Socialists insist — to a direct, public service — which they say. They said it was cheaper. Now they don't, because they say we have to put more money -- something curious about a service that was cheaper. And there was also someone who promised the immediate functionalization and incorporation of the staff -- right? -- to the fire department, lying to the workers, because they know that can't be. And you can't lie to the workers and you can't lie to the neighbors; it's unfortunate that you do. So, let's start telling the truth, let's start telling each one what he's doing. I'll answer here what you did to Junta, because I know him well. In fact, the Union has made a proposal for a comarcallization of the city fire stations. By the way, I think the Minor Valley would be very good enough to shorten the times of emergency. They have accepted the cities of Santiago, Ferrol, Ourense and Lugo, and will count on the support of the Galician Union and the Deputies of the Coruña, Lugo and Ourense; there are no colours here. There's a deputy who said no, and it's Pontevedra's, and there's a council that says no, and it's Vigo's, and they'll have to explain why. Because if they're so worried about the emergencies of the Minor Valley, they'll have to explain why they don't do anything to solve them. Financial support. See, Junta puts for the GES of Val Minor €167,000 each year; deputy's contribution, 50,000; Commonwealth contribution, 52,000. With a difference: the Union has no competition, and, despite that, it contributes, and those who have competence come here with an initiative in which they skip this, as if it were a dog pushing their fleas, saying that it is assumed by the Union. But if it is your responsibility, Mr Bará, that you are the ones who co-governing in the Pontevedra Deputy! I know you've focused on composting, and it's very good composting, but it's also ensuring a viable emergency solution to the people of the Minor Valley...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u305	...it wouldn't be wrong either. By the way, in addition to this, in the matter of staffing, 71,000 euros more in the last three years: total land, boats...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u306	Thank you, Mr. Pazos, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u307	Look, there's no need for new organs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u308	Thank you, your turn is over, thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u309	What I ask you to do is focus on those who are already created, and what I ask you to do is accept the amendment so that we can improve in something the emergency service of the Minor Valley. Good luck and I hope they say yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u310	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u311	Yes, thank you, President. It is also preliminary, although it holds as preliminary something nuclear for parliamentary debate is a bit excessive, isn't it? But, Mr Pazos, it is miserable to defend freedom of expression in the terms in which you have just defended freedom of expression in this House. [[Applause]] Because I believe that the 75 Members who make up this House we believe deeply in parliamentaryism, the 75 Members who make up this House we believe firmly in democracy and freedom of expression. And I, Mr President, with all due respect, but with all clarity, and as a Member of this House, in a way I reject the action of this House's presidency in the past plenary, because it has brought to the attention of Members and Members who have expressed the reality reflected in the condemnation against the People's Party contained in the ruling of the National Court 20/2018, of corruption in the Gürtel case. Because this action, Mr President - and I consider it to be the Member of this House - is seriously against the freedom of expression of Parliamentarians and Members of Galicia. And when we come to the issue that also brings us to this intervention, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I am already making progress, Mr Pazos, that we are going to support this popular initiative. It is true that this initiative began to act and process in the weeks following that wave of fires in October 2017, which unfortunately had as an epicenter in this case the council of Niger and surrounding areas. Of course, at that time, the data from that nearly 50,000 ha-thousand disaster, of 53% of the wooded mountain, of 23% of the Natural Network, led our parliamentary group, in various initiatives and also in the debate of the non-permanent Commission itself on forest policy and on forest fire prevention and defence, to present a whole series of initiatives precisely to claim a new emergency map. Because of that — and today, to see what the conclusions of the Committee on Forest Policy are — we clearly denounce, by the parliamentary group, but by all the agents involved and by all the professionals in the sector, the excessive fragmentation of devices that intervene in the matter of saving and extinguishing fires, from forest firefighters to urban firefighters, GHGs, municipal brigades, volunteers and even UME. It is not a system, as we have consistently denounced, which can guarantee, on the one hand, neither the single command and, on the other hand, the operationality and effectiveness of the fire-fighting and rescue services. And at the meeting of the vice president himself, Mr. Rueda, on November 21, we were told, talking about emergency programs, that the Vice President and Counsellor were working on that new map to give an effective response to prevention as well, and he was talking about reaching 90% of the territory in 20 minutes and reaching the new emergency map to 95% of the population. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we also advocate, in different initiatives, in the corresponding interpellation we formulate and in the subsequent motion, by a single model, public, of fire-fighting and rescue services, with even unique organizational and functional dependence. We also request — and it is yet to come — a report by the Galician Civil Protection Commission, where we were informed of all the problems identified in terms of the territorial coverage of the system, risk analysis, service operation, operational coordination, resource inventory, programme of implementation or financing of the emergency system in Galicia. These issues were never dealt with in the report we received in April in the Commission. Therefore, the Galician Union has a lot of work ahead in emergency matters, and there is indeed the emergency law itself, approved during the Bipartite, which is not fulfilled in many respects. The circumstances of population and territorial extension, the urban-forest interface in the area of the Minor Valley, geographic conformation and, of course, population increase during summer time obviously require the provision of the Val Minor from an integrated fire station — I suppose at the comarcal or provincial level — in higher structures. And in addition, we have an important embryo, because the twelve emergency group staff currently working in the Commonwealth have a very high professional qualification, but not enough, either in terms of resources or in terms of competence, to work within what is the emergency law system as such firearms park. The Provincial Parliament has, in fact, submitted to the Galician Council a series of proposals for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u312	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u313	...to try to supply the shadows that exist in many territorial areas of the province, from Cerceda, Cotobade, A Lama, Fornelos de Montes, The Road, Campo Lameiro, Ponte Caldelas, Covelo, Mondariz, Crescente, Arbo, The Cañiza, Rodeiro, Oia, The Guard, The Lower Mine complete.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u314	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u315	We are therefore going to support this parliamentary initiative, but who does not seem to be supporting precisely the proposals on com-arcacalization and staffing throughout the territory of troops in less than 20 minutes is the Council of Galicia, which has to respond because it has the highest emergency authority in Galicia, and so they know. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Solla Fernández, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u317	Thank you, President. I believe that the members of the People's Party and Mr. Fernández Gil have the ability to defend themselves. In any case, you know that there is a regulation that refers to mistakes, and, of course, when you are referring to our parliamentary group, you are dealing with a series of mistakes and a series of slanders about our parliamentary group. You should have reviewed the curriculum of Members and Members and, of course, the absence of any connection with that which you move here. I would like us to be strict, because other parliamentary groups, of course, assume more sensitivity when referring to rulings on their own parties. None of the organizations present here have convictions for illegal financing. From my parliamentary group? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u318	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u319	Then they tell me when the initiative is over, when the debate is over. Let's talk about the initiative. I must thank the support expressed in this case by the Socialist Party. And I'm going to talk about the amendments. With reference to the amendment tabled by the Nationalist Block Galego, we thank the proposal, although we consider it not necessary because, both the Commonwealth of the Minor Valley and the various municipalities, have already voted on it in plenary and it is already approved the same initiative. So it would be sterile and extend the process even longer. We believe that being in June, at the doors again of the foreseeable fires — which, in fact, have already occurred on some occasion — the only thing that would delay, as happens with the amendment of the People's Party. I believe that in the proposal made by the People's Party, one looks at the proposal of a fully public fire department, what happens, Mr. Pazos, is that in the amendment you refuse to study it in an emergency group the origin of possible creation. This is not the initiative of En Marea, it is a popular initiative, and so what they would do with this amendment is probably leave it in a non-application, and in a non-compliance with the content of this which we want it to be approved. We want it to be endowed, and indeed it would transfer the BNG voicer to the conditions in which GES are, which of course do very good work, but there are 12 troops to meet all the emergencies and fires in the bar. We understand that it is not true that he has no competence. We have to read the whole Emergency Law, and we have already moved it here to the Vice-President when we were talking about articles 11, 12, 13 and the rest of the articulate that speaks of the coordination of the various administrations and responsibilities of the Galician Union in that sense. If we want to talk about compliance with the emergency rule, I insist that it's been done for eight years. We don't have firewalls; we have privatized parks; we have an atomization of services and we have a disorder that unfortunately causes problems, as we have already seen and as it has happened in the fires and in the fires of Fandicosta. We've talked about it before. So it's not like you're running the bulk. If the Galician Union adopts this measure and believes that it has to coordinate with the other administrations, it seems normal to us, but it is not this Parliament that has to prolong an initiative which has been demanded since last year. We now bring it to the debate because the signature collection process has ended, it is available to enter and we have assumed it. But you know your lords that this is neither an initiative nor an initiative to confront the representatives of the various public administrations or, of course, to get them to face...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u320	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u321	...—now finished—the non-compliances of the different articulates of the law. I insist. The People's Party has been failing the Emergency Act for eight years, so please apply the story more and more to support this initiative. If you wish the proposalors luck, I suppose you'll have no problem voting in favour of it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs. Solla, I'm sorry, I didn't point. The amendments don't accept them? Thank you. [[Mr. Fernández Gil asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mr. Fernández Gil? [[Mr. Fernández Gil pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Fernández Gil's chair. What is the inaccuracy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u323	Inaccurateness is a manifest inaccurateness. Right now, he made reference again, saying that I in the morning, in an intervention, related the Members of the En Marea Group to criminal attitudes, when I meant it was precisely the opposite. What I meant was that neither the Members of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, nor any Member of this House, had to be held responsible for excruciating attitudes leading to members who could participate in their political space. In the same way that none of the Members on this side of the bench have to take responsibility for excruciating attitudes that Members or people who share political space can carry out. That's a manifest inaccuracy, because it was said that I wanted to attribute criminal attitudes to the En Marea Group, and in no way was it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u324	Thank you very much for the clarification. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members of the People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and others, on the preparation by the Galician Council of a report on the possibilities and circumstances open with Brexit, in commercial terms, with regard to the Greek fisheries products
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u325	This initiative has been presented with an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u326	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u327	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We are going to talk again about Brexit, as we have already spoken on occasion in this Parliament. It's a long negotiating process, it's an uncertain negotiator process, and Galicia, from the very first moment, has wanted to be prepared, especially in fisheries matters, in the face of the uncertainties that may arise. Just yesterday, the British Parliament, the lores, tabled an amendment and supported a veto that Parliament itself could put on the government in relation to Brexit. We don't even know what this process is going to be like, whether it's going to be in the middle or in the long run; so it's important, it's interesting, that Galicia is ready for what it can come. For the negotiations that are being held now in the European Union, but also later, in the case that the United Kingdom remains outside the European Union. Before I went into the subject strictly fishing, I would also like to talk about a barometer that was introduced by the Galician Economic Forum and the Free Zone Consortium a short time ago, which was also talking about export and export companies, and reached both the Greek products and also fishing. He said that one third of the EUR 4,400 million positive balance of Galicia's trade balance — more exports than imports — depends on the products marketed by the United Kingdom. So we play a lot of money in economic value, in Galicia's trade balance, of course, in jobs and wealth for this autonomous community. As I said, the process is crucial. We understand, from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the Galician Council itself, that there are two important points in the negotiating process, and there are two important points about how Galicia might be affected. One is now trying to negotiate market agreements and marketers at the moment, but another may be an opportunity — for this reason we are proposing this GNP today — if the United Kingdom of the European Union does come true. The main focal point now, during Brexit, is understood to be an agreement with the United Kingdom and an exchange of mutual access between fishing and market. That's how Galicia sees it, so you see it by the main actors or affected by this process, by this Brexit. Galicia exports relatively little to the United Kingdom. In Spain it is EUR 75 million in 2016, but the United Kingdom exports Spain, especially Galicia, a very high volume, which is EUR 203 million in 2016. 70% of the fishery products exported to the United Kingdom are destined for some Community country, they are destined for Galicia, they are destined for Spain. So they, the United Kingdom itself, will also be interested in being careful not to lose that market, so there could be some concession that could benefit us directly from Galicia. Another focal point — as I said — is when the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union, if that process is going on, because — I insist — that vote may put a brake on the Government and slow down the procedure. The secondary point would be later, and that might be interesting in the fisheries sector to negotiate relative stability again. That is to say, we could once again negotiate as an independent community, not as a member of a European Union country, relative stability in areas where the Welsh fishing fleet operates in waters of the United Kingdom. The impact on the European fleet and the Galician fleet is high. The potential in Galicia would be about 66 ships with base port in Galicia and would affect about 800 crew members; 25 ships of Greek capital and British flag, which would be about 240 crew members and around 150 million euros of billing; 20 ships in the waters of the Falkland Islands, of the Malvinas and Spanish flag, and 690 crew members. That would be around 103 million euros of billing. So we're talking about very high figures and a process other than our administration -- a process that arose in the United Kingdom itself and can affect directly, and the sector itself is also what alerted the administration and what made reports independently, on the margins of the Galician Union, by this procedure. The main unknown, if there is a hard Brexit — which, I insist, is no longer so clear — is whether the fleet that works in the Great Sun and on the Falkland Islands will be expelled from British waters. In that case he would be looking for alternatives in other fishing areas, and then he would have to know that he could also keep his activity under certain conditions. You have to be completely alert from Galicia, of course, from Junta. From the very first moment that Brexit was mentioned, reports have already been commissioned, decisive and important for the fleet. And we must also be alert now with the change of government. I have already told the 8th Commission that we are going to be vigilant with the Minister of Planes and with the Government of Mr Sánchez, as we were also in the reign of Mr Rajoy and Mrs Tejerina, who played a very important role in the denial of fishing quotas. [[Murmurs. Rice.]] The Secretary of State who has just appointed is not exactly a person who is known in Galicia for his successful decisions with regard to Galicia. So we're going to be vigilant, because we know that the Government of Sánchez Galicia is very far away. We see he won't meet deadlines in the infrastructures. We're already seeing a lot of the things the Socialist Party of Galicia said here in Galicia, so we're going to be watching from Galicia's board and the Popular Parliamentary Group, of course. We defend Galicia's interests, that's very clear, and we're not going to leave them alone. Xunta herself has already commissioned a report to the director of the Instituto Universitario de Estudos européennes Salvador de Madariaga, and José Manuel Sobrino Heredia, to assess the consequences of Brexit for Greek fishing; a study that has also presented here also the Fisheries Adviser. He commissioned a report to the Applied and Expert Economics Professor at the University of Santiago, María do Carme García Negro, to analyze the economic aspects of Brexit to Galicia and its impact on the main affected fleet of the Great Sun. Those are the roadmaps and the reports that Junta is considering to negotiate and to defend Galician fishing interests. He also sought, and sought, a union of regions with common interests, member states allied in the defence of interests against the United Kingdom, with Santiago's statement, with participation in the Cardiff Conference and also the signing of Cardiff's statement. Therefore, reports have been made from the Greek administration itself, but also reports from external consultants, from the fisheries sector itself, to guide and to know how to work so that Brexit affects Galicia as little as possible, and in case that separation from the European Union is already effective, that is an opportunity for products marketed from Galicia. The report on the economic impact of Brexit on the Greek fishing to which I was referring is extensive, but I will highlight the following data, which I consider interesting. It figures the possible socio-economic impact of Brexit in more than 533 million euros only with the fleet of the Great Sun, of which 96 ships are part, as I said before. It pretends that the Great Sun fleet is an example of fishing managed under a standard of sustainability, which cannot be lost. It should be noted that around half of the 81 sectors of fisheries activity would be affected. And it reflects that Brexit would have an impact of 140 million euros only on the remuneration of employees, and 9.3 million euros on the amount of net taxes paid by the product. So they're very high numbers and volumes of business; it's wealth for Galicia, it's economy, they're jobs, and therefore we have to keep on alert. Today we want to take one more step. We want to go up one more step on the proposal for a report on the marketing of Greek fishery products, because it is true, as I said before, that it is a point that can be an opportunity once the United Kingdom is outside the European Union. So we think it's very important to know what the impact might be, but also to turn this process into an opportunity. That is why, seeing the possibility that the United Kingdom loses its direct access to the European Union's markets through the European Union itself, we, from Galicia, could do these negotiations independently. It is therefore important and interesting to urge the Council of Galicia to report on the impact of these marketing products on the fisheries sector and to be able to work in accordance with the conclusions of that report. That is why it would be interesting if this GNP were to leave Parliament unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u328	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. By the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u329	Good afternoon. In what we agree with the rapporteur, the People's Party Member, Galicia is very much being played at the level of fishing. It's evidence, we saw it saying. What we no longer agree on is the strategy to follow. We play very hard, and the reality is that Galicia has no political capacity to negotiate. German nationalism, of course, has always had the political courage, against the prevailing propaganda, which promised us gold and moire, a life of wine and roses, to warn the people of Greek of the negative consequences of integration into the European Union. We made proposals to improve our decision-making capacity; proposals that demanded that the policies that liquidated our productive sectors were changed. We have clearly expressed our opposition since the integration into the common market, since that would mean ruin for large sectors. The Maastricht Treaty, the European Constitution. Unfortunately the diagnosis was right, the consequences are in sight and the scales for Galicia in general, and for the sea in particular, are evident. Galicia is a highly fishing-dependent zone, and we represent more than 10% of the European Union's fishing capacity, and all of this potential runs counter to our political capacity. You just told the People's Party Member that we're going to be vigilant. And all this about being vigilant translates, on this initiative, into asking for another report. The full capacity of a country translates into reporting and derogating reports. It is very frustrating, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the ability to influence something as relevant as, indeed, such a negative trade balance between Galicia and the United Kingdom in the face of this departure from Brexit... of course, that you come here to say that you're in the middle of the United Kingdom of the European Union — I don't know — it seems a little... I don't know what to say to you, right? The problem is we don't have the political capacity to negotiate. In the Spanish state it has been demonstrated in the last cases, laboratories and so on that take us to check. And that for the last time you come back here to bring the request of another report to transfer... it would be good if they were to demand that Galicia be present where we make decisions that are relevant to us. And on the subject of fishing is very relevant to Galicia where the decisions are made. There they are neither expected nor expected, and in all the initiatives we have brought here to be clear and determined where decisions are made, you don't want to know anything about that matter. We tabled an amendment, because it is good that reports be made, but it would be good for those reports to be moved here to this Parliament. That he had a little respect for the German Government and, apart from asking for the reports, he presented them to this Parliament. That is why we tabled an amendment calling for them to be moved to this Parliament before the end of this session. In addition, one thing that seems also to us to be of minimal respect, is that the German Government, the Galician Union, present in this Parliament the strategy adopted or to be adopted so that this exit from the United Kingdom becomes an opportunity and not a problem for Galicia. What is the strategy of the Greek Government to become an opportunity, beyond the report goes and reports come? At this point — you referred here to the data of a report which is known by the media, because the German Government did not have the right to present it in this Parliament — the data and the relevance of the importance for Galicia in that relationship with the United Kingdom are more than obvious. So, in view of that, it would be good to know what the real strategy of the Greek Government -- beyond the transfer of reports -- is that it becomes a real opportunity and not a problem. Because we already know what the result of integration into the European Union was. We already know what is the result of the principle of relative stability, which is not changed. We already know what was the result of the common fisheries policy that has just been adopted, and where those principles that are underpinned by this common fisheries policy have not been changed for Galicia. We already know all the negotiations and all that system in which this common fisheries policy is supported so damaging to Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u330	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u331	And, of course, BNG and most of the sector in Galicia would like to know what the real strategy is, beyond moving reports to others who will negotiate for us. And, of course, BNG would like us to have the German Government explain to us the real strategy beyond reporting. That's why we expect them to accept the amendments we tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u332	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. I call on Mrs Toja Suárez from the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u333	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. So today we've been listening all afternoon and all morning to the PP Members asking for respect. Here, in this Parliament, they are asking for respect. And I wonder when the MEPs and the PP Members have cared about this respect here in this Parliament. I'm asking you, yes, I'm asking you. [[Applause]] And the answer is simply since that sentence exists, since there is the sentence that convicted PP civilly for corruption. [[Applause]] That's what there is, because until now we've never heard them ask for respect or any of it. That's right. Yes, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, when you belong to a collective... there you are showing all respect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The same respect they ask, they're showing it right now when they let me speak freely. When they're in a collective, they're part of him, and they have to assume and share their values or, in this case, their absence. You're in a collective that's the People's Party... don't signal me, I'm not in the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, don't signal me. No, no, no, please, that's not true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not at all, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u334	Quiet. You can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u335	Thank you. That's absolute respect. On the other hand, I am also very grateful that the honourable Member of the PP says he will be very attentive to the Government of the State as far as Europe's policy is concerned. Well, I also tell you, look, seven years rule Rajoy totally from behind Europe, without leaving any kind of footprint in Europe, and now, at last, Spain is back on the European Agenda; now, at last, it's back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, gentlemen; yes, thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in the end, what are the consequences? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Toja Suárez refers to the presidency.]] It's just that I can't. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u336	Quiet, you're a Member trying to talk. On both sides, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u337	I respect you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u338	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u339	I respect you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u340	Quiet. For everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u341	And all of them, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u342	And all of them. On all sides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u343	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u344	All right? Thank you. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u345	Thank you. The consequences are the data showing the last active population survey. In one year, Galicia lost 4,400 people employed at sea. That means 1 out of every 5. But in the case of women, it's much worse, because it's 1 out of 3. Those are the policies of the PP. That's the result of the way of ruling: being totally alien to fishing and totally alien to what happens beyond it. Because it is not a question that the Socialist Party tells them, but we always remind them that it is a matter that says the regulation of the common fisheries policy, Article 17. Fisheries allocations must meet an environmental but also social and economic criteria. And social means fixing the population. Fishing has to be used to fix the population in coastal villages. And economic means that activity is economically profitable. That's right, that's Europe, that's European politics. And that's what you have to sue for. It's a good thing we're here today for a report. But we're going to ask them to read their reports, because in a report they also spoke as an opportunity for Galicia the Bivalve Laboratory. In a report they made to Brexit, this had been written, which was an opportunity for Galicia the Bivalve Laboratory, and it turns out Galicia didn't even ask for it. Therefore, reports are requested, since they do and do not bring them here to the Committee on Fisheries to share with the rest of the Members, at least you read to us. [[Applause]] On the other hand, we need to understand this initiative a little bit, so we're going to abstain because we don't understand it. And we don't understand very well what you're going to do about it... report what? A report to report on something, but really — as you have explained very well here — what will the situation in the United Kingdom be? Will you stay in the single market?, won't you stay? There's going to be a tariff union, isn't there? So we're hard to understand. You have spoken here about exports and imports, but you have pointed out a very important fact, which is an issue that we cannot lose sight of: for every euro of water products, of sea products, for every euro that Galicia exports of water products from the sea, it imports 1.5 euros. That means we are totally export-dependent. And there is a study, which you know very well, that is the New Economics Foundation, which says that all the fish that consumes Spain — and therefore Galicia — comes from the imports from 26 May. We are only self-sufficient, able to supply the consumption of fish that consumes Galicia and Spain until May 26, from there, all that fish comes from imports. You're talking about the trade balance, the exports... taking the full picture. Speaking of fishing, what is the situation of imports and exports to fish in Galicia? That's what we asked him to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u346	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u347	Yes, a little while, please, that I've suffered quite a few interruptions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u348	They're already discounted. It's already 30 seconds. Finish as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u349	And on the other hand, since you bring here today the request to make a report on marketing, I'm going to tell you this: are you worried about marketing? A lot of us. For if they are concerned about marketing, this is Programme 723a, of budgets. This program is what contains a marketing game. In yellow is what could be done, in green what they really did.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u350	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u351	Executions between 2010 and 2014 do not reach 30%...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u352	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u353	...and in 2017, only 37%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u354	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u355	Are you worried about marketing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u356	Mrs. Toja, you've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u357	They run the budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u358	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all of you. Once again, we can do nothing but show our surprise at this initiative. It seems more to appear that this Government does something about this than to exercise its responsibility. A report on these issues, a study of the Instituto Universitario de Estudos européennes Salvador de Madariaga, of the University of Coruña, has already been carried out. In the present study there is an entire chapter dedicated to the impact of the UK withdrawal on matters and areas of interest to the Galician fisheries sector, from which I draw some notes not to extend. In other words, British fishing is absolutely a tribute to the access of its products to the European market. For example, as long as a new framework of relations is not established, the United Kingdom will be regarded as a third country, it will have to pay customs duties in full. Fishery products from the United Kingdom must pay tariffs. And it concludes by concluding that, ultimately, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom does not have to harm the Greek fishing sector. There will be aspects where you improve your situation and there will be others where you can get worse. But, in any case, the fundamental thing — in our judgment — is to be in negotiations and carry out a continuous follow-up on them. Almost a year after the expiry of the previous study, in June 2017 you were assured, in the voice of the Fisheries Adviser, Mrs. Quintana, that Galicia cannot afford to wait to start working, assuming that Galicia was the first of the European Union's regions to make a report on all the edges Brexit could have for the community. As you said, Mrs. Egerique, there was still a new study commissioned by the expert in fisheries economy Carmen García Negro on the economic consequences of the UK's departure. We don't know anything about the previous study. If it was finally concluded as you say, we'd like to know the conclusions of the report. In January this same year, we have a new PP initiative in which the Galician Union is urged to create a forum that will allow Brexit's follow-up and evolution, in which the economic and social partners participate and serve to reflect on the consequences of the agreement and its further development, as well as propose measures to adapt to the new reality of each area. Could you let us know what stage the front of the forum is in? What were the conclusions and initiatives derived from it? What information about negotiations relevant to the sector are they hiding? The reality is, in the face of a process of enormous importance to Galicia, given the weight of the fishing economy in our country, it seems that nothing or almost nothing has been done, and still today it is about covering up that lack of action. How is it possible for us today to request a report to know the impact of the process that was adopted more than a year ago, since the British Government invoked Article 50 of the Treaty on Union in March 2017 and the referendum was adopted in June 2016? In view of the facts, it seems clear that neither responsibility nor commitment to Galicia. So from En Marea we think we need to stop talking and start working to secure the employment of the 1,040 crew members of the Great Sun or more than 700 of the Malvinas. But, above all, to draw up a roadmap that enables us to gain market opportunities for our fishery products. The opportunities for the negotiation process should serve, for example, to articulate the following needs: to derogate the principle of relative stability, to obtain greater fishing quotas, to reform the labelling and marketing policies of sea products which harm Galicia by favouring unfair competition. Will the Government modify the PP-driven rule in Europe that allows a single process to be done in Galicia to be sold as a product, as it happens with the preserve, actually converted into a mere tuna packager imported from Asia? Finally, the PP should clarify an issue with this initiative. As you learn from your exhibition, is it only designed to defend the interests of Anfaco, the tuna canister? For when is the same interest in defending shipowners threatened by this competition from Asia, or the workers affected by importing clean backs, which prevents the most jobs in Galicia? It remains in his hands to convince us, gentlemen of the corruption party, of the need to carry out new studies, not as a makeup, to conceal the absence of concrete actions from the Fisheries Council, delaying any action again pending this new report, but to propose, as we have already said, the roadmap of concrete actions to be assumed as an Executive. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u360	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u361	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, I didn't doubt that Brexit had been or wasn't a reality. I said the time, the immediacy, is not now so clear; that's what I say, the prolongation in time or not. So we have to be ready. Look, you're saying you're taking the clairvoyance, that it's a report. It is data, reports, responsible for the fisheries sector itself, experts and people who know the fisheries sector itself, so that Galicia is prepared and therefore defends and knows on which land we move to start negotiations there in Brussels. The Fishery Counsellor, the Sea Counsellor, has been present in most fisheries negotiations that reach Galicia, and will continue to be, as you have since been counsellor, because she is perfectly and very involved in what will happen to Galicia after Brexit. Mrs. Toja, less actions and actions, as they've already told the Government on occasion. Because look, we're going to stay vigilant and I'm going to tell you why. We had some ministers of Development and others, who were going to negotiate in Brussels, who put Galicia and the ship in the tax lease, who left Vigo out of the nodal port network, who left Galicia out of the Atlantic corridor... so maybe we were sloppy. Now we're not getting caught again. We're going to be very vigilant, because this is an interesting process and we know that the socialists, Galician, nothing. Now it turns out that you forget about AP-9 on the subject of fees, we're already seeing that Galicia, in the government of Sanchez, paints nothing. So we, from this Parliament, are going to be very vigilant in Europe, of course, and also in infrastructure. Mrs. Torregrosa, you want us to convince you that, because you are talking here about a report that has very interesting and important information about the fishing sector, and then you say that Brexit may not affect it as much as it looks like Galicia and the fishing sector in Galicia. Cite that study and then doubt that it can affect the terms in which we say. What we really want to do here today, what we want to adopt here, is a more commercial report. I'm going to read the resolution so they know exactly what we're going to vote for. "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to draw up a report on the possibilities and circumstances that are open with Brexit in commercial terms in relation to the Greek fisheries products". The possibilities and circumstances. We need to know how we can be stronger if the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. Mr Prado, with regard to your amendment, if you accept the point vote, we would be delighted to refer the report back to Parliament — which is the second point — before the end of this part-session. Junta already tells us there's no problem sending it back. We would therefore vote in favour of that point. At the first point you say we're talking about the board strategy, when the advisor came here, on his own request, to explain exactly what we're doing. The three speakers in this debate have just summarized this: the reports that have been made, the negotiations in Europe. That's what Junta is doing, it's the roadmap with transparency. Hide what? If it's a problem for Galicia, we have to turn it into an opportunity and reach everyone. So we would accept the second point of that amendment. Besides, to refuse this report, which is going to be enriching for the fishing sector, for Galicia and for us all to win in the fishing sector, we don't understand why you have to reject it. Now we know we have to convince them. Of what? Convince them of what?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u362	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u363	What we're working on, and fortunately, we have a majority we can approve of this and we can know a lot more about the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u364	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the establishment of composting as a universal model for the treatment of urban bioresidues in the first quarter of 2019, as well as to study the possibility of collaborating with the Provincial Deputy of Pontevedra in the development of the Plan Revitaliza and its extension to the rest of the territory of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u365	Two amendments were tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u366	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u367	Thank you, President. This is an initiative on composting. It's actually a proposal to Europeanize the People's Party and the Galician Union. We want, in fact, to be European, modern, advanced and innovative on a subject, in addition, which will mark the environmental agenda in the coming years, which is urban waste and, above all, bio-residues. We want them to join the unstoppable path of recycling and composting. You who talk so much about circular economy and waste transformation into resources, here you have the circular economy, the transformation of waste into resources. Compost high class, highest quality, Revitalize model of the Pontevedra Deputy. [[Applause]] A European model, innovative, modern and advanced that has the opportunity to move to other parts of the country. Then, if they want to touch the product, I can bring it up so they can check its highest quality and also try what composting means. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it's not just about being modern and European. It's mainly about taking care of human health and the environment around us. So, look, this system is based on self-sufficiency and proximity, and so it's supposed to largely eliminate everything that has to do with the collection and transport of waste, as well as with environmental and economic savings that this means. BNG therefore wants to Europeanize, modernize, the conservative right, and also wants them to comply with the law, because, as you say, the laws are to comply with them. This is yes, when they're interested, some laws don't comply with them, and that's why the People's Party has been convicted of corruption. We want them to comply with European legislation... yes, yes, we want them to comply with European legislation on waste, in which important regulatory changes are taking place in recent times that there is nothing else left to do, they won't get caught! There is an absolutely demolition and disturbing reality of rules that have to be complied with, starting with the European Waste Directive, which has just been reformulated and which will have to be transposed in the coming months to state and autonomous legislation; also the Framework State Plan for Wastes, the Pemar, or the amendment that is in the process of State waste law. What this law says, in addition to what state legislation says: that before 2020 — although it is a year and a half, there is a year and a half, and you do not want to know — household and commercial waste intended for re-use and recycling, including bio-residues, will have to reach at least 50% recycling. At the end of 2019, there's a year and a half left and you don't want to know. Just as it provides for the amendment of the state law, which says — as it says — the obligation to collect biowaste separately from the wastes to be used for composting or anaerobic digestion. And secondly, ensure that the treatment of biowaste collected separately is carried out through domestic and community composting or specific installations. Precisely what you've been doing, for almost two years, the Deputy of Pontevedra and many municipalities in the province of Pontevedra, also governed by the People's Party, even though you've been accused of saying that the Pontevedra Town Hall is not authorized, you have no authority for community composting centres, although there are no regulations governing such installations. They come here to accuse the Council of Pontevedra, curiously, and they do not come here to accuse the Town Councils of the People's Party that have also installed these community composters, how curious! Well, the Union and the People's Party, instead of modernising themselves, instead of Europeanising themselves, what they do is they don't comply with the law, they're in an asylumed state, they're in the mountains. They went to the hill, they threw Cerceda, they threw Sogama, and they started that real monster that, of course, if it made sense ten years ago -- I don't know, I'm not going to enter that debate -- really now, with this policy framework, of course it doesn't make any sense, we have to stop it, we have to go back, we have to reform it, we have to go in the other direction. A centralized system, with the dispersion of the population in Galicia, which has very high economic, social and environmental costs, makes no sense. It is absolutely irrational because it involves the collection and transport of bio-residues — which are in their 80% water — all over the country to burn them, and that the only thing that has to do with circular economy is the circular economy of Natural Gas and Fenosa, who supply the fuel to dry and burn and who also benefits from the energy production of the Cerceda complex. That's the circular economy practiced by the People's Party; that besides, as has been said repeatedly, it has very low rates of recycling that do not reach 5% and that doesn't even meet the parameters to be considered energy recovery, as Sogama's own memory recognizes. And despite the evidence that it's an obsolete system, that doesn't comply with the law and that even does not comply with the Greek Waste Plan itself, it turns out that you're still betting on incineration and have recently approved the expansion of Sogama to treat all the garbage produced in Galicia. And yet they boast about it, they assume that with enlargement they're going to treat more than a million tons, which is practically all the garbage produced in Galicia. They just bid two macrocontracts, which account for nearly 500 million euros, for enlargement and management for fifteen years to a company called Valtalia. And also another transport macro-contract for ten years. This, in practice, involves a waiver of the separate collection of organic matter and the treatment and composting of bioresidues. Against this amendment of the law that is being processed and which is to be approved shortly, the only change that seems to be a delay in its entry into force; Femp is asking for a year to be delayed, therefore, to 2021. But it's inevitable, there's no other, they're going to have to change the system. And I say they fulfill their own plan because the revised plan, the yellow waste plan, revised in 2016 to, in theory, comply with Pemar, foresees nothing more and nothing less than 11 composting plants. You plan one in Cerceda, which we haven't just figured out whether it's for local waste treatment or whether it's for large producers because they've been changing over time, but there are ten comarcas plants that we don't know anything about. Therefore, they will not be able to comply with the plan itself to treat 245,000 tons of bioresidues that would be necessary to meet that 50% recycling before the end of 2019. So explain to us how these plants are going to be built from here year and half to meet. I don't know how you're going to do and the fines they're going to fall for failing to do this. That's right, you're campaigning for individual composers, but we're not glued together, that's not worth it. That's a nice thing to be right in front of the gallery, but it's not to apply state and European directives and standards. And while both PP and Junta travel back and away from Europe, it turns out that the Pontevedra Parliament is an example of modernity, Europeanism and respect for the environment with the Revitaliza Plan. Maximum quality compound, bioresidue composting, home composting, community and plant composting. It's an ambitious and new project that awakens interest in the state and Europe. Recently, the Extremadura Community, the Andalusian Community, European countries, in Brazil also want to implement this system at the University of São Paulo. You're awakening interest, and you don't want to know. It's a revolutionary experience because the costs of collecting and transporting bioresidues are eliminated, and it's betted, above all, by composting community. And it also has a great social benefit because it involves people, the community, the treatment of the waste it produces and its transformation into resources. This is also very important. And it also has very innovative elements such as the creation of the Faculty of Composition, which allows the formation of so-called MECO, masters and composer masters, to develop and implement the whole process, because it requires trained professionals to effectively develop the whole process. And he's also associated with a research project at the University of Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u368	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u369	So — finished — instead of sabotage and boycotting, as they are doing in Pontevedra and in the Deputy, I say, not in other municipalities, they have an opportunity to be in modernity and in Europe. Don't be afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, step in. If they don't do it now, they'll have to do it in a few months. They're in time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u370	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u371	...summary of community composting! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u372	Thank you very much. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u373	Thank you, President. Today we're going to talk about waste, we're not going to talk about incineration, about burning one at a time or deciding not to burn the bonzo, but we're going to talk about composting. We believe that the policies of the People's Party always end up burning or incinerating something, what happens is that they burn everything they take in Sogama, and everything they don't take, they bury it. That's your environmental policy for waste management. [[Applause]] Your plan is obsolete, said the representative of the BNG, and it's true, it's obsolete. It is continuous and it does not power prevention, which is fundamental in waste generation, nor does it promote reuse, recycling and recovery, which would prevent so many tons of waste from being taken to Sogama to incinerate. In fact, in Sogama's own memory last year, it's said that there's a high percentage of improplies in the selective collection of yellow and organic bags. Impropios is the trash that is mistted where it should not be removed. And why? Because selective collection is not promoted, prevention, recycling or recovery. We are, for example, in the yellow bag, above the average of the State in impropriety. And the same memory says that we need to expand on-site management, of course, especially because we have a very powerful territorial dispersion and because treatment plants are far away. 45% of the waste being transported to Galicia is in a truck -- and we don't say so, you said in May at the Board of Trustees -- and since the garbage is not packed, especially what we transport is water that we could recycle. We believe that composting of urban waste, which is what is proposed here, is a solution, but it cannot be either single or universal, simply because not all organic waste is compostable. And I'm going to ask you a question like this, in the air, for all Members and for all Members. How many of us here and those we're here are pulling out the pizza boxes used in the paper container? I'm sure you're almost all of them! Well you can't throw them away because they're stained with fat and the fat doesn't go with paper, you have to separate it, and it's very difficult to separate; and you can't pull it out to do composting either. That's one of the problems. That pizza box that I'm sure we consume in lots, we can't compost with it or we can't recycle it to make paper again. That's why the composting system should be complementary, if it should be preferable to others, but not unique or universal for the recycling of urban waste. It is true that, as Europe tells us, we need to meet the target of recycling of 50% of urban waste before the end of 2020. We may also have to make regulatory changes to reach that limit. But what BNG proposes here is radically changing the original collection system, including containers, and we don't know how high it is, how much cost it would cost, nor what composting system would be used, and everything in a year is unfeasible. That's why we made an amendment. The truth is we need a change in the management of urban waste, and yes, yes! With closer management to where the waste is generated, with recycling, separation and valuation plants attached to each waste. Taking what's left of Sogama, but only what's about, only what's about after going all the previous steps. The Sogama system will have to be complementary and with funding for actions to improve selective collection and prevention, especially through awareness, education and also domestic and community composting, but not universal. We would generate less waste in Sogama and avoid greening. Europe is against greenery. Let's go to zero green. In the year 2030, the European Union's idea is to eliminate all the landfills, which means that it would disappear from the recycling hierarchy system. We are in favour of composting, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the PSdeG. In fact, the first government to bet on composting was the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, of which today is precisely 13 years old, so today we are on anniversary. I can't share composting, but I'd like to bring confetti and throw it, because we think it was the best government this community had since democracy began.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u374	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u375	And I'm going to finish. With regard to the second point of the non-law proposal, it is true that the parliament has put in place a plan, the Revitalization, which gives priority to composting but does not establish it as the only recycling system. That is why we ask that our amendment be accepted and, in any case, that we be accepted to vote on points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u376	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u377	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. On the one hand, Mr Bará proposes that the Board address the Deputy of Pontevedra to cooperate with his plan. Junta probably doesn't want to interfere with local autonomy, and you should know that local authorities are responsible for collecting, transporting and treating household waste. So it's the local entities themselves that are legitimized to choose each system, which they consider most appropriate. With regard to the issue of opening a dialogue process with the Deputy of Pontevedra, we are somewhat surprised, because, as you know in this Parliament, the Director of Environmental Quality, the Deputy of Pontevedra never presented his plans or the actions he wants to carry out or to seek help. In any case, I am convinced that if you ask the Galician Council for help, this collaboration will not be denied. But you should know that the Galician Urban Waste Plan itself establishes the selective collection and avoids establishing a demarcation, a specific zoning, and closed for the primary treatment of this fraction, and leaves it in the hands of the competent, of those municipalities or communities that want to start this collection, that decide this situation, the area of influence and the capacity of the necessary treatment plants. On the other hand, I celebrate, Mr Bará, that you had noticed that composting exists. I'm surprised, because even when he ruled his party at the Galician Union there was already Sogama, and he was promoting composting and distributing composers, and you came here in 2018 with a discovery. But I celebrate, in any case, that he discovers that he exists. Sogama continues to promote composting, and the public company will launch an industrial composting plant in its plants in Cerceda with capacity for 15,000 tons a year, in which it will deal with organic matter from the neighbouring municipalities. So by entering the Revitalized Plan of Deputation, you propose to us the Plan Revitalize as the peer-first of all models, and on this I want to make several comments. First of all, the community composters that are expanding, promoted by the Deputy of Pontevedra, you know that these are waste management facilities that do not have the corresponding environmental authorization. So you're asking to cooperate with the Deputy of Pontevedra that you have facilities that do not comply with the law. I think they have little to do there until they regulate those facilities. There is no formal communication from the Deputy, nor from the Pontevedra Town Hall, in order to authorize these facilities. And the conditions under which these community composters operate are relevant, since they include temperatures of up to 75 degrees centigrade, oxidizing atmosphere, high relative humidity of air, possible discharges from PH up to 5, so this is a waste management facility that needs authorization and you are not requesting it. On the other hand, on the Plan Revitalize we'll see the numbers, which is the relevant one. They have 6 million euros spent on the Plan Revitaliza. What is the savings and efficiency in waste management? So look, over the past three years, the province of Pontevedra has diminished its population, they've spent 6 million euros on composting, and eventually, the result is that it continues to send more garbage than ever to Sogama. So, where's the savings? It's funny, because while in other provinces the population is also reduced, the shipment to Sogama is maintained or even reduced on many occasions, but in Pontevedra it increases. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That little bag you brought us here, Mr. Bará, is a very expensive purse, because it costs 6 million euros and it's spending even more on paying more waste to Sogama. With his exposure, more like those TV vendors, he just missed saying one thing: take a bag after every meal. You've got a nickname on this subject to expose it as a salesman on these TV sales programs! It is a pity, Mr Bará — and I am telling you now seriously — that these 6 million euros had not been allocated to the Pontevedra Deputies, for example, to the neighbors of Tui, who are hoping to have resources for the Pontevedra Deputies, and not waste them, as they are wasting them, in a business like composting. [[Applause]] It's a model, the Plan Revitalize, which, curiously, of the 61 municipalities in the province, only adhered to 29; and of these, only 5 go to the second phase. You've seen how successful you are, that of 61 municipalities only 5 municipalities, 8%, want to move on with this model. And you want this model that doesn't want it or the municipalities of the province of Pontevedra to assume it to Junta de Galicia and extend it across all provinces, across Galicia. This really, Mr Bará, doesn't make much sense, doesn't make much sense. I repeat the cost: more than 6 million euros. This does not count any more of the Members' own staff costs. But if we're counting on the aid, the subsidies, the purchase of composters, the circular economy that works in the BNG, in which, for example, a BNG comarcal manager is hired to give composting courses... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u378	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u379	...yes, pode courses, or even -- because it's also good for that -- hula hoop classes, because that's how it's documented. It goes for all this comarcal manager! That's the circular economy of the BNG that we don't want in the Galician Union or in the People's Party. So we propose to you a transaction, if you want to accept it, but of course we will not accept a model that is failing strictly in the province of Pontevedra. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u381	Thank you, President. It's all right here. We've already criticized someone giving hooop hula courses. I'm going to make a very brief slaughter, if I may, Mr. President, it's the last intervention, and I don't want to mess much out of the matter either. It's just by nudging the justification Mr. Fernández Gil made for his intervention. I understand that yes, that the justification you made is real, I understood that way, of course, but I expected that, when you asked for the word for its justification, in addition to apologizing for the unfortunate intervention you had in this regard. Because you've made a triple tremor to put that question to this plenary in a very dirty way, because it was a comparative that doesn't make any sense. You say, just like we do, because a person related to a party commits a crime we don't say the whole party commits that crime, we demand the same. We don't say that the People's Party is a corrupt party because a People's Party person commits an act of corruption. It's just that you have no relationship, there's no comparison in any case! We say the People's Party is a corrupt party because a judge in a trial said the People's Party benefited from a plot of corruption. That's why we say it, not because a member of the People's Party... the People's Party has benefited from a plot of corruption, of course! [[Murmurs.]] Didn't you benefit from a plot of corruption? No, don't say it, of course, we have to say it textually... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what the sentence means. We already know that you came out to support the gentleman... and I don't expect much more from you either. I understand you made the argumentary Mr. Tellado, but you know you've been totally out of place, totally unfortunate, and that there's no sort of comparison between one question and the other. With regard to composting, of course, for a proper environmental policy, to move towards the best waste management model possible to comply with European recycling directives, it is essential to invest in responsible composting. To start the overcoming path of the Sogama model, even though from the Government we are told that the model is an example to follow, data says it's not. The Sogama model is not sustainable, it's not profitable, it's environmental, it's social, it's not economical, and the data speak for themselves. There is no literature here able to disguise the environmental barbarity that the Sogama model entails; a model of the last century that no responsible administration should defend. From Europe you mark the target of 50% of recycled material by 2020, and proud of the Sogama model, and not investing in a plan that completely changes the direction of the model, it will be impossible to achieve this figure. If this is to continue, in addition to having a prejudicial model for the environment and for the Greek economy, we may also have to deal with a sanctioning file in the future and risk new subsidies from European bodies. Europe's recent touch on waste water management should serve as a turning point for the Galician Union to take Europe's environmental conservation directives seriously. Since the People's Party has no environmental sensitivity and implements predatory policies of the environment — hence, predators of the present and predators of the future — at least heed European directives, so as to avoid the predatory policies of the environment to benefit the friends of the turning doors and payments in B do not cost citizens money in the form of sanctions to the administration. Composting must be one of the priorities in the waste management model. We have already argued that, given the accumulated level of knowledge and given the experiences already developed in other areas — local, comarcal or provincial — as is the case today with the Galego Nationalist Block or as the examples of what we are talking about, the Galician Union must define a yellow composting plan for the fermentable organic fraction of solid urban waste, sewage sludge, biomass of vegetable origin and analogues. We understand that this plan should include, among other measures, public control in waste management, inventory of compostable waste, estimates of volumes of compostables, measures to promote compost-related research and market studies on compost assessment. It is necessary for the Galician Union to cooperate with the municipalities and the deputies — such as this case of Deputation and Pontevedra — in order to dynamize composting plants composting compost, local, community or vidual, as the case may be, and stop transporting water throughout the territory of Greece, so that it will finally end up in the incinerator for the benefit of Natural Gas. The intended project to install a macro-verter in Lousame, which brought nothing new, is a runaway forward, just like the incinerator that is intended to be installed in Teo, which already has against most of the neighborhood. By action or by default, the People's Party is allowing a waste management model that is predator for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u382	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u383	We therefore asked the People's Party to implement composting policies from the Government. Obviously, we will support this initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. You have the floor by the non-law panel, Mr. Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u385	A first clarification of the amendment of the Socialist Party, because I think it has a contradiction. We're talking about bioresidues, and of course they're bioresidues. Both the European Directive and the state law, as well as the rules of the Union themselves, make it clear what bio-residues are. In the case of Plan Revitaliza there are manuals of use, there are courses, which perfectly explain what bioresidues are. You, in your amendment, speak of preference and complementarity, which I think are two incompatible terms, are contradictory. But there is no need to use these words, because the preliminary draft law is amended so that the Waste Law makes it perfectly clear: "to establish in a mandatory way." It is not a preference or a supplementary one, it is a mandatory one. It'll be mandatory. See if it's clear, especially for the People's Party, it's going to be mandatory. I also read it in Spanish, whether or understand better: "The separate collection of bioresidues to be used for composting or digestion anaerobics, in particular the vegetable fraction, the bioresidues of large generators and the bioresidues generated in households. The municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants will install the separate collection of bioresidues before 21 December 2020." It is now under discussion if one year is delayed this date; it is a decision that the Government of the State has to make. "Second. To ensure that the treatment of bioresidues collected separately is carried out through domestic and Community composting at specific facilities." Clearly, it can't be said, therefore, it's neither complementary nor preferred, but compulsory. It's got to be mandatory, it's gonna be mandatory. The People's Party, Mr. Moreira — you always have to do some paperwork here, of course — first because you didn't know it either, you shouldn't read the latest update of the Board's waste plan. The Cerceda plant, for the treatment of 15,000 tons — according to what you said — would force the selective collection of the municipalities in its surroundings. But you say that Junta can't impose selective collection on the municipalities. But it's not going to be a zonal plant, it's going to be a plant for big producers, because they noticed this problem, that they had to impose on them, the municipalities that have already hired the collection system, the selective collection. So let's see if you're reporting well. And he didn't explain to me how 245,000 tons of bio-waste will be treated as provided for by the Galician Union Plan. By the way, with regard to parliament and the municipalities, there are not 29, 36 municipalities in the province of Pontevedra who joined the Plan Revitaliza, among them: Round it, Sanxenxo, Salvaterra, Valga, Rodeiro, Silleda, Campo Lameiro, Soutomairo, Baiona, O Rosal — and I follow— of the People's Party. So explain to me why the Town Councils of the People's Party are in line with this plan that, according to you, they don't comply with the regulations, they don't have compost regulations; explain to me why these municipalities are breaking the law. Do you know what's going on? There are five of them who took the step to phase two and were very smart, very smart, because they're going to anticipate what's going to be mandatory in a short time. I will offer you a transaction of three points that I will transfer to you in a timely manner, in which you propose the application and compliance of the provisions of state, European and Welsh legislation on bioresidues; the review of the Greek plan and the reformulation of the Sogama plan; opening a process of dialogue with Fegamp, Members and Councils to study the most effective way of meeting these obligations laid down in the law and adopting a specific regulation on composting bioresidues. I'll translate the text from the transaction, and I hope we can come to an agreement, because it's a matter of a lot of transcendence that's not going to be any more remedy than to start over the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u386	With regard to the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have not heard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u387	The transaction will be inclusive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-19-DSPG076.u388	All right, thank you very much. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
