ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] Good morning again. Let's reboot the session with item 5 on the agenda. You answer questions for the oral answer of the president of the board. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performance of the Government of Greece in the face of the demands of citizenship expressed through the exercise of the rights of demonstration or strike
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u2	Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, whenever you like. Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, the pensioners, the women and the workers of Justice, citizenship in defense of public health and the women we call for real equality, women we are summoned to an international strike tomorrow. And I take it from international to see if it comes down from this delirious argument that the strike call is an elitist conspiracy against the People's Party. It is convened in forty countries. I'm sorry to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, but the world doesn't turn around your nose. [[Applause]] This Sunday you asked, before Jordi Évole, the same question that asked me in the full past: why now a strike of women? So let me answer that question, because the answer is very clear: because we are left with the reasons and why we want it. We don't have to ask permission to defend women's rights. [[Applause]] And I want to refresh you with some of the reasons: every day there are 15 allegations of male violence; every week a complaint of rape; every year there are 60 women who are murdered. But we have more reasons: we charge 4,513 euros less for doing the same job, that is, we work 40 days for free. And in the case of Galicians, it's worse, because we charge one of the lowest salaries in the state. Conciliation is a career of obstacles for most women, women who have double a day at home and at work. So that soon the ministers of the People's Party may come and say that what they need is strikes in Japanese. But there's another question that's also very important, and it's: what's contributed the PP for thirty years and you, as president, for the last ten years? For, first of all, look at the failure to comply with the Equality Act and the Gender Violence Act; secondly, zero measures to combat the wage gap — even if Junta is subsidizing companies subject to wage discrimination — and thirdly, to cut equality policies, to cut funds into equality and conciliation policies. And we have workers from the board who have to go to the judges to claim their conciliation rights. And, of course, you applauded and executed all public service cuts policies that condemn the precariousness of thousands of people. And the last one is the hit of the mayor of Mos who now tells us that the solution to women's discrimination is to bring their children to work. What is needed are infantile schools and not occurrences and disqualifications of this type. [[Applause]] BNG supports the women's strike, of course! And we also have proposals to combat discrimination. The first proposal is to promote a Welsh law for equal pay, and sanctions for companies that discriminate against women and violate the principle of "equal work, equal pay." Second proposal, excluding companies convicted of discrimination against women from public procurement. Third proposal, abolishing subsidies to educational centres that separate children and girls. And, fourthly, to promote a value of equality — similar to that of the Nordic countries — to put in place more mechanisms to defend women. And that's why I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, whether you're going to join these proposals that we make to you or will just keep asking why now a strike of women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have two questions later, of the Socialist and En Marea groups, about women's equality. Now it looks like I have three. I have no drawback, and I ask the spokespersons of the Socialist Party and of En Marea if I anticipate any of the government's positions. Mrs. Pontón, if you want to take the last Journal of Sessions, you'll see our position on this strike of women. We say it from the beginning, we respect any kind of approach in relation to the logical request to close any kind of discrimination in the field of gender; and secondly, it is a strike, a demonstration, an act of protest, etc. And I reiterate, Your Honor, that the summons are indeed international, but not in all countries they behave in the same way. Unless you have bad information, for example, in our neighbour Portugal the March 8 strike was not supported by majority unions, nor was it supported by the socialist government. As you see, Your Honor, there are different sensibilities, and I am convinced that you will not call the socialist government of Portugal a masquerade government, nor will the Portuguese trade unions regard them as masquerade unions. So, Your Honor, don't think you're always right about any proposal. One of the important issues a politician must make is to listen to, listen to those who show up on the street and listen to those who don't want to show up, listen to those who go to strike and listen to those who don't want to go to strike. When a politician hears, that politician is usually heard by the people. And so, Your Honor, it would be impossible not to have a government to hear if later people chose that government to rule. And so, Your Honor, we've been listening to Galicia for twelve years, one part in the opposition and another part in the government, and that's why the Greeks, when they had the first chance to give us the government, entrusted us with equality policies. Your Honor, you say things — and I should be serious about serious issues — that I don't think I'm welcome. Because it's not to be said simply that we don't make conciliation policies. The government that most conciliation policies have done in the history of the autonomous community is the government that I have the honour to preside over. And I'm going to repeat the data I've already told you in previous replies. Your Honor, when you were ruling, why were there 85% less squares in children's schools than now? Your Honor, when you ruled, why did the bond just not exist, there were no children's houses in the countryside, because rurals had no right to have children's schools? Why, when you were ruling, Your Honor, was there more female unemployment than now? Why, when you were ruling, Your Honor, were there fewer women affiliated to Social Security than now? Why when you ruled the pay gap was greater than there is now? Why don't we discuss all this quietly, Mrs. Pontón? There's one thing women don't admit: to manipulate them. And so, Your Honor, I'm not here to manipulate anyone, I'm here to talk about equality with concrete policies and with concrete data. Mrs. Pontón, if you leave so many banners, you might as well make some proposals. We came here to listen to your proposals. How can you say that this Government does nothing in equality policies if this Government has done more in equality policies than any other government? How can you say that the political group I belong to does nothing in equality policies if the first equality law that Galicia had was proposed by a Government of the People's Party, and to which you abstain and the Socialist Party voted against? Mrs. Pontón, we hear people. That's right, we don't mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u7	...use women for nothing, except to be by their side in any discrimination or in any right-and-free thinking. Mrs Pontón, real and effective equality is achieved with more freedom, more democracy and less manipulation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u9	Mr. Feijóo, the truth is that your arguments on this subject are becoming more and more delirious. Now a strike is either good or bad depending on whether or not they support it in Portugal. That's the reference that the president of the board has to talk about a problem that is at the heart of this country, that we've seen as if it has been expressed vigorously last Sunday in Vigo, with thousands of women in the streets who are saying that they don't listen to them and that they don't agree with their policies. [[Applause]] And, of course, no one uses women, because women are older to be careful; and, of course, that argument of manipulation is an argument that offends our dignity and is a rather paternalistic argument, Mr Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And we've actually come here to be serious. And it's not serious that you, after a crisis where women lose more than 9.3% of our purchasing capacity, with a loss of brutal employment, with a very strong precariousness, come here and tell us that we're better than before. Look, that you, who is a member of the People's Party, who has been ruling in this country for thirty years, tell us that the public service deficit is the Bipartite, which really does not cease to be an amendment to all the problems that cause the conservative policies of the People's Party. I told you, tell me how many children's schools you've auctioned. I'm calling for childish schools, Mr. Feijóo! Because there was a programming made by the Bipartite, there was a programming made by the Bipartite, and all they did was execute what was programmed and paralyze the development of public services. [[Murmurs.]] You said I hadn't made any proposals. Anyway, I understand you don't listen, Mr Feijóo, because I made four very specific proposals. You tell me whether or not you agree with them. First proposal: to promote a law of Galicia for equal pay and to punish companies that violate the principle of "equal pay, equal work". Do you agree, yes or no? Second proposal: we exclude from public aid companies that do not comply with women's rights. Do you agree, yes or no? Third proposal: we put in place co-education in the education system, suppressing educational concerts that separate children and girls. Do you agree? Yes or no, Mr. Feijó? And, finally, fourth proposal: a valedor of equality for women to have someone who shoots them and fights against discrimination, yes or no, Mr Feijóo? It is that we are talking about proposals for us to really move forward in equality. Because, look, it's obvious that this March 8 strike is making them very nervous in the People's Party. And they get very nervous because they see that there's one before and one after, and that, of course, as Begoña Caamaño said, we're in a new time, in a time of feminism. And I think that's what really worries the People's Party. We'd like to, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u11	... instead of coming here to disqualify a strike call and try to disqualify who we support the women who are on the street saying they don't listen to them, whether you're telling us whether or not according to the proposals we have, given that the only thing you have is disqualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you manipulate. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] I try to listen and read what everyone says, of course. Today I read an article in The Voice of Galicia. You say there's no means to reconcile and that governments run out of children's schools. Increase in the number of squares in children's schools: 85%. When you ruled, 12,700; now, more than 23,500. That's manipulation, Your Honor. That's manipulation. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you're still manipulating in your article today, because it says the logic is that the scandal of murdering women should be part of a matter of state. There's a state pact against gender violence. Again, he's manipulating again. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're manipulating yourself again when you say we don't agree with a wage equality law. No, ma'am, if we adopt a resolution in this House to pass a law in favour of equal pay! Your Honor, as you don't believe in the country... wage equality laws are imposed on the General Courts, not on a part of the territory, so that they don't apply anywhere, Mrs. Pontón. Let's keep working, Your Honor. [[Applause]] You make me a proposal now from the educational concerts. When you were in government you had the same educational concerts as us, but then they were progressing and now they're carcasses. Mrs. Pontón, why are you manipulating up to the matter as relevant as the actual and effective equality that women have not yet achieved? But why don't you respect women a little more and don't you use women until you get to go out on a newspaper or on a radio, Mrs. Pontón? Yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Murmurs.]] I deeply regret — and I say so as a man — the use of women in the last sign you presented. I'm deeply sorry. The instrumentalization of a woman's body is absolutely inappropriate, Your Honor. [[Applause]] No, Your Honor, you shouldn't be shocked. [[Applause]] I share the same view as Mrs. Pilar García Negro. You shouldn't be shocked because I think like a BNG woman, which is surprising is that you have to be called to the chapter by someone who has the most common meaning in the BNG. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, do not manipulate yourself by saying that today's payroll is superior because it governs the People's Party. Today, the wage gap for women in Greece — which I reject — is 14% in terms of European statistics, and the European Union average is 16%. Don't keep manipulating yourself. When I presented that poster, in addition to manipulating the cartel, you presented it, saying that there are 22,500 women who claim to work part-time to take care of their family. And it's true. But why didn't you say that when you ruled there were 27,800, that is, 23% more? Why don't you say, Your Honor, that the female unemployment has now dropped? Why don't you say women's social security affiliations have gone up? Mrs. Pontón, we respect everyone, listen to each other, make serious proposals. And I'm saying it's not worth making a joke for a minute in the media. Mrs. Pontón, listen to me. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now debating two questions in a cumulative way. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the realization in Galicia of all possible ways to promote gender equality Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the impact of the policies of the Greek Government on the achievement of real equality between women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u15	You have the floor, first of all, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, gender equality is undoubtedly the most relevant issue we have today in the political agenda. But when we hear President Rajoy say, "We don't get into it," or the spokesman of his party in Galicia say, "The feminist strike is of the most machist", we are surprised and worried, and we think this is a mistake. The first thing I ask you to do is to disallow those words. Supporting gender equality is a right, but for us, it's also a duty. [[Applause]] I tell him that women will win the battle for equality, for their push and for their determination. There are some positive indicators in some areas. The progress of equality is guaranteed when there are spaces where merit and capacity dominate, but in other places inequality persists and there are barriers, prejudices or political attitudes that do not favor that progress in equality, they are obstacles, and we must change them among all. In the European Gender Equality Index Spain is 20 points from the Nordic countries. But there are a few sections, such as the segregation and quality of work, continuing training or economic power, in which we are quite behind, also in Galicia. And that's where we have to act more decisively. Let's start with the first, by segregation and quality of work. There are four women in Galicia working part-time for each man in this situation. There is more temporality among women than among men, including the public sector. There's something to fix. And the pay gap persists. Of course there was a wage gap, but it continues to persist in all wage strata and all the old strata. In the lowest percentage of wages, in the 10th percent, women's wages would have to increase, with data from 2015, by 92%. They listened carefully, 92 percent to match the two men. But that inequality persists in all wage strata. And between youth, where women have a higher level of education, there's 2,000 euros of negative difference for women. And they've lost purchasing power since you're ruling, since the start of the crisis. They've lost purchasing power, they've got the statistics. The Galician Union has to do more, it has to do more for full-time and indefinite recruitment of women in employment plans. It's entirely in your hands. You have to do more by putting in place and decisively a plan to transform indefinite temporary recruitment in the public sector, which benefits especially women. You have to do more in conciliation. I propose that we put in place permits for parents and mothers of paternity and maternity; equal and non-transferable, men and women. They facilitate reconciliation and allow equality to advance. With such a hostile labour market, women with children find it hard to re-enter after maternity, and I propose that we launch a program of specific incentives for return to employment after maternity to match careers and opportunities. Less female employment in terms of EPA, excessive involuntary bias, very high temporality and marked pay gap, which makes a very significant difference in access to unemployment and unemployment benefits, but also to average retirement pensions. Mr. Núñez Feijó, the figures are hard, but there are. And you've been ruling for eight years. You can't look elsewhere, and you have to tell us how you're going to fix this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u17	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Question by Don Luis Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, this is the week we have the 8th March claim for women's equality, and you're the only big one that makes equality this week, as president of all the Greeks and Greeks, is to say that all the Greeks and the Greeks are smugglers. That's his great approach to equality, a generalisation. Indeed, the principle of equality: all Galicians and all Greeks, smugglers. You've had the opportunity, for 40 minutes of interview, to brag about the country, and the only good thing that happens to you to say about the Greeks and the Greeks is that we're smugglers? Does the generality of women in this country seem to be smugglers? Does it seem to you that the generality of women who strive every day to overcome inequalities that are apparent in our society deserves to be treated with such a large stereotype that makes them equal to working illegally, illegal traffic? Does that sound normal to you? Maybe you live so surrounded by delinquent people that you think everyone in Galicia is a smuggler. But you're wrong. It is true that there have been smugglers who illegally financed the People's Party, that today there are criminals who illegally fund the People's Party and who are convicted of corruption, people, such as in the case of "Campion", MPs of the People's Party and high government officials, convicted of corruption. And that makes us all and everyone delinquent? Does all Galicia become criminals and smugglers? No, right, Mr. President? Where are you from? They're all smugglers? It's not like that, is it? [[Murmurs.]] Well, if not, you should start by apologizing to this House, which is the seat of Galicia's popular sovereignty, for that insult that has no other qualifications, for that behaviour of yours to call them, all of the Greeks and the Greeks, smugglers. Start by apologizing here and now in the Welsh Chamber, and in a public media. [[Applause]] Of course, stereotypes like theirs, saffiti like theirs, are the ones that give way to claim by strike the equality of women in this country. If you still haven't been clear enough what the reason for the strike is, I'll remind you of three. First of all, one that has to do with reality. A lot of data has already been given. Two more: women's contribution pensions in this country are 643 euros, while men's employment rate is 1,041; women's employment rate is 9 points lower than men's; women's care: 22,000 women caring for 1,100 men in Galicia. Reality, but reality of failure to comply with the law as well. The Law for the Equality of Women and Men is constantly called into question, Law 11/2004 — because it is strict also in the quote of which laws are the laws. Well, look, for starters, in article 10, when you talk about gender non-discrimination in teaching centers. You fund schools that segregate by sex. In Article 19, measures to eradicate violence against women, including psychological care. And you suppress the psychological care service for women in our country's trials. That's what you keep the law. Article 5 requires ending stereotypes and prejudices, and you on the Welcome Card use the woman's figure alone and exclusively as a caregiver. Do you think there's enough reasons for a strike? No, no, no, no. For there are no laws of equality either — even if you do not do so literally — without commitment to equality, without budgets of equality. In the performance data of the 2017 budgets at the end of the third quarter, in the programmes supporting the reconciliation of labour and personnel life and other social protection services, Mr Núñez, how much has the Government of Galicia invested in the first three quarters of the year? Do you know how much? Did they point him to that paper he's underlining? 40%, 40%!, in the first three quarters of the year. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] How good you are!Is that what you're talking about? Well, wait, there's more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u19	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u20	In the actions for equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u21	Silence! Excuse me a moment, Mr. Villares. Quiet, quiet, please. Mr. Villares, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u22	I'm done. In the programme, Mr Núñez, of actions for equality, protection and promotion of women, support for the reconciliation of working and personal life and other social protection services, do you know how much they have spent on the year? Say a number, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u23	No, you tell her, because if you don't, it's a mess. [[Laughter]] You tell her and that's how we're done before. Finish. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u24	I'll tell you, indeed, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u25	Tell her. How much is it? If you mean it, tell her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u26	September 30th, 6%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u28	Six percent, a miserable figure, a real joke in equality policies. [[Applause]] There is no real equality without real budget, and this is your commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u29	Thank you, your time is up, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u30	Your commitment to equality is this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u31	Your time is up. Thank you. You've got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I have stated — it is my opinion — that [...] that is what I think is machist and, therefore, Your Honor, that is my opinion. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Opinion that coincides with other BNG personalities who have been defending real and effective equality for a long time and not performing media shows. Mr. Leicega, equality, no doubt, is one of the priorities of any democratic government. And that is why all democratic governments are trying to work cross-sectionally with different tools, with the Interdepartmental Equality Commission, with the seventh — we already have seven — Equal Opportunities Plan, creating the Galego Council of Women, with the Galego Observatory against Male Violence, or, for example, with the Advisory Committee on Non-Sexist Advertising. Your Honor, what we have to do is work in every area. For example, basically, starting with principle, education, and that's why we're setting up a subject of free configuration in secondary education and vocational training to fight from the beginning against any kind of discrimination on the basis of sex. For example, by working with the municipalities, and that is why we finance the local networks of the entities, the municipalities, against the violence of the macho. For example, Your Honor, by supporting women victims of gender-based violence, with direct aid, with insertion programs and, of course, for the first time, with the characterization of the Juridical Counsel of the Union in any case of the death of a woman. For example, conciliation and co-responsibility. You tell me about maternity leave. You know that our country, Galicia, has the largest maternity permit in Spain. Now you're telling me how to match your parental rights. We are going to vote on a compromise proposal from my group — I propose that you read it — and the last paragraph rightly proposes that. I believe, Your Honor, that it would be important for the Socialist Party to support it. For example, Your Honor, what we're working with is the woman's presence in science, because from there come many problems from the point of view of companies and from the point of view of a digital society and of companies with increasingly technological components. Have we made progress on this? The answer is yes. Do we have to move forward? The answer is, too. You're going to work. Your Honor, you were talking about employment. The difference in the female employment rate in Galicia is lower than in Spain as a whole, the difference in Galicia is eight points and in Spain as a whole exceeds eleven. In the affiliations — I reiterate — we recovered the level of affiliation that we had at the beginning of the crisis. Look, in February 2009 I met Galicia with 465,000 women working and today there are 472,000, despite the crisis and the economic recession. On registered unemployment, we found a Galician in February 2009 with 113,000 unemployed women, and today with 106,000 unemployed women. There are 7,700 women less unemployed now than when you ruled. I think that's progress, social progress. In Parliament, of the first three Members who had this House, two were from the PP and none from the left. In local power, we start with six mayors. And in Galicia today we have 42. And 37% of the conchlers are conchlers. In terms of the Galician Union, today 53% of the positions of responsibility of this Union in which I work, 53%, are women. Is the woman most in the Welsh administration? The answer is yes, 70% of the Galician board template are women. At the university, women account for 55% of the enrolments and 60% of the qualifications. Mr. Leicea, in 1966 there could be no judge in Spain, we were in the dictatorship. Today 65% of Spain's total judges are women and 63% of Spain's prosecutors are women. Your Honor, are we moving forward? The answer is yes. In both the governments of the Socialist Party and the governments of the People's Party, Spain has advanced in favour of full and effective equality. And what do we want to do in Galicia? Whether Galicia is a pioneering autonomous community in the field of non-discrimination on the basis of gender. We are going to be the first government to approve an equality plan for the General Administration of the Autonomous Community, the first. In this month of March we will approve the first conciliation plan in the autonomous administration of Galicia, the first of all Spanish administrations. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will again be the autonomous community of pioneers in equal training and in prevention against the masculine violence of staff serving the autonomous administration. [[Applause]] In the first equality plan of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, we will identify the degree of inequality and discrimination, both in access to public employment and in careers, in training, in wages, in the management of working time, in situations of special protection. In the conciliation and co-responsibility plan that we will adopt in March, Your Honor, we will work and approve five areas: building trust and knowledge, co-education, etc. Fight gender violence. The Decree for the Equal Training and Prevention of the Fight against Staff Violence at the Service of the Autonomous Community approved it, and we published it in August 2017 — the first time. And the work integration programs directed to women in a situation of gender violence we've already approved in 2016. Mr. Leicega, the indicators in law, the indicators in employment and the indicators in the female presence indicate that we are moving forward. I'm telling you, we're never going to settle down. That is why, Mr. Leicega, what I propose is less confrontation — it makes no sense — and many more agreements for equality — that is what makes sense. And that's why I think it's good to talk, talk seriously, as you just did, and don't waste your time on certain issues. Look, Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, I think we've made a lot of progress. Neither will I teach your equality group, nor do I think it would be reasonable for you to try to teach this group about equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u34	Your Honor, since equality is a serious issue, I think the best thing we can do is deal with it seriously. And that's why I answered the proposals and the serious questions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u35	Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u36	Well, Mr. Feijóo, I'm the first one to tell you is that you did not disallow Mr. Rajoy or the voicer of your party. The statements, to us, are worrying, are important. But, well, let's talk about politics. Look, in Galicia there are no equality plans in public enterprises, despite the fact that it's a legal obligation. The female employment is very insufficient, and it cannot replace the female employment plan provided for by law. And the funds of the General Secretariat of Equality, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, fell by 60% since 2009, by 60%! And that's what makes conciliation policies and equality policies suffer. Paternity permits are important, because they are the ones that restore an equal situation in relation to the labour market for men and women, and they make it easier to eliminate part of the difficulties women have in accessing places of relevance. We talked about economic power, which was one of the areas in which I first said that the European indicator said we were wrong. 27.7 % of the company's top management in Galicia are women. It's not your direct responsibility, but it's your responsibility for companies, societies and autonomics. And in the board of directors of societies that directly depend on you there are two men for each woman. That can solve it very quickly, giving directions to his government. By the way, a non-pariety government, and symbols are important, Mr. Feijóo, symbols are important! Especially -- you remembered him and it's true -- because 70% of the public employees in Galicia are women. [[Applause]] But in the case of societies and entities, the board of directors is very underrepresented. It matters. He breaks down the glass ceiling and can demand more from the private sector to the companies that have their headquarters in Galicia. We're talking about continuing training, because you told us something about education. By the way, you charged education for citizenship, which worked directly on equality, but that doesn't seem to matter. But if you do, where there is a relation to the labour market, your policies in that sense are contrary to equality. [[Applause]] In the dual FP there are two students enrolled for each student; in the mentor program there are nearly two boys for each girl; in the entrepreneurship actions there are always many fewer women than men. And that's because politics don't have a gender perspective. Sometimes they don't have enough resources, sometimes you don't have the will. But other times they don't have a enough gender perspective, and that's what we're asking you to be able to move forward. Actually, you're making progress. But in many cases we're behind. You see, in rights, in Galicia today, less than 10% of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy that women demand, because Sergas puts too many locks. And they have to go to Madrid to concerted centers to exercise their right. And this is also important in issues of equality. There's a symbolic problem that simplifies your government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u38	...that simplify the statements of the leaders of your party. But there's also a problem of will and politics. They have to apply the gender perspective in the relevant policies in order to move forward in equality, which will come regardless of what you do. But your decision can make that progress towards equality faster or slower. And I ask him to break the glass ceiling, make the mud soil disappear, and we can all move faster towards gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u39	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President of Parliament. See the accumulation problems? This is a accumulation of questions though the president then chooses not to answer the first group of opposition, denying Parliament again, as he always does. And that with your permission, with your conviviality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u41	Excuse me a moment. I'm not going to discuss accumulation with you now. It's a competition from this presidency on similar issues. You ask different questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u42	As it is also the competence of the Presidency to uphold the rights of Members of this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u43	They're tied up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u44	...and demand that Mr. President answer the questions they ask him. Because he doesn't want to answer about equality, because he knows...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u45	General theme, you don't have to answer about your introduction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u46	...because you know, Mr. President, that here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u47	No, don't argue with me, you answer the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u48	No, no, I'm already talking to the whole House and throughout Galicia, in the House of the Greek Parliament, which is where we need to speak to all of Galicia, not on private television sets, which then come to say things that you are not able to support here, nor are you able to hold those kind of statements about the Galician set. By the way, take advantage of the closing shift to apologize to all Galicia for calling us all smugglers, of which you will be the first smuggler... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u49	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u50	...of all the primino inter pares, at least. And, of course, when you're serious, we don't think you're serious about making those statements, it doesn't seem serious about you. [[Murmurs.]] That's why we apologize. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u51	Quiet. Silence! Quiet, please. Silence! Silence! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u52	It is clear that we are going to have to appoint the honourable Member, to see if he is answered by questions, because what is En Marea, there is no possibility. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you have the opportunity to reply seriously to three questions: the non-compliance of the Equal Law in the segregation of schools by sex, the abolition of sine die services of psychological care in the courts and, in addition, on the subject of discrimination itself that is made in relation to prejudices. You have the possibility to answer to this, this is your sole responsibility, the lack of budgetary commitment. We've been three months, three quarters of 2017, with 6% executed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u53	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u54	It's your role, it's your commitment. But if you want 2016 too, with 100% executed, you'll see how more than 1 million euros left to spend on equality policies. And that's what you have to account for on equality, you have to answer. Nor did he answer questions that affect our reality. We talked to him about the difference in tax pensions, we told him about the different rates of employment, we also told him about the wage difference, and that's all he didn't realize at all. Why? Because your policies of commitment to equality are smuggling policies, but we already know you, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u55	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Mr. President's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, you tell me that we have to approve equality plans in some public companies. I agree. That is why we are going to approve the I Public Administration Equality Plan this year. [[Gallic Union as a whole]] All of them, all of them. [[Applause]] You speak, Your Honor, probably because you have bad information, that we have reduced the budget for equality; no, we increase it, but in a remarkable way how you want to take what you spent on the Bipartite and make a non-homogenous comparison, because the reconciliation in the Bipartite was in Equality and now it's in Social Services, because then you do some inappropriate accounts of a person would be like you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's add the accounts. The Bipartite spent 54 million euros on reconciliation and equal, and we 98 million euros; that's 80% more. So, ladies and gentlemen, there are Members in this House who can't even read a budget and go to the specifics of running projects, who don't know what they're talking about, they don't know what they're saying, and they still close the exercise in September. That's a new economic and financial structure in Marea. And then they say last year we didn't run 1 million. Look at you, Your Honor: 85 million euros stop running 1 million is not running the budget. [[Applause]] But that doesn't matter, that doesn't matter. It doesn't matter because there are people who don't deserve to take it very seriously either. Look, in the last eleven years, since 2004, women's average salary has grown in Galicia by 42%. We are the second autonomous community where women's wages have grown the most since 2004. If you interpret this as conformity, the answer is no. I am in favour of equality policies. I have no more objective than to listen to women who are part of Galicia, and that's why I want to thank women that every time I've had the opportunity to present myself as president most of them, most of Galician women have given me their trust, and that's why I'm going to continue working for most of Galician women, you have no doubt. [[Applause]] That's my commitment. Don't you realize, Your Honor, that if I didn't respect women, I couldn't be here? Don't you realize that if we had a government that didn't respect the sensibility of the Greek women, in no case would we form a government? Don't you tell yourself, gentlemen, that you are in opposition [...] and sometimes manipulate the data in relation to women? [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Yes, Your Honor, that cartel is impropriety; I repeat it, I repeat it, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] In the name of most Welsh women, I say that the BNG cartel is inappropriate and deserves correction. [[Applause]] That's our opinion that I have the right to express. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u57	Mr. Rivas, silence, silence. Silence! No, no, Mr. Rivas. Mr. Rivas, I call you by order, I call you by order. Quiet, Mr. Rivas. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] A call to order. Quiet, quiet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u58	As you can see, Your Honor, there are some who are only used to insulting. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, your proposal that there are many men in vocational training and that there should be more women I suppose it was a lapse, because, if we have more women at the university, what do you want me to tell you? Can't women go to college and go to vocational training? Don't you realize that people are going to study where they consider it appropriate? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u59	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u60	Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to quote certain sentences from the leader of Mr. Spokesman of En Marea. When a journalist asked him an uncomfortable question, he said, "Well, you have a nice fur coat." And when another journalist asks him another question, he says, "I'd whip him until he bleeds." Of course, on companions, Rita Maestre said—literal— "For lustful glances, Rita, the ones you wake up where you go." [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u61	Quiet, Mrs. Santos, quiet. You have a call to order. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u62	Pablo Iglesias, Your Honor. Those are your feminist policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u63	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u64	Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not surprised that Mrs Rita Maestre said there are macho attacks during her election campaign to lead We can in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u65	Mr. Villares, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u66	It's no wonder Mr. Erezón said that macho behaviors must be discarded in Podemos. [[Applause]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this bothers, but that's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a leader who talks about whipping women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u67	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u68	Do they teach feminism or machoism? You say the man... [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u69	Mr. Villares, Mr. Villares, silence. I'm gonna have to call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u70	If that's not necessary to go to Paul Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u71	Mr. Villares. Quiet. No, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Silence, silence, Mr. Villares. Mr. Villares, I call you by order. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, there you go, do it three times and I expel it. You'll see. Home, we're in Parliament! You have had your turn, you must respect who is in the use of the word. [[Murmurs.]] You have a call to order, Mr. Villares; I don't like it, but you have a call to order. Mr. President, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u72	Your Honor, I just brought the exact collation of sentences from the leader of Podemos. I have the right to do so, and I regret that a leader of this party who is representing Mr. Villares makes such statements without listening to anything from the Members of the House and from the Members of En Marea. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But of course, what can I expect, Your Honor, from a number of Members who say that men must impose upon women the place where they give light?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u73	Quiet. Mr. Villares. Mr. Villares! I'm gonna have to call him in for a second time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u74	What lesson of feminism can I hear from men in this House who say that men have the right to impose upon women the place where their sons or daughters give birth? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, I thank Mr. Leicega for asking a question about equality. Look, I've heard it with a lot of interest, as I try to do it all the time, but the angry ones in Podemos are that I've been on a Sixth program! What's wrong? That television can't go anyone who isn't from a particular political party? Your Honor, it's okay because in an hour on that TV there's someone from the PP, nothing happens. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Villares, if you get to issue the four hours of full questions and answers, if you get to issue those four hours, then give you something, Mr. Villares. I can assure you he gives you something; four hours of questions and answers would be the full program. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] But finally, I see that, as you're very interested... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u76	...in my interviews, in the next interview I'll send you greetings, Mr. Villares, because I think in your party they remember less than I remember. [[Laughter]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word? Quiet, please. What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u78	I don't know if you asked for it, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u79	I don't care if he talks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u80	They warned me. Now, Mrs. Pontón's I haven't seen her. Did you even ask Mr. Leicaga? Did you ask her first? No, no. If you asked for it first, you had it first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u81	Very quickly. To ask Mr. President of the Board to withdraw the allusion to which we are opposed by [...], because, in addition to being false, I think it represents an unwarranted attack on the rest of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u82	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u83	I think it is clear that during the debate just took place I was directly alluded to and insulted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u84	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u85	And besides... yes, yes, yes... allow me... I really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u86	No, no, not insulted. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u87	I have listened, with absolute temper, to a debate which I want to say is very sorry, because it shows me how much interest the President of the Union has in the problems of equality, and I ask them to forgive the women of this country because something else is required in this Parliament. But Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u88	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u89	Please, Mr. President, don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u90	Quiet, please. Silence! I'll moderate it. What's your request?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u91	I ask for the shift that corresponds to allusions, but I want to do another...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u92	Quiet. He's in this, but what's the allusion?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u93	Home! They cremated me and insulted me directly. And besides, Mr President, I want to tell you that you have a very selective memory, Mr President of Parliament, because in the past I was alluded to and I was withdrawn and called in order. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u94	That's it. No, no, no, no. What is the concrete allusion in this matter or the inaccuracy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u95	I think you know it perfectly, because Mr Feijóo accused me of [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u96	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u97	Yes, yes, yes. And it's more, Mr. President, and it's more, Mr. President, in the past you called me to order...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u98	No, no, but the full past is not object now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u99	...to use that word, and Mr. Feijóo has immunity here to insult, and I claim it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u100	Mrs. Pontón, you have no word, your turn is over. No, no, your shift is over. No, no, your shift is over. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] We are already respecting Parliament, we are respecting Parliament. No, no, that's it. You've finished your shift. I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón, your turn is over. Mr President, there is a request made by Mr Fernández Leicega in particular. Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, scandal isn't. There's a specific request. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, asks for the floor.]] Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u101	Mr. Leicega, anything that said you could bother him, of course the withdrawal from the Session Diary. [[Murmurs.]] I said — and I repeat — that, in my view, the BNG cartel is a masquerading cartel. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to ask you to withdraw the insults about my person from the Journal of Sessions, because probably half of the Journal of Sessions would have to remove it. But it doesn't matter, Your Honor, it doesn't matter. [[Applause]] I am a Democrat, and if there is anything that offends Mr. Leicega, I withdraw it. Mrs. Pontón is also withdrawing her, and Mr. Spokesman of En Marea is also withdrawing her. I do not need to remove the permanent and constant designation of "contrabandist". Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks know very well what everyone, every Member and every Member of the House means. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's all taken away! It's all taken away! No, no, that's it! No, no, he's retired. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you're talking! No, no, no... it's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's retired. [[Murmurs.]] He took it off! Proposals not of law. I'm sorry. It's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no. I'm sorry. Retired! No, I'm not breaking up. No, very quiet consciousness, I'm fulfilling... thank you, Mrs. Pontón, thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] We move on to the shift of non-law propositions. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to strengthen the role of schools and teachers in the promotion of equality, as well as the prevention of violence against men and women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u103	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u104	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u105	What a hurry the president had to leave! Too bad, because we actually had something to tell him. That's amazing! What a bochronous spectacle you just played in this Parliament! [[Murmurs.]] I recommend that someone pass the message to you: check the arguments; above all, check the machismo and the contempt they have in their ranks, because of course we're left behind. Women's strike is the most machist you can say — I said Tellado. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u106	No, no, no. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] No, you're realizing you're offending a group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u107	Home!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u108	Yeah, yeah, sorry. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] That's right, you're calling the People's Parliamentary Group directly. Yes, yes. [[Protests.]] No, please, that's what I was missing, that the Bureau members would rebuke me too! [[Murmurs.]] Where are we going? [[Murmurs.]] A little respect for the members of the Bureau too! [[Protests.]] A little respect too! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! So, Mrs. Chao, on the matter, and I beg you not to use that expression, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u109	We just heard in this plenary that the opposition was in the opposition for not respecting women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u110	He's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u111	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u112	He's retired. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u113	...and that feminist strike is the most machist we can hear, too. We hear the President of the Board constantly insult the opposition. So yes, we ask for some respect. The opposition calls for a little respect because it represents thousands of citizens who voted for us. So we asked for a little respect, of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u114	Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, be quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Protests.]] We're going to suspend the plenary... [[Protests.]] Wait a minute, please! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! If this goes on like this, we will temporarily suspend the full. I think the debate is over, Mrs Chao is speaking, let's respect it. [[Murmurs.]] I think it's coming. So, ma'am... everybody! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, everyone! I'm talking to everyone, I'm not talking to you alone, I'm talking to everyone. Mrs. Chao, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u115	Unless one day of the feminist strike, which, as I said yesterday, will also be a student strike for a free, secular and feminist teaching — however much it bothers the popular bench — from En Marea we want to claim, once again, the fundamental role... [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if they're gonna keep talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u116	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, she has the right to stop if she's upset. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] There's time. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u117	Thank you. From En Marea we want to demand, once again, the fundamental role of education, which must have education, as a fundamental trench against machismo, to claim the role of school, of schools as a fundamental agent for equality, as a fundamental agent of social transformation. We won't get tired of repeating it: in the same way that Machism learns, equality can be learned too. And in that year the Education Administration has a fundamental responsibility, a responsibility that, in our view, the Education Council is not assuming as much as it should. It's not worth talking about co-education, etc., etc., etc., like the president of the board did here a few minutes ago, etc., etc., etc., etc. This is the great concept that the Galician Union has of what can be done in schools: a long et cetera, if they then continue to finance concerted Machist schools that separate children and children. It is no use to adopt equality plans for schools full of beautiful words and slogans that anyone committed to equality would sign if that was not accompanied by the economic resources necessary to carry it out. You can't talk, raise the flag of schools on equal terms if the Administration doesn't put all the resources it has for this task to work. And this is about what our non-law proposal is about. This is about what we aspired to be able to debate today, about how much can still be done for schools to be the trainers of free, independent, equal and feminist people, the people we need to have a better future for all and for all, starting that schools are one of the most important areas of socialization for children and children, which is where the first male stereotypes are taken. We don't say it, there's a lot of literature to certify. It must be precisely the place where we strengthen the potential of the teacher to fight against machismo. In this sense from En Marea we have repeatedly insisted that school should be the first space to overthrow stereotypes and roles that promote inequality and work towards an equal future. Our lives — and it's not a way of talking — literally, our lives depend on that. And we don't want to say that nothing is being done in this area — listen well, so we don't get confused with the replica — but we think that, despite the fact that in recent years, progress has been made in introducing the gender perspective in schools and several programs and projects have been developed, they are insufficient, sporadic and too often depend on the will of the educational community or on proposals from specific institutions. That is, school co-education on too many occasions depends more on the volunteerism of those who have to carry it out than on systematic planning, much less on the existence of firm public educational policies. This makes the margin of improvement we have huge. That is why we hope that this non-law proposal will be able to discuss concrete measures, because, of course, the five proposals we are going to put today on the table will not be enough to solve all the problems or to address the shortcomings we have detected. In that sense, discussing them and even making alternative proposals would be the best way to be useful to the society that puts us here, which is supposed to be for that. As we have already stated on previous occasions, one of the fundamental concerns we must face when we look at what is happening in this country's schools is the lack of specific training in the field of equality for teachers. Despite the legal framework that directs the development of equal education for both students and teachers, the deficiencies are enormous. That is why we have on many occasions defended the need for a comprehensive training plan. As enormous is the lack of women in textbooks, there are no female references for children in this country. Galician girls need to know many Rosalias, many Marías — the Pitas, the Castañas, the Compostela girls. Many Maruja Mallo in the books, many Marcelas and Elisas, many Arenal Conception and Emilias Pardo Bazán. The future women and the future men of this country need to know from the many pioneers who existed in Galicia and those pioneers fill the books of history, literature, biology and physics, because they were, because they are, because they have to be and are not. No more permanent invisibility! It is good that it is men who sign most of the compulsory literature that is part of the school curriculum! Don't we have the first leading writers in this country? Where are they? Where are your names? Where are the researchers, the discoverers? Where? All the anonymous women who have been raising this country. With so many absences, so many silences, how do you surprise yourself after the multiple facets of the gender gap? In that sense, just a month ago, newspapers echoed that only 24.5% of the total student enrolled in technical qualifications are women, a figure 12 points lower than we had in 2005; or the so-called computer case, where women represent only 12%. Maybe someone can explain to the president of the board that inequality in teaching goes from this, because listening here -- as we had to a few minutes ago -- that we should be happy because women are going to college and not to shameful vocational training, they smile at anyone. He's unworthy of the President of the Galician Union, who doesn't seem to know what he's talking about. Inequality, of course, in the labour market, with more unemployment, more temporality, more precariousness, glass ceilings, lower wages, lower pensions, twice a day, a situation which, of course, has to be reduced since childhood. And there's more, because inequality doesn't just come up with academic issues. Inequality has to do with affective-sexual relationships, of which nothing is said in schools, absolutely nothing, precisely nothing to children and children of the age of having their first relationships. Unfortunately, however, affective-sexual education continues without having any room in the curriculum. I mean, there's a lot to do. So what are our proposals? First of all, we stress once again the need for the creation of equal agents squares in educational centres, so that we can move forward towards joint teams of guidance and equality, with specific training. Why do we demand a specific figure and not the adaptation of the existing professor? Because from the schools themselves, teachers and mentors bring us their powerlessness and inability to fight against the multiple violence of the macho. On the one hand, because they have clear time problems, associated with increased elective load and cuts in staff. And secondly, there's the question of the relevance of a really specific training; they tell us that they lack tools. Secondly, we propose the development of a comprehensive equality training plan, an initial and compulsory training in equality, prevention of macho violence and co-education for all levels of teacher training, less guided courses and more comprehensive programming. Thirdly, we want to extend the subject of gender equality to all educational courses, adapting the content to each stage and including among its specific forms of affective-sexual education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u119	We already have it... - I hope you will reward me all the time I lost at first...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u120	That's why I'm telling you to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u121	We've already commented on it. For Mrs de En Marea, it cannot be understood that equal training is optional, it cannot be done. Just like it's not optional for children to learn the basic curriculum. We can't afford it to be optional to be trained in equality; it's fundamental, vital, to improve and secure our lives. Fourthly, and in the same line as the proposal brought yesterday by the Socialist Group, from En Marea we think it is urgent to develop a plan of school playgrounds for equality, so as to bet on games that promote coexistence and the use of equal spaces, places where, as I said yesterday, children and children spend about 525 hours of games and socialization between equal and people of the opposite sex; 525 hours that could be used to learn new ways to relate, 525 hours that can help us break up with macho stereotypes that proliferate in school spaces. It is about claiming educational patio programs that are already operating in other territories of the Spanish State. As Mrs. Pierres said yesterday, betting on this kind of policy would allow our country to take the lead in equal education policies that are developing in the state as a whole. We don't want to compare ourselves to those who are worse, we want to compare ourselves to those who are better. And finally, we want to talk about school uniforms. In this sense, we propose that the Educational Administration act to ensure that schools in which the school uniform is used bet on a single pair of pants, avoiding differentiation for children and children. What sense can we have to tell our daughters of equality, that they can be equal to their peers, if they are being forced to take a walk in schools?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u123	The final question would be: can you do more? The answer is obvious — finished already — yes. Let's keep insisting: Machism is the problem, education can be the solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u124	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, I hope that the People's Party and the person who would reply to this non-Mean law proposal does not consider me disabled for any initiative related to education by the fact that the party I belong to yesterday had decided to be absent or broken up — or the term they want to use — in the social education pact, as it was done yesterday in response to a plan to change school courtyards that Mrs Pierres, of my parliamentary group, presented brilliantly. Obviously, it is a matter of funding — and so it has been said —. But look, that story, that argument that we're going to do less with what it leads to is that today, for example, a report from the European Union is published in which the poverty risk index of this country has increased alarmingly since the People's Party is in the Government; that to do more with less, therefore, brings those kinds of realities. Mr. President-in-Office mentioned earlier that one of the greatest contributions he has made to equality in educational institutions was the creation of a matter, by the way, of free configuration, and therefore optional, called Gender Equality. But, as Mr Leicea reminded you, they ultimately eliminated education for citizenship, because — according to certain sectors of this sad country that we are at times — they invaded the private sphere of child education when they talked about women being equal to men, that gender violence should not be tolerated and that equality should be achieved. That's another reality, too. Mrs Chao, by going to your non-law proposal, we obviously agree with points 2, 3 and 4, in fact the 4th — as you have just remembered — has a completely identical content to the non-law proposal I referred to earlier, which was defended yesterday in this Parliament, but we have to amend — and so we have done — necessarily points 1 and 5. And we have to do it because, first of all, and with respect to the first point, with the figure that you propose from equality agents there are two elements that we understand strongly enough. First of all, in case there was such a figure, it seems manifestly insufficient to request a specific training of 300 hours. quantifying in a parliament which is the minimum necessary training seems to be an excess of competence. But in any case, there is within the upper grade professional training catalogue a title that has 2,000 hours of duration, called Gender Equality Promotion, in which specific information and communication modules are provided with gender perspectives, promotion of female employment, areas of intervention for the promotion of equality, prevention of gender violence, social participation of women and socio-educational intervention for equality. I insist that 2,000 hours of training, a higher degree degree that we understand, necessarily provides a much more solid training than 300 hours, already on a numerical issue and, on the other hand, because it is designed as a state title, which is by experts and experts in the field of which it is concerned, and therefore that training, that curriculum, will necessarily be more powerful than 300 hours of training. Besides, we bet on creation, just like other communities have already done, because if something is working it's good to see if it works and if it works, and it seems to be the case; there are autonomous communities that regulated the figure of equal coordinator, which is a teacher, that is yes, as you said, and I fully agree with the time reduction. It is not a matter of overloading the teacher with additional tasks without reducing his schedule; in any case, giving him enough time to devote himself to that new task, enough training and the necessary support. Do not create a figure for it to end up lacking content because it does not have the ability to fulfill the purpose for which it was conceived. And with regard to the school uniform, which is a subject that is quite vague enough, perhaps to dedicate a monograph to it, there was no autonomous community in this state, in Spain, to regulate the use. It's a delicate issue, it's a subject on which there is no consensus or minimum, so even; that is, it's not a peaceful subject and, in addition, it's a subject that has been decided to leave within the dubious scope of this topic of the autonomy of teaching centers. Because legal reports have to be alerted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u127	... yes, I'm finished, President—that it's illegal to impose the use of a school uniform. Therefore, in those centres where the use of school uniform is recommended, there is a tendency that this uniformity prevents the differentiation between children and children. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u129	Thank you. Good morning. If you allow me, first of all, I believe that after what we have just lived, the debate we have just witnessed, the insult, the contempt, the continuing disrespect for our group and for the others who represent the forces of opposition, we have to say that, indeed, we are up to the cone, even the cone!, too, of the "everything is worth in here," "everything is worth in here," absolutely. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] It is also a good example of what we have just lived this morning, that teaching must be conceived, developed and implemented in society as a tool for social transformation. Madía takes good care to contribute to cracking, we say it yesterday, and we repeat it again today, with behaviors, with macho, violent habits and behaviors, which are based on contempt, insult, discrimination towards what she thinks different or has any kind of dissenting opinion. It's that we have to conceive teaching as a tool that transmits human values, and one of the fundamental human values is respect, it's equity, social justice and, I insist, also tolerance to those who think differently. He's an important socialization agent, we believe him that way, but we also have to say that he's not the only one. We have addressed it, we have discussed it on many occasions, too, and, above all, in the Equality Commission, recently last week, that it is of no use to be punctual in teaching if what we see later — through the media, advertising, television series or even in the behaviors that are transmitted through social networks — is a completely contradictory message that is said or defended by teachers in the classrooms. Contradictory messages that often perpetuate and reproduce role plays and macho stereotypes. Even this House and the behavior and attitudes we have here educate or transmit values that normalize or naturalize contempt and insult. We agree with this initiative in the need to create that figure of a specific training equality agent that can coordinate and introduce the gender perspective in all actions, also from the necessary training of the teacher. Since the BNG we have unanimously agreed in this House to ensure the training of teachers through the master's degree, which is obliged to teach lessons, always from the prism of educating those who are educated, because it is impossible or very complex to apply a gender perspective with those transversal faces if they are not. Similarly, we believe that it is impossible to detect violent, discriminatory attitudes or intervene in situations where such discrimination can occur on the basis of gender, or any other kind, if they are not equipped with the tools needed to address and intervene. There is one element that seems very interesting to us about the decisive part of the initiative that I am defending today in Marea, is that this inclusion of specific blocks of affective-sexual education is the need — we believe, and we have also defended since the BNG — that education centres and teachers take on training in sexuality. May this cease to be a taboo, we have defended it here on more occasions, and move from private space to public space. Last week, if I remember correctly, I also pointed out to the representative of the Red Cross Youth in the Committee on Equality, which was a fundamental question that this teaching, that this education in the field of affective sex and, above all, in the field of sexuality becomes a fundamental part of teaching in the classrooms; above all, because it warned — and I am looking at it here and I also convey it to those who are not present in that commission — that this leads us to the lack of that training in the field of affective sex in the classrooms, lead us to one of the main sources — or in many cases and, above all, in respect of new people the only almost source of information on sexuality — is pornography, which is supposed to perpetuate roles and the reproduction of violent attitudes. As for affective relationships, also contribute through this incorporation into mainstream education and training in schools to break up -- we talked about it yesterday -- with attitudes, with modes of relationships that are toxic, based on violent, discriminatory considerations, that perpetuate inequality between women and men. And that myth of romantic love of what we were talking about yesterday precisely, of the idea of jealousy as a reflection of a supposed or false love, or the idea that we are incomplete beings we wander around the world looking for our half orange and lost twin soul, which is pure toxicity and that ends...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u131	...contributing to perpetuate gender roles also in affective-sexual relationships. There's nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u133	Good morning and welcome the guests and guests who are in the Galician Parliament today. It's a shame that it is in this terminology... it's a shame that a political leader within this Parliament — as Mrs. García Negro told you well — continues to insist on horror and that they have to listen to all the people who are here, and those who are listening to us, such terminology speaking of education and speaking of equality. I think, of course, it's a shame, it's a pity, of course! [[Applause]] You have a catastrophic stance from En Marea, whatever the matter is, and in this case, once again, they don't fit into reality. Of course, you were saying that if progress has been made, those advances that you have never supported and that you have always voted against in the field of education. [[Applause]] And, of course, we're not going to support your proposal, and I'm going to tell you why. One thing is general education and another very different from the education system in Galicia, the university and non-university education system. Of course, the promotion of equality must take place from the widest and most important point of view, from the broad concept of education in families, in the media, in the public administration and, of course, in the private sector. As we see, equal education must have an impact on society as a whole. But another thing is the German educational system, the university and non-university education system. The education system in Galicia is co-educational and egalitarian, as it is good to reflect, and, of course, equality is present in the curricula of all the Greeks and all the Welsh at school age. And we also have an equal plan in educational institutions, we have a law of coexistence and participation, we have a strategy of coexistence and there is a portal of equality within the Education Council itself. This course also highlights why there is a new cycle within vocational training, a new cycle within gender equality. Also students of first and second compulsory secondary education have within their curriculum, within a matter of free configuration, that subject of Gender Equality. At the 7 Greek universities, thanks to the Galician Union and the equality units, through the 3 campuses of our autonomous community, a number of awareness-raising and prevention of sexual violence in the young people of Greece were held last year. But, in addition to all this, the Education Adviser, Román Rodríguez, presented in 2016 an inquiry before the Galician Conseil of Convivencia, an inquiry that took place with 200,000 people. Among those 200,000 people were families, teaching staff and non-teaching staff, and there were also students. What was intended with this diagnosis that was done in all centres of Galicia of coexistence, of the situation of coexistence in all centers of Galicia? So it's intended to get a diagnosis to know and know in detail the situation of cohabitation in all the centers. Of course, different measures have been initiated, the appropriate decisions have been made, and the educational administration has implemented in the centres themselves and in the educational administration the changes that had to be made, especially the concerns through this survey with 20 million data; the uncertainties have come into leisure spaces, in the playgrounds, in the entrances and exits of the classrooms, and have been launched, of course, consensual to the educational centers and with the Galician Union itself, a plan of improvement, a plan of means of coexistence; in particular, in 230 centres are carrying out this project; some of them have some recognized award with respect for dynamic, inclusive and respectful courtyards and recreations. But, in addition, the results of this survey, 200,000 people within the educational field, were demolitional. Most respondents believe that coexistence has improved over the past three years and that the perfection of positive evolution increases by four to negative. 85% of the surveyed groups also claim that there are no problems of cohabitation or that they may have them at some point in time. 80 percent of families also say there's no problem in the classroom. So we have that data is positive, optimistic, and they show a firm bet on the education system in Galicia, in egalitarian co-education. In addition to this, education has implemented an important work within the 2017-2018 I Training Plan, involving more than 20,400 Greek teachers, 60% of the total, in more than 2,800 activities. Last year, also in the line of formation precisely on equality, coexistence and inclusion, 7,000 teachers and teachers participated, and this year there were 6,000. With which the bet is firm, the bet is clear. And in order to finish, I remind you that Galicia was the first autonomous community that has for all public administration personnel training in prevention against gender-based violence, on gender equality, for all civil service personnel, based on our 2007 Act, on comprehensive prevention and treatment against gender-based violence. And, to finish, simply, to comment on a sentence that I think is very close to today, from a woman who was the Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology, Rita Levi-Montalcini. Perhaps, you, that bench on the left, recognize it; the phrase I think is true: "Women who change the world never need to show anything more than their intelligence." Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u134	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u135	Hard to answer. First of all, thank you, of course, for the support of the opposition groups to this non-law proposal. With regard to the amendments of the Socialist Group, we have assumed the amendment of the fifth point and we will try to look for a transaction soon. Again, of course, I regret, without any surprise, the closure of the People's Party to discuss not one of its proposals that we put on the table. The "not for the no," systematic, sober and useless. Hasn't Mr Feijó appealed to the consensus before? What exactly is the consensus? Of course, never to the consensus that proposed the opposition. They didn't want to go into the debate or put any alternatives on the table. And then sometimes they say you can always get better, but they decide not to. We wonder why, when we talk about teaching in this House, all scientific logic is annulled because of which other speeches are intended to be endorsed, systematically ignoring the conclusions of all and each of the studies cited here. It is really difficult to understand, because we have cited numerous studies that assess the positive results of co-education, co-educational courtyards, equality matters, class sharing, and it doesn't matter; in the best case, they ignore us and, in the worst — the most common — they simply despise them. And why do I say it's really hard to understand this attitude? Because they imagine that, after a series of scientific studies, researchers -- let's say -- from the USC concluded that they had a breast cancer vaccine -- let's say -- for example; it would be a great news, it would occupy the covers of all the newspapers and, of course, it would be used and applied as soon as possible. No Member or Counsellor could or would not want to look elsewhere. So it turns out that with education this happens exactly: that experts have solid conclusions, fruit of serious work, and you prefer to look elsewhere or say that everything goes well, that in schools everything goes perfectly and if you're doing everything you can. And this is false, because, of course, there's macho violence in schools, like there's macho violence in the rest of society. There are no opinions, there are data, such as those provided by the Women's Institute on violence against girls in primary school, which insists that they are gender stereotypes, in which the supremacy of men over women is based, those that serve as assaults from comrades to comrades. We have to break up with this. We must form the teaching bodies so that they are true vaccines against machismo, so that they are the first people to tell our daughters that because they're going to have worse wages, more precarious jobs, more unemployed, less positions of responsibility, of course, it doesn't have to do with ability or chance, it has to do with machismo, that the cause that they're going to be marked, questioned, watched and beaten is called machoism. For all this, we're going to strike tomorrow. For all this, thousands of women will stop tomorrow, because, if we stop, for everything. A hundred and ten years after that first 8th of March in New York, women still want bread and roses, we want everything. They decide which side they're on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. We are now debating, in an inclusive manner, the following non-legislative proposals: the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group, the En Marea Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on equality actions in different areas, particularly the wage divide between women and men. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government to achieve employment and wage equality between women and men, as well as the ratification of ILO Convention No. 189 and Recommendation No. 201, on decent work for domestic workers and workers G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. On the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and ten other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Galicia in the field of equality, conciliation and co-responsibility, elimination of gender roles and stereotypes in communication and in the family and working areas, flexibility in working time, rationalization of hours and fight against the wage divide G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to strengthen the role of schools and teachers in the promotion of equality, as well as the prevention of violence against men and women. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in the field of equality and wage equity between women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u137	The following amendments have been submitted. I beg you to pay attention, because they are amends that are crossed. The fourth proposal, which is specifically that of the Socialist Group, tabled an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u138	Amendments to the proposal by the Popular Parliamentary Group have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u139	The non-legislative proposal of the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment is amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u140	And the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is presented with an amendment of the Socialist Party and another amendment of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u141	So we started the debate with two ten-minute speeches each. In this case, the Socialist Parliamentary Group begins, because, as is traditional in this Parliament, always those which are accumulated comply with the order of registration in the Register. Therefore, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco, begins for a period of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u142	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. All the advances, almost all the advances that have been made in the modern world, the social advances, have been preceded by great mobilizations in the streets. The rights of women did not fall from heaven, we had to conquer them in the streets, as we are going to do tomorrow, March 8th. And as we've already begun, this strike is already a success, and it's for two reasons, for two objectives that have already been met. The first of them is to visualize this new reality of women in all areas of their life, of our life, in particular in the field of work, which is what this initiative refers to. These days we speak in all the media, more than ever, of the data of temporality and precariousness, that we occupy the most precarious sectors of the whole labour market, that we do not reach positions of responsibility. Even though I think we're all aware of that reality and that all of us, throughout our lives, do suffer these eyves, that discrimination at some point, it's true that these days, as I told you, we occupy the front pages of the newspapers and open up the newspapers with those data that are shocking. The second of the objectives achieved was a demonstration last Sunday, of which the socialists today feel particularly proud, a demonstration that put the women of this country at the vanguard of the struggle of rights, of equality between men and women, that put us on the map at the state level; a strike that will be done for the first time and that what happened on Sunday is the anterior phase of that great mobilization that will take place tomorrow in all the localities of this autonomous community. Today we socialists have been — we will be tomorrow too, as we have been historically — reconquering those rights in the streets again. It was particularly regrettable today to hear the President of the Galician Union, for a number of reasons. The first of them, because he, who is called a "man of state", was unable to recognize the effort and work of a socialist government, of the left-wing governments that have brought many initiatives in the area of equality to this country. It's not merit, ladies and gentlemen, it's not only merit of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] The only thing we did, the only thing President Zapatero did with those laws, with those vanguard measures, was to pick up that torrent of struggle for equality on the streets by the feminist movement. We were able to listen and we were able to legislate for and for women. But not everything has been positive for the past few weeks or today. Every time you talk, that you put on the table the struggle for women's rights, you see that evil cave — from our point of view — on the right, which, every time you put those rights on the table, what you do is the same thing that happened today in this House with questions to the President of the Government, which is to impress the most machist, most retrograde and most paternalistic skate of the People's Party. That's what happened in this House today. Of course, the only way the People's Party had supported this March 8 strike would be that this strike was neither a strike nor a feminist, because these are two concepts that produce urticaria. It is especially unworthy — and I am now referring to you, the Members of the People's Party — to your attitude, your complicity during these days with all the statements of your fellows, disparaging the struggle of the feminists, failing to respect all of us and all of us, even worse when these statements are made by women of the People's Party, as happened to the mayor of Mos, inviting us to conciliate by taking the boys and girls to our jobs; or the Councillor of Equality of Ourrans, who always surprises us with some occurrence and the one of last year was to invite us to celebrate this day with zumba classes; this year we preferred to say that what we do to support this strike is to be accomplices to those who put the burka to women. The worst thing about it, what hurts us most, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that you've been silent about it. You didn't say anything at all. You weren't able to raise your voice when we really lacked respect for women, when Mr. Baltar spoke, Mr. Castelao Bragaña, the mayor of Noia or today the president of the board. But if they do it now when we want to go out to defend their rights, their daughters', their sisters' and their companions'. [[Applause]] It hurts, ladies, because you forgot that, if I and all of you are here today, it's because of the struggle and effort of many women in this country. We owe them respect, we owe them of course also to support this strike; and also to half the population of this country, which suffers, every time it gets out on the streets, discrimination for the mere fact of being a woman. It was the best way to claim a fairer and more equal society, which is what we pursue today. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, women of the People's Party, cannot turn their backs on this reality. Political women can't even afford to back us, either, because, without women, it's neither political nor democracy, Your Honor, and we need, more than anyone, to defend the rights of half the population. Besides having the moral obligation to support this claim, we also have the responsibility to legislate and make progress in this House. It is true that there is a formal equality that is recognized in all norms, included in the Spanish Constitution itself, but it is also true that this equality is neither real nor effective. That's why Mr. Touriño, the Government of Mr. Touriño, put in place and planned a Law of Equality at Work, which placed us at the vanguard in the struggle for women's rights, a law of which we feel especially proud and proud, and which is the second time, since this legislation began, we ask him to once and for all dust it out of that box where they put it when they came to the Government; a law of pioneering in the whole state, made also with the consent of all entities. Because we suffer from discrimination in the labour market — according to everyone and everyone we know — at the time we step in a job interview, because they ask us whether we want to have children or not when men don't ask them, because despite the fact that 9,700 women's jobs were created in 2017, it is unacceptable that by growing at a rate of 3% they are still to recover in Galicia more than 30,000 jobs to achieve the value of women's occupation in 2008, it is that, in addition to doing the same job, it turns out that we earn less and we are in the most precarious sectors. And we, from the PSdeG, do want to get into it. That's why we also call for this Pay Equality Act, which we consider essential. We are also champions of temporality. In 2017, 8 out of every 10 people in part-time were women, more than 60 percent of whom they wanted to have an indefinite type of employment, but they can't access it, they don't allow them to access it, in many cases for the chores of the home, because we're still the ones we're also caring for the chores of the home, the care of the children and the children, and the ones we care for the dependents, because when we talk to the women who are out of conciliation, what we're told is: do you reconcile what? And we have to endure, in addition, that low-intensity violence, that thin but constant rain that is silent in the self-esteem of the women of this country, like feeling raped by macho jokes, by the continued use of that machist language, which ignores or devalues us in meetings to the highest degree of that scale too, which is sexual harassment. This government talks a lot about demography, but I've never heard them mention the fear that many women in this country have to get pregnant when they have a job, when they want to get up or when they just want to keep it. It is, therefore, also that we have to legislate and that we must contemplate maternal mobbing and also that we comply with the current legislation on the prevention of work risks, in the protection of maternity and breastfeeding, because yes, the Greek Government itself, the institutions of the Greek Government themselves, are failing to comply with this Risk Prevention Act and are seriously jeopardizing women and fetuses. I don't want to forget those who suffer from precariousness, submerged economy, in their deepest extent, that are domestic workers, invisible work, often unknown, and we ask them again to ratify this ILO recommendation. And all of this happens while these situations are not being reported or inspected by the Labour Inspectorate, because it is neither expected nor expected, and of course, despite the magnificent techniques and techniques in this entity, we continue to insist that these control mechanisms must be strengthened. The PSdEG initiative is long, ladies and gentlemen — it is true — but it can be summed up that we must create new instruments to combat discrimination against women in the labour market, but, above all, that we have to put on the mechanisms that we already have full performance. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin my intervention by appealing to compromise, with a clear and clear message, and I think this debate should revolve over the pact. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to secure a pact, an agreement on equality and not to confront. Mrs. Blanco, you came here to confront, because the president of the board this morning acknowledged that all progress on equal terms was due to governments of different political colors: the Socialist Party...—if, he said, it is recorded, it will be in the Journal of Sessions.— [[Murmurs.]] You come here to confront. I'm not going to tell you that if the Socialist Mayor of Beniflà is going to do an automaquillage workshop to celebrate March 8, I'm not going to tell Mrs. Elena Valencian's veto on the Socialist Party, I'm not going to remind her of the criticisms of her party to the composition of her Executive Committee, etc., etc. We can all talk here about issues that affect equality in all political parties. That's why today I appeal not to confront, because we all have things to solve and we all have things to change and change, precisely because we live in a society in which many gender stereotypes still persist, where there is still a lot of inequality, and, above all, lordships, in youth, which is about what to affect. There were two education initiatives here today. I also ask that there be a great deal in that regard. Because you're talking about the strike. What are we moving our youth with that strike message just for women? You could see for sure that these days a video that was made viral of a teenager who was talking about the strike of women and said something like this: well, because, of course, that the guys have to go to the strike of women, but, of course, it's something that is not of them, that it's as if they add to a strike of fountainers. I came to say something like that. Why, ladies? Because we're moving to youth, to youth, that equality is just one thing for women; and no, ladies and gentlemen: equality is one thing for women and men, it's one thing for everyone. [[Applause]] I thank the unions in this country who had made an appeal to men and women to strike, that it is not just a thing of women, because we are hardly going to achieve full equality if men and women are not involved, if men are not involved in co-responsibility, if men are not in care tasks. Because the incorporation of women into the labour market was full, but the incorporation of men into care tasks and household tasks has not yet been full, and that is the basis of inequality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] That's why our initiative is at the root of the problem. That's why we in our initiative, in the six points we propose, we talk about such important issues as conciliation, such as co-responsibility, such as measures for child care, attention to our elders, attention to dependence. That's where you have to think about, that's where the problems of the labor gap occur, ladies and gentlemen. We can't simplify speech and come here and say that women earn less than men at the same job. That's simplifying the speech, we need to deepen the problems of the labor gap. What are the problems of the labor gap? For, indeed, that women have to have a double daily life, they have assigned the role of care, and from there the woman is in part-time jobs, the woman is the one who asks mostly for maternity leave, the woman is the one who asks for excess child care, the woman is the one who asks for the reduction of the working day for child care, etc., etc., etc. So that's where we have to go, to avoid the job gap, and not come here with initiatives that I respect very much, and I'm going to transfer a proposal from our transaction group, because I think we can reach agreements, because if these four initiatives accumulate, it's because we have a common goal. I appeal to you to look at the points where you agree more than the points where you differ, which are many. Of course we differ in a lot of things, but I ask them to put partyism and ideology aside today. [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, since I entered this Parliament in 2009, I have always called for equality issues to be approved by the majority, by unanimity of all groups, for all of us to participate in the equality agreements. It was very difficult, ladies. In the previous legislation we were unable to make a single institutional statement, not on March 8th or November 25th, because the opposition parties put a health cord to the People's Party to avoid agreeing on equality. To Mrs. Carmen Adán, with whom I have had many conversations outside this Chamber, a person who is very committed to the subject of equality, it was difficult for him to understand that, in fact, in equality it is better to deal with it than to confront it. I recommend that you read the Journal of Sessions from Mrs. Adam's last speech in this House, I recommend that you read it, because it's very interesting. Because Mrs. Carmen Adán, at the end of the legislature, realized that it was better to deal with equality issues, and thanks to this attitude, we were able to unanimously bring out a law in this House to modify the wages of the freedom wage, so that they could be given throughout the year, and the women who were in November, in December, in January, in February, victims of gender violence, had no right to that. When I was working at the CIM, there were women who had been working for up to eight months — the two-party government, gentlemen — late in the salary of freedom. Well, that advance, thanks to all the groups agreeing, was a breakthrough that could be won. It is true that we could only win with the vote of the People's Party, which we had an absolute majority, of course so! but we prefer it to be unanimous in all groups. [[Murmurs.]] While they don't understand that equality is an issue on which we all have to participate, we're hardly going to win a real progress on equality. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have to focus on the causes of the pay gap, the root of the problem, the differences in the co-responsibility in the home, which leads women to have fewer possibilities for access to employment. According to EPA data, occupation is identical between men and women without children. This has to lead us to think: Is maternity a problem? because maternity shoots the payroll at 20 points. Well, we'll have to ink in there. Because motherhood is not the problem, the problem is the lack of co-responsibility, the problem is to put measures and reconciliation resources, and in that, ladies and gentlemen, you, who are so catastrophic, are saying that the Government of the People's Party does not put those means. It's fake. Today we saw the President of the Board giving them the data. I know you say it's not true. For if, indeed, there are more squares of children's schools, there's the Bono Council, there's the small houses, there's all the measures on the table. At the Employment, Economic and Industry Council, measures are being put in place to encourage and encourage the indefinite recruitment of women, to make plans for equality in companies. That's all progress. Don't they look like progress? Let's keep moving. I invite you today to get an agreement and a pact out of here to reach agreements. I was very glad when this legislation began, because we started with a pact. In December 2016 we unanimously approved in this House a motion in which we call upon the Congress of Members to pass a Pay Equal Pay Act. This is already recognised in Article 28 of the Staff Regulations. Is it true that we have to keep working? Well, if we need that law, let's put that law in place. Today we are debating at the Congress of Deputies. Last February we also reached a great deal here. You're always saying that it doesn't matter what we get to agreements, because they don't work out. It's false, it's false; I have the data, gentlemen. You know that we reached an agreement in February to meet a number of issues. For example, we call for increased economic resources to prevent and assist victims of gender-based violence; in 2017 budget growth in the gender-based violence programme was increased to 31.14%, 5.2 million euros, and in 2018, to 4.28%, 5.4 million euros. We also ask for improvement in the media and resources of Justice. Here's the plan for Amtega, the 2020 Road, to favour women victims of gender-based violence and avoid their revitalization. We have the works that have been done in the trials of the seven great cities, and in others such as Orders, Bande, The Boat, Poison, Cambados, Marin, etc., to prevent the victim and the aggressor from falling into the trials. The training of all personnel serving in Justice. The renewal of the agreement with the Ministry of Justice for the formation of judges, magistrates and prosecutors. Intensify measures to prevent gender-based violence, of course! There were annual youth campaigns, friendly screens, other campaigns, such as women and child victims for sexual exploitation. We also request the application of Article 15 of Law 11/2007. Decree 70/2017 was approved for equal training. The promotion of legislative changes on the application of Article 25 of Law 11/2017 has moved to the State covenant, is in measure 148 of the State covenant. Collaboration with Fegamp follows the agreement with Fegamp. And so it could go on, to tell you that all the agreements we've reached here have been complied with, gentlemen; some might be in process, too. We can insist on that. Now, I appeal, ladies and gentlemen, that in the matter of equality we do not confront. We can all say here many things from the other groups, we can all get out here... yes, yes, many, Mrs. White, many, I won't do it, you have the speech you want, I won't do it. [[Murmurs.]] Like today, I'm not going to have a confrontational speech on equality, if you want! I know you do; I don't, ladies. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u146	Well, what we're going to do tomorrow, which is March 8th, is stop. And we're going to stop because the situation of the Greek women demands it. Among other things, their situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u147	Excuse me a moment. Get down a little more, if possible, the... there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u148	Among other things, what forces us to stop tomorrow, March 8, is the intolerable working situation of the Greek women. We're going to talk about wage cracks, but we're going to have to talk about labour discrimination in general on the basis of simple and plain sex. And when we talk about payroll, we usually understand what women charge on average less than men in the labour market. It's a question that has to do with a number of factors, but the main thing is the structural inequality of women, the machismo of society. And let's keep in mind that we're talking only about wage labor, the considered productive. Because if we were to count in the same terms the reproductive work we wouldn't be talking about cracks, we'd be talking about the abyss. This is because the studies that begin to deal with accountancy in monetary terms of care work carried out mostly by women point out that they would achieve between 40 and 45% of each nation's GDP, according to economist Carmen Castro. Well, let's just talk about productive work. But here too we have to make a criticism, because the patriarchal historical accounts have always hidden the role of women in the public sphere, also throughout the evolution of what is considered wage labor. So it can be said that one of the causes of inequality in the woman's labour market is late incorporation into that work. Not exactly, what is late is massive incorporation — as you know — after the Second World War. But women's productive work is linked to the history of wage labor, is linked from the very beginnings of industrialization, to the famous domestic system, to the occupation of very precarious jobs in mining or textiles from the beginning; or even, if they want to go further, we have always been in productive jobs considered precarious, like moving water or milk into cities; or even we can say that in the first strike documented in history in the 12th century, before Christ, in Egypt women actively participated. So, the history of hard jobs is the very specific history of wage labor, it's a story of women from the beginning. But structural machismo made the work associated with women, even though they were as hard and fundamental in the productive structure as others, they didn't have the same social consideration; this translates into the fact that they finally don't have the professional category, this translates into less pay. There we have one of the origins of the wage divide in what's in the productive sphere. The last reason is that the sexual division of work that exists in society as a whole has been translated into the productive sphere. And there we have one of the main causes of the pay gap. Before we begin to degrade the Greek data, we want to remember on these four walls — sometimes we seem to forget — that the rights — as has already been said here — are conquered by fighting; they are conquered as on that strike on 8 March tomorrow, or conquered as a century ago, when the working woman's day was internationalized. Or they conquer themselves as women who in our towns and cities distributed milk through the villages or when the Republican seamstresss were reprisaled. They conquer and we are heirs of all of them, of those who fought for bread — our companion said so — but they also fought for roses. Payroll. We can calculate it in different ways. Eurostat, you already have a lot of work to quote that data, because it simply calculates it based on the average difference between gross income per hour. But we're going to put a change of perspective, we're going to calculate the payroll, considering the percentage of wages that we'd have to earn more women to match men's wages. So we'd be in Galicia in a gap of around 28%. By going to the data of the Tax Agency — which are the most accurate — the fact is that the wage difference, the wage difference that we charge for women on average less than men, is EUR 4,513. The wage difference, intolerable, but the wage gap, the gap, what we should charge women more than our salary, the percentage that we should charge to equal ourselves, would be 28%. Among the causes we agree with what the People's Party has just pointed out, the elements of the wage divide are complex, it's not a reductionism that we do, it's not done by any of the opposition spokespersons. First of all, we have commented, one of the structural causes, the incomplete incorporation of women into employed employment, 52% being women of working age in Galicia have higher unemployment rates, lower employment rates and lower employment rates. But there are also the famous glass ceilings — good, reinforced cement —, only 2.3% of the female occupied population is in management or management positions. Another element of the slot? The feminization of less paid jobs. We have already said why: the sexual division of labour is transferred to the productive sphere; the greater bias, temporality and rotation of contracts that we suffer from women. If temporality has increased during the crisis, women take the worst part, always the precariousness of the precarious. Here's the part-time slot, the women we've devoted to part-time trips, we're 21.8%, 6% in the case of men. Precautionary precariousness. We also take into account that motherhood penalizes, that is, it is evidence; motherhood penalises in the career. Maternity penalizes, among other things, because the care tasks are followed by the majority of women. If we take into account people who said they were inactive and not looking for jobs because of child care or adult or sick people, in 2014 92.3% were women, the health gap! It's another crack, too. All these elements make us generally have that intolerable wage difference between men and women. This situation, as we have said, has a structural cause in machismo; on the one hand, this wage difference which has these indirect causes. But even going to direct wage discrimination, it is not — of course — in the basic wage, it is not because it would be illegal, but it is given in wages supplements and overtime. How do you explain that the pay gap in overtime is almost at 79%? How do you explain? Machism, sex division of jobs, women don't have the same conditions of access as men do overtime. The pay gap, in short, is a discrimination that is indifferent to the level of training, professional experience or the professional sector. It is structural discrimination which affects all sectors and professional categories; the breakdown by branches of activity. The gap is higher in some sectors that have higher pay: banking and insurance, industry — it's an intolerable divide — agriculture — is the biggest wage divide in our country. That's why in our non-law proposal we propose specific employment plans, the gap runs across the labour market. But speaking of wages, it seems to us a bad comfort to the proclamations of the PP, pointing out — and I quote textually Mr. Puy — that: "Galice is somewhat less bad than the rest of the autonomous communities in the wage gap." It's true, but it's hardly comforting, the Greek wages are from the lowest in the state, being the women of an unbearable poverty level. It is unbearable, on the one hand, that the Greek wages lost weight in the economy as a whole, fell nominally in terms of 2009 by 0.5%. But in addition to 30% of the waged population in Greece, they charge the SMI or less. What about women? In women, the percentage rises to 36%. The precariousness of the precariousness, the women who charge the SMI or less, 36%. But if we go down on the pay scale, we have even worse issues inside the precarious, and we're always talking about the misery of poverty. The most numerous wage group in the women of Greece is what's entering the year half the IMS or less, 20% of the employees. It's intolerable, with these wages there is no emancipation possible. By the way, these kinds of wages and conditions also increase the vulnerability of victims of violence, and by the way, the plans for integration into the labour market of them are not working what they should. But let's go to motherhood, the payroll gets fattened with age, and it makes a tremendous leap when women give access to middle-aged maternity in Galicia around thirty-two years. What's going on here? What happens in the great leap that gives the pay gap between the age group from twenty-five to thirty-four years and the age group from thirty-five to forty-four years? For that is motherhood, and that maternity is not equal to men and women in responsible maternity and paternity. We don't, motherhood penalizes; it also directly penalizes, by the way, with employers' reprisals with examples we all know in Galicia. At last, the gap also moves to the highest cities, because labor careers with lower precarious contribution bases and fewer years of contributions give rise to poor pensions. The breakdown of pensions, the intolerable rift of pensions, so our grandmothers also show up. The pension gap, which in the case of retirements reaches 38% in Galicia, is intolerable! And to finish — which I think I don't have any more time left —, pact? We agree with the pacts, in fact, in 2016 — as the People's Party has already mentioned — we proposed a non-law proposal in which we ask for a great deal of agreement from Greek, summoning employers and trade unions to raise Greek wages. What's done? For all we have is a literal board response, an answer that is: "Continue the work between the social partners within the European Council of Labour Relations for the implementation of the agreement." A response to Aznar: "We're working on it." But you can't answer like that, it's intolerable the precarious situation of the female working class in Galicia. It is intolerable, but it is also during the crisis if at first the pay gap was reduced, because the wages of men fell. Once the recovery appears at the macroeconomic level, the pay gap increases again and we find ourselves a chart of poverty, the pay gap is not reduced in Galicia, it has increased since 2014. It's intolerable, it's the shame hole. Yes, but a pact on specific matters and a pact with budgets, there cannot be a pact without acting directly with funds. We know that not only must we act at the wage level, we must act at the root level, we must act by changing the relationships of power in society. But let's start by being equal in the material conditions of existence, let's start by taking seriously that female work precariousness in Galicia is intolerable and, in addition, it's a demographic suicide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u149	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u150	Well, good morning to all and to all. I must, unfortunately, begin my speech by lamenting two questions: firstly, the general tone of the People's Party today, although Mrs Prado had tried to lower it, and secondly, to regret also the unilateral decision to accumulate this debate. I believe that I am not mistaken, at least during the time that I have been a Member of Parliament, it is surprising that four initiatives are accumulated which have an absolutely different exposure or formulation between themselves. This Sunday thousands of women and also thousands of conscious men went out into the street in Vigo, took that city and released a message to the world and Galicia, which I think this House is not understanding and that it leaves us collectively in very bad place. Unfortunately, both inequality and the consequences of patriarchalism are so diverse, so extensive and with such complexity that everything we debate and analyze about them will be little. However, it seems that a part of this Parliament has not yet understood it, and today we have seen what seems to us from the BNG as an exercise of parliamentary cynicism and political simplicity. I'm absolutely sure if we were at the door on May 1st, there would be no accumulation of four initiatives, no matter how much they had to do with work, and I'm sure that's what happened. But you see that at the doors of this 8th historic March, that we are about to live, because something bothers one part of this country: that we are taking giant steps by the feminists of this country in visualizing the problems and also in visualizing their responsibilities. And there are those who are trying to remove the shell, the test is what we live today in the control session. And insulting, of course, is not a good step to aspire to any question. Before I came into this matter, I wanted to make a specific mention of a question that Mrs. Prado said about Mrs. Carmen Adán. Indeed, I remember very much — although I was not a Member — at that meeting, because I remember the satisfaction of comrade Carmen Adán that you had finally managed to vote on this proposal, because it was not the first time the debate was going on, it was not the first time. And of course in 2008 the aid of the so-called, then, the salary of freedom did not reach the twelve months of the year, but how long have they been implemented? How many months a year did they arrive with Fraga? Oh, of course, they didn't exist! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, the logical thing is that in two legislations you've made progress is that whenever you have any progress, it's because of the impulse of the Nationalist Block of Galicia or the German feminists. Well, the job does not doubt that it is a fundamental area for the empowerment of women and that it is impossible for that empowerment without economic autonomy. And so it's urgent to design a different roadmap to move forward in overcoming these discriminations and inequalities. We are convinced and convinced that from Galicia we have to design our own way, and for that we have to be aware of what is the context in which we move. And that's why I have to start by pointing out a question, which is absolutely important for its repercussions: it's the absolute abandonment by the central government. We have to make it clear. The central government captures most of the competitive framework in employment, it's curious! When it suits the People's Party it is the responsibility of the State, when it is not appropriate for them to have a margin of action. Secondly, also the Spanish State, the Central Government is the one who captures most of the economic resources to the detriment of the autonomous communities, and it is also the one who has the ability to raise issues such as economic sanctions. However, we are seeing no priority given to the political agenda of equality. And that is why, as we have not lost hope since the Galego Nationalist Block, we have introduced a first proposal to be asked from the German Parliament, because it is absolutely unprecedented that with a lack of an absolute majority of Mr. Rajoy's application of sanctions has not yet been achieved within the regulatory framework for companies that do not comply with the Equality Law. We do it because we think it's absolutely important to jump to sanctions. Other countries in the environment have already done so: France, Italy, Norway or Belgium have already applied economic sanctions, and more recently we have seen Ireland take steps forward also in the area of equality by adding sanctions and other provisions for transparency, so as to improve a legal framework that is a pioneer. However, we see how from the Spanish state itself and from Galicia we have the opposite attitude, we live permanently in this status quo where nothing needs to be changed. To show, one button, we talk a lot about the inspection, and it's obvious that you have to take a radical turn. Only 0,1 % of the labour inspection fines in 2017 were due to inequality. The ridiculous figure of 135 sanctions. So we understand that there is an absolute desire both from the Central Government and from the part that affects the Greek Government in its own affairs. We have a Galician Union that also violates the matter of equality with the Consortium workers, who have to go to the judges to gain their conciliation rights, which violates equality plans. Today Mr. Feijóo again insisted on equality plans. They've already announced it so many times that it looks like the AVE announcement. Examples like these must lead to reflection. We have a legal framework that we cannot demean, which is important, but which is systematically incomplete and which is not developed, and that leads us to the central proposal that we launch today. Since the BNG we want to propose the creation of a body which, from Galicia — a public body — promotes and monitors the fulfilment of this legislation on equality. A tool, a valuer of equality that, following the model of the Nordic countries, can allow us to move forward. In all light, the economic and labour situation of the Greek women is worrying, a wage gap that, according to some studies, reaches up to 28% and even in pensions reaches that 35%. Wage discrimination which is widespread in all branches of activity, although in some with a higher incidence, and which leaves us a result of EUR 4,000 minus a year for women. A situation in which the consolidation of the figure of the poor worker, the tertiaryization of the economy does not help and which is aggravated by the economic and labor policies of the People's Party. For our own roadmap, we think that even though we should put our heads in the country, we have examples around us that we can't demean. Other countries, such as Sweden, which is always an example of equality policies, have implemented a advocacy against discrimination which also plays a role of counselling and information, and which seeks progress, dialogue and consensus in the social sectors, especially in the entrepreneurship sector and in the labour force. We also have a closer experience in the Basque Country, where more than ten years ago, since a defense of this type has been implemented, than I'll give more data after that. Since Galicia, however, there are examples of how this Galego Labour Relations Council, to which the Comrade of En Marea referred, did not just have the role it should play and how not even the public work itself is monitored sufficiently. This body I mentioned in the Basque Country pays special attention to the private sector. All of us when we evaluate the pay gap agree in its complexity, in which it comes, essentially, through pluses, through categories and other, and which is therefore complex to approach. So we understand that we need to deal differently with this issue, and we have to have examples. I insist that when I refer to private work I also refer to private concessions by public employers, because we have examples also in the Sergas field, or in the Home Help field, which should make us reflect on the implicit complicity of the Galician Council in these matters, by not applying and monitoring recruitment requirements as appropriate. As I say, we know how complex it is to deal with the whole question of labour discrimination, so we propose this body, so that within two months it can put to work specifically this promotion and monitoring of the fulfilment of equality. For us it must have various functions. First, to advise and defend women's rights in the field of work. Even though there is union affiliation, which is important, which often covers this work, we have to keep in mind that there is also an important part of the country that is sometimes left unattended. There are places where the labor of the unions, which is very important, or the work of the inspection, is not enough and therefore it is necessary to strengthen this part. We also find mediation in conflict resolution important, we have addressed it many times in relation to sexual harassment, and this leads us to an important reflection, which is that sex discrimination is not always strictly a labour conflict, it goes much further, and therefore treatment, approach and mediation have to have gender perspective. That's why this proposal. Thirdly, we set out to receive from the companies, in accordance with the recommendations made by the European Commission itself in 2014, information on the salary tables of the staff, including those disaggregated and other supplements, so that such information can be used for negotiation and also for the complaint, because it is thus camouflaged as the salary divider comes. To deepen transparency is absolutely key, to encourage it both on a voluntary basis and, subsequently, on a legal basis. That's the way in which countries of reference follow, like the ones I quoted, and therefore there is no argument not to try to do so. On the other hand, we include additional measures such as follow-up to these equality plans, which are an absolute copy and take in most cases, and also draw up and forward to Parliament an assessment, as other countries do, of what the result of the law is, because we cannot continue eternally self-evident that we have a very broad legal framework, without monitoring, if we really do comply with and where we need to move forward. In conclusion, we think they are proposals to be taken into account. And I was talking about the spokesperson of the People's Party that today was the day to wake up and not to confront. We think you can confront and then wake up, but, in any case, we demand are agreements with firm proposals and not generalities. Not generalities like what happened to that state pact that Mr. Feijóo was talking about, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u152	...—I have finished, Mr President—a lot of use, but that state pact we finally see as a scam, that there are zero legislative changes and zero economic resources on the table. We hope that since Galicia they do not follow the same path, that the pact of the Greek state which has been pushed through a BNG initiative will continue on the way to the debate and crystallize into real agreements. And we'll be there if they're actually willing to change things, but of course our role in this Parliament is not to come to hear the insults of the People's Party and then wash his face with pacts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u154	...false. So that's not what we're going to do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u155	Thank you. Replica tour, Mrs Blanco, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u156	Thank you very much, President. About the amendments to our initiative, the only thing there is about En Marea, which all it does is certain things, small things that we're going to accept without any kind of problem. And we tabled amendments to the other initiatives a little bit in the sense of what I said in my first intervention. Perhaps the main obstacle we have right now with BNG and En Marea is that it is the control body that has to certify and that we must ensure that we are equal at work, but we are convinced that we will be able to reach an agreement without any problems. On the initiative of the People's Party, the truth is that it's true that it's not gold that's all that's clocked, nor flour that's bleached, because the reality is that the text is good, I have to say that it's okay, but the truth is here we've seen to improve with concrete proposals the situation in which women find themselves, and we haven't seen them clean their face with an initiative serving the People's Party, so we won't accept that transaction as much as it is on March 8th, and you want it. [[Applause]] Because look, Mrs. Prado, after insulting all of us and all of the men, too, who are fighting for equality over the last few weeks, and even today here in the full, for it's a little curious, at least, to say that better deal than to confront, this change that the People's Party had in a matter of minutes. That's right, to deal with the People's Party and when it seems to you that it is now, and that it is — as I told you — to clear up the bad conscience and the nerves that these days have on the subject of the strike that is called and which, I repeat, will be a success. Earlier, it's true, the president of the Galician board said we had lost elections because we didn't respect women's equality and rights. I think if we're going to talk here -- and we're going to talk about contributions to the equality of the People's Party in recent years, because we think it's important too. You have appealed to the Constitutional Abortion Law and the Equality Law, have eliminated Education for Citizenship, a UN qualification like -- the UN, uh! -- "retrograde measure that hinders the teaching of women's human rights as part of civic ethics." It's not a statement from the Socialist Party, it's from the United Nations. Women's Institute. He's been missing in combat for quite a while. He suspended the aid to promote wage equality between men and women in the pemes. In Galicia, of course, we couldn't wait long when the Secretary-General of Equality himself was the one who defended in this House the abstention from the Law of Equality on the labour market set in motion by Mr. Tourinño, the only abstention in this House and the only political party that remained outside. And it repeats itself very much, it repeats itself, especially when it comes to March 8, because I was listening today, we listened to our colleagues and the president of the board, and it was like a kind of dja vu, because it was talking about a plan of co-responsibility and an equality plan. And of course, the press notes, Mrs. Prado, are there, since 4th of 2015, in order to consult them. 23 of 7 of 2016, 10 of 3 of 2017 and today, 7 of 3 of 2018. And then I'd ask him, at least, to stop taking our hair, to make the equality plan that they do at once, and if not, look, we already had an equality plan made in the Bipartite. Then I'll give it to him. There were 170 million euros that you put in a drawer and there's absolutely nothing going on. We really don't mind if they cut and beat if they don't have any ideas and they're going to go on like this. I'm telling you with total honesty, Mrs. Prado, cut and paste, that we have no problem with it. [[Applause]] Not to mention the ten years of delay that just denounced the UXT union of the Equality Plan of the Greek Public Administration itself. But look, you believe so much in equality and both in the protection of women in pregnancy and breastfeeding — as you have said — that I will now read an excerpt from a letter that sent us an O.R. from a public hospital in this autonomous community: "When a pregnant woman in this hospital communicates her state, she has to wait an average of two months to be removed from her post if there was a risk in which she usually occupies her position. There are places like mine, nurse of surgery, in which it has been clear for many years, and, despite that, currently a companion is waiting for almost two months to be given the risk assessment, while the unit supervisor adapts his work as it seems, without following any sort of standardized instructions or known by the woman involved. So, please, he adapts the post while the proceedings are deliberately delayed to get permission. And so, please, we assume your colleagues and colleagues tasks that the person involved is afraid to carry out by potentially putting her fetus in danger. And this woman still waiting, desperate, crying in the bathroom because she felt bad, because she knew that this would happen to her, it wasn't the first time, it was her second pregnancy, but at the bottom, although she knew it, she felt guilty -- that's what you do to women, to blame them -- "for not fighting with more force from the beginning." They should suspend the contract immediately and go on to enjoy the permit, but the last time, and then other companions, they delayed that suspension of the contract in one of the cases in more than three weeks." Mrs Prado, how are we not going to deal with this situation? How are we not going to confront a law on risk prevention in pregnancy and breast-feeding that you are failing? You, who are called family protectors, the family forum, don't respect the motherhood of the women in this country, nor the public servants who want to have children. [[Applause]] As you keep considering also that conciliation is a matter for women, and we clearly see it, we see it in that act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u157	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u158	...organized by the Galician Equality Board where she has child care. It must be that all the rapporteurs are women, because it is the first time that the Greek Government takes a measure about it. Yes, care, as stated here in social policy campaigns, always associated with the woman's image. Children's schools, which you spoke here. Well, there were, of course, many fewer infantry schools when we got to the government, because you didn't do anything in the previous years, but there wasn't a single project, Mrs. Prado, not a single one. And you are now receiving the inheritance of all the projects that have been abandoned, of all the childish schools that have been left planned and which, in addition, are putting in place late. It is insulting to hear in this House members of the People's Party say during these days that we are well, that we are much better, when there are more women than men of working age, but less participating in the labour market, with data that I don't have time to give all, but for example, by setting up a case, access to positions of responsibility, Greek companies with more than 250 workers, only 10.74%, when the law marks 40% in executive positions, even under the state average, which is 11.23%. And what's worse, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with a data worse than the previous year, which was 15.65%. And we could still talk about how they now talk about the Dependency Act, after they dismantle it and not meet the agreements, and everything that has been reflected at the budget level, as we saw yesterday, because there are 100 million euros not running in that Dependency Law, and they still come today from talking about the care and talking about that law that they've dismantled since the year 2012, seal the pet, and they're still doing it without pause. You said here that message we're moving to youth and encouraging them to go on strike. Well, look, we're moving the message that the rights that they and they and they have collected have won them in the streets by their mothers and grandmothers, and that they have to do the same if they want to keep moving forward and regain the rights that their policies have taken them in recent years. The problem, Mrs. Prado, is that after 8th there will be a day later, this is unstoppable, women are fed up, and we say that it's enough to endure everything we've been enduring, in the labour market too, over the last few years. And we will continue to fight and we will continue to do it around feminism, although the minister himself said today on a radio station that feminism is a label, despising the struggle of millions of women in this country that are, of course, the ones that have achieved — no doubt, and go ahead with our recognition — the most important social advances in this country. Despite that, even though they don't want to be remanded to improve women's employability and fight against working precariousness and glass ceiling, we're not going to stop the Greek women either. This, Prado lady, is unstoppable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, the truth is I spoke before an intervention which should be a model for all. I'm going to tell you, the Galician Parliamentary Journal of Legislative No. 161, I recommend that you read it, because you have become the worthy successor of your former companion Carmen Acuña. Read Mrs Acuña's speech — if, yes, because she forgot — I was not at that time, but I read the speeches in a very interesting way. You say we support your concrete proposals. What is your concrete proposal? In your initiative, you ask us to comply with a derogated law. You ask us to comply with the law of 2007, should you know that the law of 2007 is with the law of 2004 — yes, Your Honor — it is recast in a text of 2015 but, of course, if you don't even know that, Your Honor, how do you come here to make specific proposals, Mrs Blanco? How do you come here to make concrete proposals? [[Applause]] And you say I come here to lower the debate. You've been checking all the logbooks since I was a Member. I have always said in this House that equality issues must be dealt with, and that we must agree on equality issues. I've always said that. Look at the session log. And you didn't listen, because you come here saying that I said we moved a message to society that men... No, I said the opposite. I said that equality is for everyone, for men and women, and that the strike that convenes only women is excluding a very important part of society that must also be working for equality, which are men. And if you want to exclude men from equality, you make a serious mistake, Your Honor, you make a serious mistake. And that's the message they're moving to youth, that they're out of the question of equality, that the theme of equality is women's thing. [[Applause]] No, Mrs. Blanco, no, equality is one thing for everyone, for men and women. And as long as we can't get men to join equality, we're hardly going to achieve full equality, there you are, with that speech! Look, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u161	She is speaking in this debate, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand that the ladies of... well, I'm not going to say anything, I'm going to stay on my line, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u163	It wasn't the lady.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u164	I know that it was a Member, Mr President, and I understand that I would like to speak today, and I would be delighted that a Member had spoken today, because only one Member of En Marea spoke at this plenary session. It should also lead us to a reflection: why women only debate issues that I understand are minor. I also consider that perhaps today's spokesperson should show solidarity and also leave a woman, and if she can't, by regulation, for solidarity and not talk, that's the situation, or let them put on their shirts, too. We're going to continue the debate and we're not going to give up. You spoke of childhood schools, Mrs. Blanco. Putting on bricks is very easy, the important thing, the cost of money, is equipping children's schools, and you didn't, you didn't, you didn't; talk to your spokesman and explain what it means economically to do with them with 2,000 million euros less in budget, Mrs. Blanco. That's the People's Party's commitment. And you didn't come to tell me about the law of dependency, because, what did you do for four years of government bipartisan on dependence, how many dependents did you attend? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to keep these things moving forward, and they're moving forward, and it's not the black country you're trying to paint, I'm really sorry. Madam Presas, in question of insults, if you look into the Journal of Sessions for sure that you find many more of the People's Party than others, or probably none, because they're all retired. That's a shame, because at the end of the story we're going to have to look for it in the hemerotheques, because every day, in every plenary session, Mr. Santalices is asking to withdraw things, and not exactly from the People's Party, mostly come from those benches, lordship, mostly. [[Murmurs.]] And I also tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u165	Quiet. Quiet. The debate was in a very good tone, please, to see if we can keep it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u166	And I also tell you that if you liked the intervention of your companion Carme Adán, it's a pity I had to be applauded by this bench and not by your partymates, Mrs. Presas. Look, Mrs Vázquez Verao, to promote equality in collective bargaining if they started work on the Galego Labour Relations Council with the General Employment Secretariat, but as you know, there is a very important step in these negotiations, which is the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, and knows that it is in the process of electing a new directive, and while there is no stability to the Confederation, you will hardly be able to continue and advance in negotiations. We, for everyone's sake, hope that they will soon solve their problems so that they can move on on. It's a parliamentary agreement, it's a parliamentary agreement that has begun and is working on it, but it's not the responsibility of the Galician Union or the People's Party that is not moving forward in that negotiation. Mr Blanco spoke of UXT, because if you actually read the last UXT report, Mrs Blanco, you can see how Galicia is one of the communities that is best on payroll. Only six autonomous communities are below the high wage gap of 22.86%, including Galicia. And do you know which three are the most strikingly growing? — which says UXT that it is not suspected of being of the People's Party—for it is Asturias, for example, that it is a socialist government. Well, look, Mrs. Blanco, we're not going to be able to accept your socialist proposals either, because it's clear that they are failed, Mrs. Blanco, and the People's Party doesn't say it, says the UXT report this February, which I suppose you'll know because you alluded to it. [[Applause]] Look, in Galicia at the pay gap, Mrs Vázquez Verao said, we can talk about figures, we can talk about Eurostat, UXT; on this date everyone has made reports, everyone has analyzed the data from EPA, everyone has analyzed the data from INE. But it is true that we all agree that there is indeed a problem, but we must go to the root of the problem, ladies and gentlemen, which is what I said. And I agree with many of the things you have said, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, and I think that's why today, I offer you a seven-point agreement, we can reach agreements. It's in your hand, now well, you can't tell us that today we want to wash our faces, wash our faces. No, ladies! I always, and all the voices and all the voices of equality that there was of the People's Party, always put the interests of women and men in the matter of equality above the acronyms. Yes, yes, yes! And look, I'm going to read them some statements, "Feminism isn't a left-handed feminism. We have a common cause, a common cause between all of us, and all of the People's Party, the AGE, the BNG, we're all for the same cause.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You know who said that? He was no one of the People's Party, he was Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, Communist Member of the Joint Group in this House in the past legislation. This was the case with Mrs Acuña of the Socialist Party, who, before the amendment of the Act 11/2007, to regulate a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence, said it was a joke. You are a worthy successor to Mrs. Carmen Acuña, Mrs. Blanco. Read that Session Diary. And I'm going to tell you something else, I'm going to read another paragraph of that Session Journal. [[Interruptions.]] He said, "Do you know why we are sometimes so hateful to society? Because many times we don't know how to be above the acronyms, because the acronyms are just instruments, they're never in themselves.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Murmurs.]] You know who said that? Carmen Adam. This isn't a laugh, Mr. Losada. Thank you very much, but to me, honestly, that you take this debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u167	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u168	...of laughter, the truth and that is lamentable. It's unfortunate!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u169	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u170	I would ask that we make a new commitment today to the Greek society, to agree on equality, for the benefit of women, for the good of society and for the good of Galicia. We offer a transaction proposal, we hope to reach agreements. If they don't want to come to an agreement, there you are. We will continue to hold hands, and we will continue to offer a covenant and an agreement. Because you see, ladies and gentlemen, equality and feminism are not the heritage of the left, and let's not do as Margarita Nelken and Victoria Kent voted against the female vote in this magnificent debate with Clara Campoamor, a socialist whom other socialists voted against the female vote. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it's a good time to break up with these partisan issues and put women's interests above the acronyms and above the partisan interests. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u172	Too bad that debate on women's vote could not continue with a fascist uprising, not yet socially condemned in our society. [[Applause]] Wage equality claims also appeared at that time, at the time when Galician society tried to shake all the cracks of the past, also inequality, but unfortunately there was a delay of more than forty years in that process. But we're here, we're in a context where the Greek women's wages, let's repeat it, they're of misery, they're intolerable. We are here, because we do not understand how we cannot have the absolute priority of a government to raise women's wages and generally raise Greek wages, because they are of the lowest in the state, and some of the issues we propose, because it would immediately increase the minimum inter-professional wage, but not a minimum increase, to at least EUR 1,000 before 2020, to allow a decent standard of living for all working people. We don't understand, for example, the fact that we don't recognize the responsibility of the board on a matter. One thing is what happens at the Galego Labour Relations Council, but another is that the Board didn't even consider itself worthy of bringing a report on how the situation was in agreement with that. It was by a question from En Marea that we learned about the level of execution of that agreement, but a report to this Parliament that is the representative of popular sovereignty. The question of wages is very graphic in seeing the inequality that women in general have in society, and it has been clearly seen since 2014 as the crisis does not reach either youth or women. For us this is the chart of shame, the pay gap from 2014 onwards, it grows again, why? Because recovery does not reach youth or women, it's intolerable, it has to do with not only gender inequality, but also class inequality, because Greek wages are losing weight in the economy. We are going to talk about each of the initiatives, and with regard to the amendments, to us, Mrs Prado, the initiative of the PP seems somewhat vague to us, to sink into campaigns that deepen the transmission of values. You have to see it in practice, in the Welcome Card campaign, only women are going to be raising, by the way, without any of them feeding the baby, despite the recommendations of the WHO, you don't go to see a boob around there. Or also the "Greatest Galician Campaign doesn't get mistreated," that all the experts asked at the Equality Commission pointed out that it wasn't a proper campaign. We have to see him in practice. Advance to co-education. Let's stop subsidizing schools that segregate by sex, that would be a concrete measure. They also had comprehensive proposals to advance equality in an En Marea GNP of this whole. Conciliation measures, we really advance in the generalization of public education from zero to three years, but not as you do as you are also moving forward in the model agreed in child education, because the Bono Council is making private business in child education more favourable than extending the public network. Plan Uses in Women, for now the only one we find, the only action activated, and correct me if I am wrong, but in the CEO the only one that appears is 2 million euros specifically intended for employment plans of stopped women, within the call for grants of integrated employment programmes, July 2017. Only 2% of the announced plan. That's all it looks like in the CEO, one thing is to promise and another to execute, as we've already told you this morning. But before we look at the other proposals, too, about the central issue, which I think we all agree today, that maternity is penalizing women's career; it is a statistical evidence and the last studies point to that the main cause of the wage gap is precisely that. I think we agree there today. What's wrong? That we have to agree on specific actions, and not just on declarations of intent. And not only look at the numbers, but look into the eyes of women who suffer from this situation. On many occasions — through this case of the BNG — the case of Nélida Pisco was brought here, who suffered harassment at work because of having a child and caring for her. Why does it not apply measures to prevent the Union from having service concessions with companies that are harassing maternity workers? Women like Maria de la Fuente, who went out yesterday in the newspaper, director of the Santiago Institute of Health Research, who besides being unable to reconcile, like so many women, is penalized because no correction factor for maternity time is taken into account in the career. Women who suffer from what Mrs. Blanco tells you, that distress that in pregnancy, risk situations are not valued, when there are them. And we are at the root of the problem again, in the unequal sexual distribution of tasks, a fundamental issue on the issue of care. Before we got a data on the issue of care, because temporality is higher in women, and why is this temporality given? Well, more than 60% of the women who work part-time, because they don't find a full-time job, say 13.5% of those who have accepted this job because they care for minors or dependents, compared to 2% of the men who did it for the same reason. There's the care crack. And the magnitude of the problem that causes all this, the magnitude of the problem that makes the pay gap intolerable, we can also see it in absolute terms, if it's perhaps more graphic. In the case of Galicians, in thirty-five years of working life, each of them averages 178,000 euros less than one man. Let's think of the social message that translates into all of this, the social message is that we are worth almost 200,000 euros less. That is the social message, the pay gap — ending with the different material conditions of life — is also fundamental to ending up with machismo at all levels. As for the non-legislative proposal of the BNG, we proposed that the defence functions against labour discrimination should be attributed by strengthening that Galego Labour Relations Council, which needs to be strengthened specifically by means and personnel. But, of course, we do not oppose the motions for resolutions, nor the establishment of that body; moreover, at the state level in the proposal for a Equal Pay Act we also proposed some other creation of bodies, so we will vote in favour even if the amendments are not accepted. And we particularly agree, I said, with the need to introduce economic sanctions to companies not only that they do not comply with equality legislation, but also that they treat women in a non-compensation manner, and in fact in the GNP of equal pay, we also increase sanctions in some cases. By the way, it's very good to say that we agree on a bill at the state level of pay equality, but then you see it in Congress, and it's not a great example to move forward in equality! From the PNL of the PSdeG, we amend, it is true, some questions which have to do with this question of strengthening the role of the Galego Labour Relations Council; if there is this body, if there are professionals, in addition, specialized in the issue of gender and employment, it should be strengthened by means and by staff. We also believe that in your proposal — which is also very broad — that it not only has to do with wage discrimination, if you must point out, precisely, that labour discrimination is about gender, and not just about wage discrimination, more than anything because your proposal is so broad that it is not just limited to wages, which is good, I am not saying it as a defect in the proposal. Then we also insist on the need to have specific employment plans for the inclusion of women in the R & D+i sector, because we continue to be minority women, only 12% in ICT careers, sectors that later have a higher level of employment than others. Of our amendments, of the amendment to our LNP, today the debate is a little complex, and I also use here to say that perhaps these four non-law proposals should not be accumulated. We accept the amendment to point 5, we reject point 11, because we maintain that the 2010 reforms were also harmful to the working class, and particularly to women, and we also add a question of what we have been talking about here throughout the debate, which the Board must set an example, must set an example in having employment plans, specific equality plans in all its agencies and bodies, real equality plans. You should set an example in not cutting off in the wellness functions, because that falls on women's shoulders. It must require the Government of the State to recover the funding of social contributions for dependents, because otherwise it would have the effect that women who have access to social security are still taking care of but not contributing. Finally, it must revert to concrete and real measures. To finish, simply a reflection that I think we all share, to end with gender inequality, with intolerable glass ceilings -- we say before armed cement -- because it is tremendous discrimination, with discrimination by motherhood, with lack of co-responsibility, and structural measures are needed, a profound social change. But we don't understand how clearly the urgent need to raise the Greek salaries, especially women's wages, is not clear, because that material inequality is seriously affecting equality, among other things, in such a serious situation that it is increasing the vulnerability of victims of macho violence because of that lack of emancipation capacity. No more, and with regard to the compromise proposed by the PP, we do not want to accept any more declarations of intent, we want real commitment to equality, we want budgetary commitment, and at least they have not even accepted the commitment to stop subsidizing schools that segregate by sex, this is intolerable! Equality begins in education, in early childhood education, in education even from zero to three years, so it is so important a public education network from zero to three years, and of course also, parental and maternity permits — as has already been said this morning — equal and untransferable. If we're equal, we legislate, not only do we comply with legislation, and let's make the equality of material conditions materialize, it's worth redundancy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u173	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u174	Well, with regard to the comrades of En Marea and the Socialist Party, I will address, firstly, the position on their initiatives, which we will support from the BNG. It's a shame that recognizing that they're both very interesting and very complete, because we have to give this debate a little bit of a shot, I imagine that whoever listens to us won't even know that we're talking very well, because that's frankly complicated. [[Applause]] As I say, we could go deep into some questions like this. We shall vote in favour of both, because we believe that they have a spirit that we share, of concern about the failure to comply with the law and of concern about the failure to comply with Parliamentary agreements. The Socialist Party focuses on the reinforcement of the inspection, which we understand is a necessity, although there are some issues that relate to our proposal, but in any case it would be a question of working and debulating islands, and the Comrade of En Marea is more focused from the perspective of the Labour Relations Council. The two include issues that also seem important to us: research, study, calculation, analysis of reality, which, unfortunately, since the Bipartite in this country has not been strictly done. Finally, we will vote in favour, even though we will not accept the amendments, because we believe that they are a bit disorientated on our initiative. In any case, I imagine that both they and we will continue to insist, and at other times we will be able to move closer to the positions to improve the three. Well, more to the questions already referred to by the spokesperson of the People's Party, in the replica we checked how she was dressed as a sheep, but immediately if she saw the wolf's skin, the role of consensus is not good for her, and she again offered us this poisoned consensus which is always trying the People's Party, a little consensus, to see if this is not spoken of and if she loses some social relevance, and while we continue to hide that we are not doing, practically, nothing. I wanted to point out several things: first, yes, the BNG claims that this is a female strike, men have been taking too long in the photo, and tomorrow we're going to be the ones who're going to make history. [[Applause]] They, comrades, as I see you are many of this House, are welcome to a secondary role, to help us in a background, assuming these tasks of care so that many women can go to these demonstrations and develop their right to strike, also assuming in companies a positive role in supporting this and other call. You, many of you, are conscious and you are changing your traditional masculinity, and you know what we're talking about and you're going to be there, and I want to thank you too, but this picture, this historical moment, will be women's. Secondly, of course it has to do with the economic and political system this strike, of course! As a matter of fact, one of its first won is to place the capitalist system at the centre of the debate, indeed, and also to place our central government's dependence on our country. Already in my first intervention, although I did not want to enter the spokesperson of the People's Party on it, I argued, above all, that they demonstrate the absolute abandonment of the central government, and how precisely the lack of sovereignty prevents matters such as inspection from being managed differently. Of course it has class character and nation character. Logically, of course there will be confrontation. See that proletarian bullying strike has made some progress for the working class! [[Applause]] It's a shame, by the way, that I haven't made this review of countries in the world today, that we didn't understand, Mrs. Prado, that I was distinguishing between North Korea and South Korea the other day. Well, entering another question, it's normal for them to have to quote the women on the left, it's absolutely normal, because the right has always been, internationally and also in Galicia, the shell on the left and the tail of the feminist movement. He did it to decriminalize adultery, did it in divorce, did it in gay marriage, did it in abortion and in women's reproductive rights, and did it also in conceptualization and in the fight against male violence. In absolutely every debate, the right is always the bluff. And more specifically, the People's Party is often the rebuff of the Galician Nationalist Block, as much as it bothers you. [[Applause]] But it was always the feminist movement, often represented by representatives of different forces on the left, who was moving these changes to the institutions. And unfortunately we always go very behind their demands, so they have to quote Carme Adán and other companions. Because in the logbooks and in the press notes... I would say to God! but just like someone offends me. Of course, if you have to quote Mr. Rajoy saying that we don't get into this, Mr. Tellado giving lessons from what is the most machist in the world and so on, because I understand that they are very stinking and they don't dare. [[Applause]] I'd be ashamed too. My solidarity, Mrs Prado. Well, we are convinced that both this March 4th and this March 8th will undoubtedly be historical moments and that there will be changes that we will not be able to see at the moment. But in the long term, future Members will be able to see history and say that that moment, this collective success, has contributed to speeding up many legislative changes and improving our lives. You also have the People's Party few examples of their own governments to suck here. He couldn't, in his reply, clarify anything at all about the complaint we've been sending from the Consortium workers; and nothing, absolutely, of what they're going to do from the public authorities themselves so that issues such as contracts for the cleaning of public services have no sex or gender, and absolutely no answer about sex segregation, which has already emerged in the debate. I wanted to mention also — as did Comrade Verao — Nelida Pisco to add not only that the Galician Union did not take measures nor pushed any kind of control mechanism from such cases, where it has more than a dozen judgments, from Labour and the courts. Not a single one! Today Nélida Pisco received no one from the German Government. He was there on that bench and no one from this bench or no one from the German Government dared to look into his eyes. [[Applause]] I'm not surprised. I didn't want to stop commenting on any more questions I'd forgotten before. Speaking of comrade Carme Adán, he also insisted over and over again on that German Women's and Science Program, over and over again. And it was late, bad and the trail that drew a new PDF with that plan without making a rigorous evaluation of the previous one. We also have, in the field of conciliation — I am not going to go into the question of children’s schools — for example, that the aid to private enterprises, which come into the budgets of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, are frozen. He grew the budget and didn't grow. And so on and so forth, while they sell us a poisoned consensus. And I insist on poisoning because you don't need our votes to carry out not just one of the proposals we make to them. In fact, historically they end up assuming some of them, often partially and to disable debates, but end up assuming them. So they are freely invited to take on what they consider, but of course we are not going to give our vote in favour of an initiative that, even though with the transaction that happened to us introduces some novelty, does not introduce real changes and does not introduce concrete measures that we can evaluate and that suppose a substantial change and a correction of their equality policy. Because we understand that it's not working and we demand a correction, not a applause from them. And this, ultimately, is what scandalizes us. They scandalize us, after a year and a half, to have to continue here talking about cases like Nelida Pisco, not to put the word "cona" in a poster, which seems to be the only concern within the practising Puritanism of the People's Party. That, by the way, Mr. Feijó gave it up -- I didn't see it, but I said it -- the other day he said, in first time, "dog." [[Applause]] And no one was shocked. [[Applause]] Then you're going to be shooting at Mr. Feijóo himself, for the same reason he's leaving. Finally, we invite them to be less concerned about the campaigns of the Galician Nationalist Block, less concerned about trying to take advantage of collectives to give debates that don't proceed, when it was you who didn't want to pass a law here. And I also use it to thank the trans-Galiza collective for standing in the last few weeks on the debate at the state level and at the international level also on feminist symbolism, the symbolology of female genitals as a weapon of the feminist movement itself in the visibility of that struggle, and so on. And to pass on to them that, of course, we are here to bring their voice every time they consider to defend trans depatoloxization and to defend all the issues that from their collectives want to convey to us. Our respect for their identity and their struggle is absolute and unquestionable. I also want to claim — and I finish by — that what you need is less appeal poisoned by consensus and more law development, less empty initiatives and more listening to others. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. We'll give you time to talk. Isn't there a chance they'll come to some kind of deal? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not good news, but good news. Well, then we're going to vote, then. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u176	We started by voting on non-law proposals. We voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo, on the improvement and expansion of the Galician programme of polymedicated patients. The amendments tabled by the rest of the groups were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the improvement and expansion by the Galician Union of the Welsh program of polymedicated patients. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u177	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Pierres. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and six other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Junta de Galicia so that the courtyards of educational centres are spaces of co-educational relationship in which equality is promoted and the dynamics of gender hierarchys and stereotypes are broken, as well as to enhance different uses of available surfaces. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; against 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u178	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Prado. There was an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I don't know if you accepted it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Didn't you accept it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask for a point of order. How many points does the proposal have? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are they two points or two paragraphs? It is, of course, appropriate to distinguish this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. So do we vote paragraphs separately? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote paragraph one, that is, the first. [[Murmurs.]] Vote of the first paragraph of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Councilloría do Mar in order to avoid the impact on the environment, on the Ulla River and on the Arousa River, of the project to reopen the copper mine located in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; against, 38; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. The first paragraph of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u179	Let's vote for the second, paragraph two. We vote. Vote of the second paragraph of the G.P. Non-Law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Councilloría do Mar in order to avoid the impact on the environment, on the Ulla River and on the Arousa River, of the project to reopen the copper mine located in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; against 38. The result of the vote is negative. The second paragraph of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u180	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms Luca Chao. There's a transaction. Can you read it? You got it? If not, I have it here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u181	Yes, the point one would remain: "Create equal agents squares in educational centres to move forward towards joint teams of guidance on equality, with specific training in equality and prevention of male violence. In order to take this into account, equality agents must at least believe in the specific qualification of higher-grade vocational training." And point five would be left as in the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u182	We vote for that transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to strengthen the role of schools and teachers in the promotion of equality, as well as in the prevention of violence against men. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; against 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u183	We are now voting on the joint debate. And we started by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. On the amendment by En Marea, Mrs. Blanco, will you accept the amendment by En Marea? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We voted with the amendment of the accepted tide. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government to achieve employment and wage equality between women and men, as well as the ratification of ILO Convention No. 189 and Recommendation No. 201, on decent work for domestic workers and workers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; against 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u184	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, which has made a compromise proposal to the other groups and which, I understand it, do not accept it. So we vote on the non-law proposal as it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. At the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and ten other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Galicia in the area of equality, conciliation and co-responsibility, elimination of gender roles and stereotypes in communication and in the family and working areas, flexibility in working time, rationalization of hours and fight against the wage divide. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u185	We are now voting on the proposal by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, which has already commented on accepting the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The point, in particular, is number 5. And you don't accept number 11. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u186	Point voting, of course, that's why I said we had to talk. Of course, now we're back to what I was saying from the beginning, it was good that they spoke because this... it's just that you don't know, this is the problem... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They're talking about a moment that's all right. Man, of course! [[Murmurs.]] It's just that this has changed substantially, you have to know what is being voted on, that's essential. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, please! if you want to talk for a moment to know what we're going to vote for. [[Murmurs.]] There's no rush. No, no, no hurry. [[Murmurs.]] We need to know what is being voted on. That's fundamental. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs Vázquez Verao, please, what is the proposal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u187	Yes. The only amendment to be accepted is the amendment to amend point 5, if they consider it. It's pretty long. That's exactly the amendment I proposed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u188	That was accepted. Now you ask for a point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u189	Yes, from 1 to 10.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u190	With that built in?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u191	Sure, built in, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u192	And how many points are there?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u193	I'm from 1 to 10.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u194	From 1 to 10 together. And apart, which one?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u195	We would vote separately on point 11, of which the Socialist Party's amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u196	Then he asks from 1 to 10 all together, and 11 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u198	That's right. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Mrs. Prado? Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u199	Yes, since voting by points is allowed, I would ask you to vote number 10 separately too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u200	Do you accept Mrs Vázquez Verao who votes or 10 separately? [[Murmurs.]] It was important to have spoken, I said so. [[Murmurs.]] It's simple, it's from 1 to 9, it's 10 separately and it's also 11. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I want you to make arrangements, that's clear. I want you to agree with everyone, but I want a Member to know what he's going to vote for. Man, please! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr Vázquez Verao asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs Vázquez Verao?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u201	Yes, we have no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u202	That's right. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please, it's important, it's important! We're going to vote from 1 to 9 first, 10 separately and 11 separately. Let's vote, first from 1 to 9. We vote. Vote on points 1 to 9 of the compromised text of the Non-Law Proposal, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. of En Marea, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece before 2020, and the demands to be made by the Central Government, in relation to the gender pay gap, Law 35/2010 and Royal Decree Law 3/2012, of urgent measures for labour market reform. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u203	We now vote point 10. Vote of point 10 of the non-law proposal, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. of En Marea, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece before 2020, and the demands to be made by the Central Government, in relation to the gender pay gap, Law 35/2010 and Royal Decree Law 3/2012, of urgent measures for labour market reform. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. Point 10 of this text is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u204	We now vote point 11. Vote of point 11 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece before 2020, and the demands to be made by the Central Government, in relation to the gender pay gap, Law 35/2010 and Royal Decree Law 3/2012, of urgent measures for the reform of the labour market. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u205	We now vote point 11. We vote. [[Protests.]] Sorry, it was this one. Right, calm down, one mistake has any. It's okay. All voted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've tried to be careful, but I'm human, for now. [[Murmurs.]] Now we're going to vote on the Non-Legal Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Monserrat Prado Cores. He said he did not accept the amendments either of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or of En Marea. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in the field of equality and pay equity between women and men. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u206	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 4 of the agenda, which corresponds to interpelerations. Interpellation by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other G.P. Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on which measures plans to adopt the Government of Greece for the implementation of the parliamentary agreements relating to AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u207	Mr Bará has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u208	Thank you, President, for being human right now. For now, for now! [[Laughter]] Counsellor, I don't know if you remember where I was on December 30, 2017, December 30, the last working day of the year. Do you remember where I was in the morning -- gave him more data -- between 11:30 and 12:00 in the morning? You were in Rande inaugurating the bomb and dishing an abusive rise of the beaches; live and deferred, because that day they were inaugurating a climb of the beaches. You were, along with Mr. Feijóo — Feixóo — and Rajoy — Raxoi — (harmonic bilingualism), participating in a farce, participating in a joke. Because that was not an act of inauguration of the works, which, as we know, did not end. I don't know if you've been there lately, if you've been to Vigo lately, if you went to AP-9. But you'll see the works aren't finished. It happened over there, I suppose. Well, you were there, with Raxoi and Fexóo, handing them the treasure of Rande, in the form of a new rise of the beaches, the Audasa and the Capital Corsario, which is the main partner, as we know, of the Itinerian Group, an American investment fund called Capital Corsario, which is what is taking advantage of this vital infrastructure. Well, look, we agreed that day, I was there too. BNG was there too. What happens is that there is a difference: the BNG was protesting, the BNG was manifesting, the BNG was denouncing a new deal of favor to the dealership, denouncing the scam to put into service unfinished works — which was what happened that day, putting into service unfinished works — with the sole intention of favouring private interests and being able to apply the rise of fees. The BNG was also there denouncing the acceleration of the works in recent months — with serious accidents included, which occurred, as you know, in recent months — in a race against clocks in order to be able to apply the rise of the fees in 2018; a rise of 3.81 % which, as we know, is the result of agreements signed by the Ministry of Development in the years 2011 and 2013, governing the Socialist Party and the People's Party. And I clarify this detail because it's important, because, as you know, the Minister of Development, Ana Pastor, ratified and expanded the convention signed in 2011. And this gross rise of 3.81 percent is the result of these two conventions. By the way, Counselor, the BNG militants who made this protest have just been notified of the fines. That's their recipe: for Audasa, for Itinerer, for the corsary background, benefit and prejudice, treat them favour, put the red carpet on them; and for those who denounce the abuses and the scam, fines and repression. That is the democracy of the People's Party: fines and repression for those who denounce this scam. But of course we won't be silenced. We know you don't like it very much that we're talking about AP-9 in plenary. Besides, he has already said on other occasions that we ask him about matters that are not of his competence. I agree, AP-9 is not of its competence, AP-9 is of its incompetence. Actually, AP-9 is an internal matter, it's a matter of Greek politics, and it's also a responsibility of the Greek Government. That's because it's a vital infrastructure for the articulation of the territory and the economic development of our country. But it's just that, in addition, you became a matter of competition or incompetence of the Greek Government because you created, to try to numb or soften the time it was falling, a bilateral follow-up commission at the highest level, to follow up on all decisions and actions related to AP-9. So you've also become responsible, as it were, for all those decisions. You became accomplices and conspirators of the scam. You are accomplices and collaborators of this fraudulent opening of Rande's expansion works carried out on December 30, 2017, which is already another day of infamy, another day of shame, like that infamous December 30, 2016. It's a joke, a contempt, it's a ton of hair that happened that day. Because Rande's bridge has been operating since December 30, 2016. There were no more works there any day; works which at this time have already done that, since a month, the last month, from the beginning of February, had reduced the four central lanes to two. These works are also having serious traffic consequences, not only on the bridge itself, but above all on the road PO-541, which goes from Vilaboa to Cangas, which is causing serious retentions and even danger to road safety in the places of the parishes of Meira and Domaio, in the municipality of Moaña. In addition, those works began without warning, without information to the counties of Morrazo, without time limits for completion. I don't know what it looks like to you, but you should worry about what's going on. I don't know if you did any management, if you sent some email, if you sent some whattsapp to the Ministry to worry about what's going on. But it's serious, because the Town Councils of Morrazo, like the mayor of Moaña, are still waiting for them to be given an explanation and given them deadlines for the completion of the works, and informed them of the development of the works. And all that I've just reported, because it's very serious, is just the tip of the AP-9 scam iceberg, the endless memorial of aggression to Galicia by the central government, the submission and complicity of the People's Party. And I would say more, with the betrayal of the Galician People's Party to Galicia and this Parliament; to this Parliament because in this legislation we have adopted numerous agreements with respect to AP-9, in total eight, between laws, non-law and motion proposals, beginning with the transfer of AP-9, the Counsellor, which is the central issue, the most important issue and the most evident proof of that submission by the Greek People's Party to the Madrid tax. I told you before December 13, 2016 is one of the saddest days, a day of shame, a day of infamy for this Parliament and our country. Because it was the day they voted in this Parliament in favor of the processing of the AP-9 Act and they ran that process at the Bureau of Congress in the State. 15 months have passed and I want to ask you, first of all, what they did to comply with that parliamentary agreement, the parliamentary agreements of that law and that impetus to the processing of that law. What management did they do with the Central Government and what management did you or Mr Feijóo with Congress to facilitate the processing of this law? And I also want to ask you if you share the reasons, which are political reasons, which the Minister of Development expressed to veto, to prevent the processing of the law and to prevent the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia. In the end, he came to say something that explains everything: "Don't get transferred because it's the state one." There were no technical reasons, there were no economic reasons. The question is pure centralism, pure dependence. And because it sends the People's Party and it doesn't transfer itself — that's what you came to say. Besides, they came to say that it was a threat to Spain's unit the transfer of AP-9, which seems to me to be over. Well, look, there have been many more agreements in this Parliament that are pending to comply with. And we're still waiting for them to comply with their own laws, because you also have a law that is pompically called "The Law of Transparency and Good Government," which says, in its Article 19, that every year you have to report on the degree of compliance with the agreements adopted by Parliament that year. And we're waiting for the Galician Government, the Galician Union, to report to us on this matter. And that's why we bring these questions here. We want to know what management they did to comply with these agreements. For example, the 17th of 1st of 2017, for the AP-9 anti-rubbing screen installations in Chapel and Teis. What managements have they done and why, after fifteen months, is not yet started or, of course, made this action? We also want to ask you to tell us what management they did for the urban transformation of AP-9 into the third line between the end of Roundola and the city of Vigo. We want to know what management has done to the government and its council. We want to know what management has done with regard to this Parliament's agreement of 13th of 7th of 7th in relation to the working conditions in the works of the Rande Bridge. What management did you guys do in front of the Ministry, the dealership...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u210	...to guarantee them? They shouldn't have done much because we already know that the works have accelerated so that they could be opened at the end of the year, and that has led to at least two serious accidents in that last third of the year. We also want to know what management has done for the 19th out of 12 agreement on improving quality of life and the impact of infrastructures on Chapel and Teis. And also on that same day's agreement on the abolition of the 95% bonus of the franchisor privilege...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u212	And I finish because we already know what the Popular Party's tactic is: to approve agreements here to violate them, to ignore them, to despise them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u214	Also to sleep out the demands, to hide them, to silence them and to create a fiction of consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u215	You've got a replica later, Mr. Bará. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u216	Yes, I'm just finishing up to tell you that you won't get it for a lot of fines, for a lot of threats, no matter how much fine-tuning you want. They won't succeed, and we will certainly achieve the goal of the AP-9 transfer despite the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u218	Very good morning. Mr Bará, for a moment, for a matter, I'll give you the reason. We're not competent in the question you're asking me, we don't have skills in the management of AP-9. And you're still committed to coming to government to talk about matters that are not within the competence of the Galician Union. You come to recognize something that is true: that we are not competent. They have a surprising urge that we come to respond to things of state competence. But don't get confused, I'm, of course, very happy to come and talk. We have no problem, I have no problem here to talk about issues that are within the jurisdiction of the State. And I insist again on your formula, on the formula of your party to recognize the work of the Conseilería, of the German Government, in which we are competent. So I thank you for this question to recognize the good work, the good management, in matters of our competition. You're talking about the AP-9 expansion works in Rande. On December 30th, of course, the traffic opened up for enlargement. It's six kilometers to add a third lane to Rande Bridge. And Mr Bará, do you know that it's a bridge that has more than 56,000 IMD, nearly 60,000, of daily traffic, 56,000 and 60,000 vehicles a day in four lanes, to which two are added? So today there are six AP-9 races. If the outside lanes were not opened, what you're asking me for is two unique lanes -- you've been trying to figure it out so that you can get an idea, you don't have to be a street engineer to understand it -- two roads only to admit -- I think I'm trying to explain it, technically explain it to understand it, you don't have to be a street engineer -- almost 60,000 vehicles a day. What you're asking for is the absolute collapse of Rande Bridge. I believe that if it is not understood that there are ordinary conservation works, complementary works — which were explained on the same day and which were already announced by the Ministry of Development —... and, of course, if they were not put into service these outer side lanes to circulate traffic, the bridge would collapse. I'm sure that's what you'd like, to break the bridge, and criticize again. Because they criticize for one thing and for the contrary, a tremendous coherence. From a technical point of view, I think I've explained it enough and, therefore, I think it's technically explained, with overwhelming logic, this subject of the collapse that I'm being asked for from Rande Bridge. I think you should know that these are complementary actions. I think you should know that the protocols and the actual decrees of the Ministry of Development dealt with on your day, in 2011, were of the Socialist Party, which supported you in Madrid and supported you here in the Bipartite — that is. You should know that the increase in the rate this year, at the beginning of January, is the IPC, and nothing else. You should know that the increase in the fee in relation to the works has not been implemented at the beginning of this month. I think I should know. Don't keep tricking and sowing doubts, makeup all your intervention. Because the increase in the rate on January 1 this year was the IPC. And, of course, the AP-9 enlargement works that have been done will not be financed from State budgets because it was the Socialist Party, supported by you, who tied those works to be financed from the fees, the Socialist Party that supported you. And now they're tearing their clothes off for that cumulative 1% for 20 years that the Socialist Party tied up in 2011 in Madrid and that you were supporting. You come to rip your clothes off and, of course -- I insist -- it's not a decision today or by any means, it's from this real decree of 2011. They're looking for political revenues now and of course... As for the state's position on AP-9, I don't think it's new. The position of the state is neither new nor new. Because, when the Socialist Party was ruling in Madrid, Minister José Blanco, did he grant the transfer?, did the Ministry of Development grant the transfer when the Socialist Party was ruling supported by you? Of course, this Government, the Council of Galicia, we continue to defend it, and always with the same coherence, always, we do not change our mind. Because we consider the transfer of AP-9 to be a fair claim, because we consider it to be substantiated and because we consider it to be the best for the Greeks, the most beneficial for the Greeks and for the Greeks. And we'll keep asking for it in the appropriate forums and we'll be careful and vigilant, of course, about the quality of the service. We've seen it doing so, and every time we have record or knowledge of some incident, let's get in touch with it, move it and ask for explanations and get the exceptional circumstances fixed. We always ask for it. And so on November 15th, the Ministry also confirmed the opening of informational inquiries for Audasa. So it's an active policy, a vigilant policy, so that the best quality of service is achieved by AP-9. No change of criteria on the part of the German Government, in the policy of the Greek Government, in relation to the AP-9, being always consistent with the transfer and quality of the service. And about the news about AP-9, which is new, Mr Bará, is something you don't want to recognize. What's new is that, for the first time, the Galician Union, the Government of Galicia and, therefore, the Greeks and the Greeks have voice in the management of the AP-9 motorway in that joint commission between the Galician Union and the Ministry of Development, which has already met three times. The novelty is that the Greeks and the Greeks don't have to pay 7 million euros a year on a state fee, a ruinous agreement that you signed in the Bipartite to pay a state fee. That fee, seven million euros a year in budgets, we removed it. This is not incompetence on the part of the Greek Government, it would be incompetence on the part of the Bipartite. He's confused about Unity of Galicia. And we were able to deliver this annual obligation, yes, yes, the budgets of the Galician Union. We also agreed on commitments and progress in the actions with Round it up, and we also removed that commitment, which we reached at the last meeting of the commission, this payout of Rendondela Vigo, and today, by the way... but of course, every time we send an email, or we call, we're talking, we're not sending tweets... But I can assure you that, of course, we are talking insistently. And even today we contact to be interested in the state of the proceedings of the suppression of the Vigo-Redondela toll. Because we think it's fair, because we think this social claim needs to be met so that these suits are free. It is also new, Mr Bará, the commitment of the Government of Spain that the works, all those related to AP-9, are financed by state budgets and not by the increase of the fee, as it was done by previous governments. This is a new one in relation to AP-9. It was Government Zapatero who decided that these AP-9 enlargement works were funded by the fee. So round with the concessionaire and prejudicial to the Greeks and the Greeks. And the truth is, there was another substantial change. The novelty is also in you. You now want to be added to the transfer of AP-9, and the fact is that not so many years ago were opponents to the transfer of AP-9. That's news about you, too. They voted here against the transfer of AP-9; therefore, it is quite different from their stance, the position of their parliamentary group, when they rule and when they are in opposition. When they rule, they rule, pay, and shut up. That's their difference, their absolute incoherence supporting that ruinous convention for Galicia from Rande to Barcala. And, of course, the Galician Union has not changed its mind, this group has not changed its mind. It's a fixed position with the title and the quality of AP-9, where we've achieved results. In this Parliament we have reached important agreements concerning AP-9: in relation to the working conditions of self-employed people, in demands of the parish of Chapela, with the negotiation with the Government of the State of a proposal to transform it into an urban way in Vigo City Hall — which we hope the Vigo Council will do the work it must do and that it will send a technical proposal, and not a sketch, a sketch—, with the demand to the state of legislative amendments to suppress the IBI bonus and, of course, by taking the necessary steps to ensure that these measures — which are not our competences — are put in place. So there is work and a clear, coherent and well-known position, of course, of the Greek Government in relation to AP-9. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u219	Thank you very much, Counselor. On the replica round, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u220	Thank you, President. The truth is, Counselor, you gave me very little answers, I'm very disappointed. Most of the questions he didn't answer. He answered the question of competition, which is really incompetence. Because his explanation really deduced the incompetence of the German Government. You, from the moment you set up this bilateral follow-up commission — which I insist that it was a curtain of smoke to try to soften the sale of criticisms that you have refused to deal with the law adopted unanimously in Parliament — have not yet explained to me here the management that you have done to facilitate processing. What's the matter? Why isn't that law being dealt with? What do you paint, the Welsh PP, Mr. Feijóo, in Madrid, who are unable to tell Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Ana Pastor to allow processing? I don't say approval anymore, but at least processing and debate. I think it's a little thing they should do. Of course, on December 30th, you said that you opened the works of the extension of the Rande Bridge. No, Counselor, the works are not finished, they are not finished. And there's nothing left to do with the completion of complementary and conservation works, as you say, these are works that are included in the contract with the UTE. These are not complementary works, which are now being done are works of the Rande enlargement contract. We're talking about the bridge. I'm not going to tell you about the rest of the miles. Because, of course, here the neighbors of Chapel and Teis don't count for anything. We had to run in a hurry to open the 30th. The ones in Chapela, the ones in the rest, who bother, who bother. That's your recipe. Look, with regard to the increases in the rates, indeed, January 1 has produced the increase in the IPC, but then the others will go, and the others — said the minister, who had to approve them before — are derived from the 2011 and 2013 conventions. That's the reality. At that time, in 2011, BNG opposed that formula for financing the works. BNG was opposed, concentrated there and manifested himself there too. I don't know if there were any fines at that time, but he's concentrated there, he's been opposed and, of course, he hasn't supported the central government on this issue, as he hasn't supported it at that time since the change of the Constitution and other harmful measures were made. The transfer of AP-9 is going to be a battle we're going to win, and since then the BNG will be leading that battle, as it's been all life doing. And look, I recommend that you abandon that argument of saying that BNG opposes the AP-9 transfer, because that's not what anyone believes. What they can say is, what heavy BNG's ones, every day asking for the transfer of AP-9! But to say that BNG opposes, that's not what anyone believes; it's like that BNG is a Spaniard or a Centralist. [[Applause]] No one believes that. Those who objected were you, from the State Government, with reports, with votes in the State Parliament, when the BNG brought the proposal there. They brought technical reasons, political reasons and economic reasons. Now there are economic reasons of weight that are also at stake. And you know what they are? That's at stake the sale of the concession; a succulent business, and you don't want to bother, or, to say better, in Madrid, they don't let you make any decisions that can disturb this speculative sale operation of this big business, this big spore, this big rappy, which is the management of AP-9, as it is now. So they're still the same, what they've been doing all their lives: favoring the interests of the dealership. And I'm not going to remind you here what we've already said a thousand times about the expansion of concession, privatization, all the benefits of those who enjoy it, tolerance with mismanagement, etc. You say you have agreed that all the works that are done from now on and all the decisions will not be caused by the increase in the fees. Well, you just announced, Counselor, a new measure that is going to increase the fee. You've just announced that the abolition of the fee between Rande and Vigo will be by means of an increase in the fee, and we're against it being done this way. Of course, we have supported and demanded for a long time the abolition of that fee, but we do not agree that it should be done by means of a further increase in the rates. Look, I have these Parliament agreements here, and you haven't given me virtually any answers to anything I asked you here. I hope that the second intervention will give us a minimum detailed explanation of what were the managements that have done on all these issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u222	...... yes, finished—of the transfer, of course, of the works to be done in Chapela and in Teis, of the anti-noise screens, of the transformation into the urban way, etc., etc., etc. I look forward to your answers, because in your first intervention, of course, I didn't hear them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u223	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u224	Thank you, President. As you know, the Government does not intervene in the various parliaments on the subject of laws; therefore, I think it more than answered your question. Anyway, I was tempted to come with the same answer, because you have the same arguments as ever, and I tried to come with the same answer as last time, just about AP-9, but, with regard to Parliament and also with regard to you, I don't come with the same answer. It would have served me perfectly because you use exactly the same argument, the same theme, to see if, if you insist and persist, by chance, you shut up your makeup message, somehow. I insist again that I believe that I have answered many questions, especially the collapse they wanted at Rande Bridge. So I think I gave an explanation that you don't have to be technical in order to understand it and that you're sufficiently explained. I'm sure you understood it perfectly. He often liked to talk about complicity, but the complicity is yours with the Socialist Party, when he ruled in Madrid, of course, they don't take offense! If they're true! There's no need to take offense. The Socialist Party ruled in the Union and ruled in Madrid, and it was the Socialist Government which, surprisingly, opted for this serious option to increase the rates and finance works. It was a serious move! That's right! That's right! The Socialist Government in 2011 decided and armoured that these works, in its sixth clause, were paid by the peas, 1% cumulative for twenty years, and paying -- I insist -- 8% of interest made Audasa. 8%! It's just that it comes in the royal decree of the year 2011. Someone's bothering you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Royal decree signed by Pepe Blanco. But he's here, 8%! It's the Audasa compensation, with an annual rate of 8% fixed. [[Lady Infrastructure & Housing Advisor, Vázquez Mourelle, shows a document.]] There it is, in the royal decree. I understand that if you want to break apart now, but that's what we have, a Socialist Party you were supporting, and then they didn't say anything. We want to avoid these things for the future, and that's why we've achieved and lifted that commitment to the Ministry of Development, in that commission, in addition, that we have, which seems to you as a paripé and incompetent, but it's not so, and I can and will give you a story, a battery of arguments. We've managed to make it from the state budgets. Because he qualifies as a peer everything we do. For tremendous parié I prevented them from paying for the new AP-9 performances in pay-off mode! Trimming parié prevents the Greeks from paying 7 million euros annually for the budgets of the Galician Union, a grant of a state-owned highway! Trento paripé prevented it from being paid!. And terrible incompetence! You'll understand, I can't admit it. And also tremendous paripe that we put on the table the suppression of Vigo-Redendela's peax! I'm kicking my ass! And Andalusia, of course, doesn't think it's a teddy bear. Andalucia will know that you are asking for the same treatment and privilege that we are having in Galicia with the Ministry of Development. Therefore, paripés, of course, by the German Government, none, and incompetence, none. The payout of Roundola must have been pariped when you voted here that the payout of Roundola must have been removed. That must have been a paripé. In any case, we, from the German Government, have managed to ensure that these 7 million euros are not paid annually and that they are saved by the Greeks, and of course we have complied with the parliamentary agreements that were adopted in relation to the AP-9 and the issues that are discussed here. We take those matters to the commission on AP-9, and at that first meeting we've already put the measures on the table to alleviate the impact of noise on Round it. Also the urban truce in AP-9 in the city of Vigo. And by the way, the Vigo Town Hall is waiting and we're still waiting for you to do that technical work that you have to do as an act of local traffic and local urbanism, to keep talking about. So we also held meetings just over a month ago in connection with the works of AP-9, as I said, so that they would be in charge of state budgets; of course, not like others, who said they were a razor. In any case, I wonder, yesterday's abstention from AC-57, which is an alternative to the release of the AP-9 toll, to which came the tale on its part? I wonder. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u225	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and four other Members, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union to achieve equality between men and women in the fields of science, technology, research and innovation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u226	Mrs. Burgo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. As you know, February 11th was held for the second consecutive year on Women's and Girls' Day in Science, a commemoration proclaimed by the UN in order to give visibility to all the inequalities that are still being maintained in the field of science, research and innovation, and to affirm, in addition, the needs to boost women's access and participation in all scientific fields. The European Union has indeed been calling and drawing attention to these inequalities for more than 20 years now, but it is still necessary to continue to draw attention. As you also know, the ETAN report, which is the first one that did a very detailed analysis of these inequalities in women and men in science, found this reality in 2001 with characteristics that were practically unchanged 20 years later; it simply changed slightly the increase in women's participation, but in the characteristics there was no change. Basically, the conclusions of this report were represented in a treasure chart. In the first steps of the scientific world, women are mostly, to cross the lines in the middle of the scientific career, and medium and high levels are already beginning to separate and are an absolute majority of men and minorities of women. That's what's known as a vertical segregation. The study of scientists, in 2015, made by the Ministry of Economics, continues to mark this segregation, and gives us, in addition, the quotations they check, mark and test that segregation. At the moment of entry into Spanish and Greek universities, the woman is a majority, well over 50% right now. The best files, by the way, are usually women's. They're also mostly in a large number of scientific areas, not in all of them, but in graduates. And we've found that in many scientific areas, most of them are also women's doctoral theses. That's why they get a bigger number in many areas, too, of pre and post-doctoral aids. So far the situation is good; it is more, rather, because scientists, in this study of scientists in numbers, mark 58% of female presence in the early stages of career — in the first few years —. But how does the situation end when we reach a consolidation of the women's career? With which 25% are women and 75% are men. A lot of women have been lost on the road. There's a lot more data, as I'm sure you know. In the USC only 23% of the research groups are led by women. Women with this situation don't get to positions of responsibility, there are virtually no rectors. Only the CSIC, a state-owned public research body, is headed by a woman, and only two months ago. There were 18 directors before. That is why the number of women who are part of the scientific career is only 39% of the scientific community in the public domain — we speak of the public domain. But here's a very important fact, Counselor: that this 39% data hasn't changed, it hasn't grown, there's been no change in the last ten years. This means that we are at the Spanish level — then we will talk about the Greek — in the Spanish world, totally paralyzed, and this means that we are going to have to assume 30 or 40 years more — it is accounted for — to achieve equality of women and men in science with this data. There is a clear glass ceiling in these activities that must be overcome, but there is also a horizontal segregation — you know — that women suffer. Women focus on scientific areas of humanistic, legal and health sciences — including health, which are already clear to most — but, yes, we don't have women running hospitals, eh! Here's that gender gap, too. But, finally, they're almost majority... I'm talking about that at the Greek level I don't think so. Well, well, there's one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How many men, please? Say the figures, because, of course, if a woman uses them to say that there is no scientific gap, then, of course, we've all arranged! [[Applause]] They will agree, however, that I am sure, also the women of the People's Party in which girls and Thursdays go mainly to areas of humanistic science, legal areas and health; but, on the other hand, there is little presence in experimental and technological studies: in the SUG — in the Greek university system— only 24.5%, and there are headlines such as computer engineering that are only 13% — only. But also, Counsellor, this is what we're going back to, because in 2005 in the experimental areas it was 36.4% women, and we're going down. And, as you know, here's the real future of jobs in the years to come. To cover all these gaps — which, of course, is also ordered by the European Union — in the coalition government of the PSOE and the BNG we launched the Women's and Science Unit in 2007, after unanimous approval of this construction; a Women's and Science Unit that had to be the flag of all these policies and which would lead — and took in the early years — policies to increase the number of women in the scientific world and integrated the gender perspective into the R & D+i processes, in addition to reporting and evaluation. Here was this unit of genre, and they were also departments of equality, but also of innovation, but also of R & D research and management. Do you know — because it's not up to you; I don't know if you know — that this unit is completely paralyzed? Do you know that the news on the website is from 2009? 2009, Counselor! [[Mrs. Burgo López shows one page.]] This is frozen in time. But do you also know that your board, the Education Council, in addition to equality, sends there a link that refers to this, where the latest news is from 2009? This truth is already a very graphic element of what is going on with the policies of women and science in this government presided over by Mr. Feijóo: that nothing is being done at all, when it was the vital core. This unit made a 2008-2012 Women's and Science Program. It ended in 2012; it was not evaluated. Do you know when you did, your government, the second? In 2016, it was introduced in December 2016; therefore in 2017; it took more than four years to make a new one. But I hope you also know — I don't have enough time — that in the Galaga Innovation Agency — which depends on you — that presents twelve objectives on your website, there is not one on the perspective of gender, there is no objective to eliminate imbalances and nothing to increase the presence of women in the field of innovation; there is more, there is not even the word woman, we are not present. Of course, if we're not present, little can be done. But, Counselor, at RIS3, in the Strategy of Smart Specialization, do you know how many times the word fairness is called? Sky! How much for equality? Sky! How much for a woman? One!, to say that Europe forces women to have presence, and point. There is no strategic objective, no end, no project, no action to increase the number of women's presence in innovation, both in the private sector and in the public domain. Because we should also talk — and much, Counsellor — about the private sector, where the conditions are even worse than those in the public domain. And I'm aware, but there'll be something to do. The same thing we can say about Amtega. I looked at the memories of Amtega's activity and, indeed, in 2016 and at a quick glance, I saw nothing, absolutely nothing of equality. You know — and finish, Counselor — that if there are no cross-cutting policies, if they are not cited, if there are no projects around the woman, if they are not explicit in the plans and institutions that have R & D, all R & D programs, they do not exist, because you know, Counselor, perfectly that what is not stated, what is not written, does not exist. And that, sincerely, I believe, Mr. Counselor, that you have to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Burgo, I appreciate that, indeed, a day like today, in a plenary day before the International Women's Day, we can address what is the situation of women's participation in the scientific field; a very important issue not only from the quantitative point of view but also from the qualitative point of view of the link with science and in which, therefore, in some ways, a common objective in which equality becomes a priority for all, for the political groups, for the society to which we represent, and logically also for this government; a government that is working day by day so that the genre is not a conditioner and also for women to have a job opportunity that is free, that is fair and that is worthy. I think that's where we need to develop. You actually transfer different data published in statistics that reflect a reality, but logically, there is a reality that is much broader. If we refer to the data, we have to see that today the affiliation of women is greater than in 2009, that even the weight of women's affiliation in Galicia is the greatest of all autonomous communities and that, ultimately, we have advanced over the last few years in the labour integration of women, although in no case can we conform, and therefore we have to address a reality for further progress in that work integration and so that we can promote a line of action so that equality between men and women is complete. There — as I said — Galician Union has been working for many years — not this Galician Union, more than twenty-five years, promoting gender equality and employment within women, and what I can transfer to it are done. Indeed, this government has reinforced positive discrimination in active employment policies, facilitating the integration of women into Galicia. And this government, also through the Women's Employment programme, is giving a new boost to various proposals in the iodine of the labour market in general, and in the scientific field in particular, facilitating the incorporation of the labour market, the professional development of women, equality in the company and also female entrepreneurship. Here are many initiatives that are promoting the integration of women into science and the labour market as a whole, for example, through the reconciliation by motherhood or paternity of autonomous people, which, in 2017, we have improved, by expanding in 16 weeks the 100% bonus of the social security quota of the hired person and, therefore, to those women who are also engaged in scientific education from an autonomous point of view. We are supporting integrated employment programmes, and there are integrated programmes specifically aimed at women. We are with a new edition of the Executive Programme, to boost the leadership skills among the Greek professionals, as we are also promoting equality, reconciliation and social and business responsibility in small and medium-sized enterprises so that, in fact, there is also an important step in promoting women's work integration. A study is being prepared, as you know, within the Committee on Equality of the Galego Labour Relations Council to address measures to allow for equal pay. And finally, we are developing a new guide to good practices of equality in collective bargaining that allows us to establish recommendations that range from access to employment to professional promotion. In short, all of these are concrete measures, measures that are promoting the integration of women into work and hence promoting equality between women and men within the labour market. We understand that these are useful measures. You were moving me into your intervention different aspects that I think it's important to nuance. It would refer to the Galician Innovation Agency and also refer to aspects of visibility within the Galician Union website. It is true that there may be some element that is not sufficiently conducive to visibility, that will have to be corrected, not hidden from it, but, as you well know, the parliamentary headquarters are also bringing concrete initiatives that are being shaped by concrete actions from the point of view of scientific development, and I mean concretely — as you were moving in your intervention — to the Galega Innovation Agency, which has its own measures to promote women's participation. As you know, we have criteria for positive discrimination within the Galician Innovation Agency, both in the call for assistance to the predoctoral and postdoctoral stage, as well as in specific calls within the Peme Connecta, the Industry 4.0 program, and within the Principle program, which is directed at hiring professionals to carry out R+D+i activities; therefore, activities related to research and science. And there's also this positive discrimination in all the programs that develop the Galician Innovation Agency. We think it's an important aspect. You also referred to the German Women's and Science Programme, which we are actually giving you continuity. So we are moving forward in that commitment of the Galician Union to promote real equality in the fields of science, technology and innovation, with a 2020 horizon, which is what marks the current program, and where talent management is undoubtedly one of the most important elements, eliminating gender differences and therefore so that excellence is not marked by any kind of vertical segmentation, but rather, on the contrary, allowing there to be no difference. I believe that we must also put data in value that is a consequence of the actions that have been taking place by the Galician Union. In fact, Galicia is among the communities that have already achieved this gender balance in the entire staff in R & D activities, with a proportion of women exceeding the national average. And he also knows that 60 percent of the people who work in R & D in Public Administration are women, who are 9 points more than the average of Spain. Therefore, Galicia is having a positive attitude — it must be improved, and in that sense I think that is where we have to focus the debate — from the point of view of the results. Even within the data that you transferred from women's participation to different sectors, from a sectoral point of view, Galicia also has a better behavior than the average of Spain, and so we're showing that Galicia actually has a clear objective to improve women's participation in science as well. And since I was talking about the Galician Innovation Agency, I have to refer to the Galician Innovation 2020 Plan, which I had the opportunity to introduce recently. In this plan it is clearly marked and the emphasis is placed on gender equality and on the promotion of women as a transversal principle. This is collected in the Galicia New 2020 Plan. So we're going to continue all the initiatives and we're going to promote that gender equality in innovation, in particular, and also in R & D, in a concrete way. Finally, I believe that this government is favouring and promoting equality between men and women in the labour market, but also in particular in the field of R & D+i and, therefore, in the scientific field, in the technological field, in the field of science and innovation. We agree that all these measures must have a cross-sectional character; therefore, this objective must be framed in all policies of the Galician Union. I referred to the Economic, Employment and Industry Council this morning, but logically the Government's vision is transversal and therefore the other departments are also working in that direction. We have to add new proposals to improve what Galicia has improved in recent years, but I honestly believe that there is planning, that there are concrete measures and that there are realities that are marking us that we are going in the right direction and that we must therefore continue to push through the various initiatives new measures that enable us to work on this gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u230	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, you basically talked about your employment department and there's greater integration of women. I don't doubt the intentions of going there at all, but I want to give you a global data, as you spoke globally, firstly, not of R+D; on the whole, you've now spoken of R+D. Look, in Galicia there are 30,000 men in part-time, and there are 110,000 women in part-time. That means there's a lot more to do and integrate, and that those policies that you're talking about do not, of course, have any good results. But if we talk about employment, which tells you that there's a majority of women in the administration, within the administration, in the R & D programs, I tell you yes, it's true, but you have to know -- so I talked about vertical segregation -- how many women there are at the highest levels of work. Or are they all — because they are, and so reflect all surveys of both the IGE and the INE — at the lowest and least qualified places? That's what I wanted to convey to you, Counselor, that there is a gap in a very specific field, which is a fundamental field of working in it, because these are areas where the future really is, and if we want to have a competitive knowledge society, we can't remove most of your qualified staff, which are women. And I say most of them because they're the ones that're forming. You're not breaking that glass roof. But I'm telling you more, Counselor, the figures indicate the following. The crisis has made it especially worse in qualified female employment, female employment in research, innovation and technology. And I'm telling you why: because the INE figures indicate that they've gone down into the research women's group at the Greek universities; women have dropped 16% in the last seven years, 16%!, five times more than they did in Spain — five times more, Counselor!, data from the INE—. We have a gap with respect also very high Spain. But, in addition, in the Public Service and in the SUG, all staff came down by 17% — data from the IGE, I can also give them disaggregated and in absolute numbers, from 2010-2016, which I have here. Of the 17% that have fallen most are women, because you know that in crisis situations women are the most punished. You didn't tell me anything about the whole plan and the women's and science programs. Because it's true, you have to be transversal, you're not responsible, but if your department of Innovation and Employment was really committed to women's and science programs, you could tell me something, at least what you do, something you didn't tell me about the Women's and Science Program, because that program, which had to be transversal, which had to be what would unify all the policies of the various departments of Galician Union, is not improving. And I say more also, Counselor: you know that you have to have positive policies to push women into the R & D work world, but also to stay, and that means change, analyze, and then correct all the evaluation mechanisms that are harming women. And you know that they're harming women primarily by situations of motherhood, family care and roles that are still considered female. Maternity is statistically proven not to harm men scientists, but it's actually hurting women scientists. And those are elements that need to be transformed. Do you have any policies around that situation? No, no, no, no. And I'm also telling you something else -- and I'm done, because I'm running out of time. You say there's a positive impulse and measures to positively boost the integration of women, and I imagine you refer to the whole process of aid to competitive research units, emerging groups... you didn't say, I'll tell you. What does that mean? In giving one more point to the consolidated research units that are led by women. Before, in the former Government, there was 1 point over 100 — that men do not revolutionize, that it is not a positive discrimination in favour of women — but there was first a help and a higher score for the units, for the research groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u233	...—end—which had a relatively significant proportion of women. That's more important right now than the female leader of a research group. It's more important to push, to help groups that, relatively, by relative weight, have a lot of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u235	...or an important number of women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u237	Those are specific policies that must be put into practice, Counsellor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u238	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. Close this interrogation, Mr. Economics and Employment Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Burgo, indeed, there are different areas that have touched on your intervention which I will try to contrast. One reference was made in some interventions to the presence of women in areas of responsibility. I can tell you that in the course of innovation and employment, government officials are women and, therefore, with a clear sensitivity to all aspects related to gender equality and equal opportunities for men and women, particularly in the context of innovation. You were actually talking to me about the percentage of staff investigators when in their career they come to the professor or professor of research, which are important aspects. I think it's important to recognize that the percentage is still insufficient because we're at 25%, but we have to admit that we're four points above the Spanish average, and that, therefore, with the presence of qualified female researchers in the field of research and also university professors, we're going beyond the average of Spain. So somehow, Galicia is giving those answers. You were talking to me about the Galaga Innovation Agency and the measures that are actually being put in place to promote women's professional career. I think it's good to remember in this House that all the researchers and researchers from Greece who participate in both post-doctoral and pre-doctoral programs have, whether mothers or parents, well-increased their term of contract according to their low term, which therefore has a clear measure of sensitivity so that they can meet a reality that can happen to both the mother and the father and which, therefore, there is a clear positive discrimination to favour that equality. So there are concrete measures, and I believe that we must put the innovation data on the table and the higher qualification of our companies. Today in Galicia there are more women working in R & D activities in the business sector. That's a reality that contrasts, precisely, with which Spain has decreased since 2009. Today in Galicia more than 60% of the technical and professional occupations of scientific content are also women, and there are also four points above the national average. Today in Galicia we have 12,300 women in management and management positions, which are 2,600 more than five years ago. That's a reality in Galicia, too. And today in Galicia 28 percent of companies have 40% of women in their board of directors, which is two points more than the average state. Therefore, Galicia thinks it's giving answers in the direction we all want. You were also talking to me about the German Women's and Science Program, a program that took you three years to pass, remember? Because they proposed it in 2005 and approved it in 2008. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, the different measures that were envisaged there, such as the Women's and Science Unit, are being developed, which we continue to carry on. We are also doing programs through Galician — you know — working with the technópole classes and promoting scientific and innovative vocations among students and, in particular, among women. And the Galician Innovation Agency actually has programs such as the Opportunius program, the Start program or the Joint Innovation Units, which are also promoting R & D+i among our researchers, introducing elements of discrimination. All this is part of the current German Women's and Science Program 2016-2020, where there is a clear commitment to involve the Greek System of Science and Technology, where we are under the coordination of the Women's and Science Unit and where we are working both the Council of Education and Economics, as well as the General Secretariat of Equality and the Amtega itself. And, as the President moved to them this morning, we are prepared to present this plan of equality for the General Administration of the Autonomous Community, which we believe also has to give a concrete answer, through the different working groups, to responses in the field of research, technology and science. So I think we're on our way to develop that potential. We must participate in all political groups and, of course, the Government, taking the initiative so that, in fact, this equality of women in Galicia in the field of science, technology and innovation is a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u240	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda development modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u241	I have to report a change in the agenda. It was welcomed, by a request from the Government, the fifth question, which is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. We suspended the full till 4:00 p.m., 16 hours. No, 16 o'clock. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's all programmed already. Sixteen! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's two and twenty, please! We haven't made so much energy consumption here today, I say! You sit all morning! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u242	We resumed the session. Interpellation by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, of the G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Italian Government in the field of gender
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u243	Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u244	Thank you, President. Before speaking of the question itself, I think it is important to make a brief reflection on what happened this morning at the plenary, which I would say, in short, that it was quite regrettable. That's why I think when we talk about equality, we have to speak clearly. I believe that rather than appealing in an abstract way to the consensus that we should appeal to all parliamentary groups is to give a debate, as I said clearly and sincerely, if not, we can hardly move forward. In fact, I think if anything is having this feminist strike and it is putting at the heart of the debate and the political agenda all these debates that used to be in much smaller spaces is that it is making clear what everyone thinks, where it is, and on which side each one is. And unfortunately, I have to say that because of many appeals to consensus, in this House we are not all on the same side. And I make these statements after hearing the statements made over these days, these weeks, but especially after hearing the statements today. Because if they made some claims that I think they're very serious, I suppose some for a lapse. Sometimes the subconscious produces these bad pasts. Mrs Prado said that the women of En Marea were talking about equality, about minor issues, that we could see that we could only talk about minor issues. Yes, he said that, and, as it is in the Journal of Sessions, I will not enter this debate with you. It seems to us, of course, that we're not going to have anything to do with people who think equality is a minor matter. For us it is a matter that must be at the centre of the political agenda all year round, 365 of the year, and, of course, at this time, it is particularly symbolic to do these equality initiatives, but these initiatives are present in our parliamentary group all year round. As I said, it is not only the comments that are being heard in relation to the feminist strike that make us see that we do not agree on many issues, is that it has recently become very clear too, for example — and even today we were talking about it — to the Covenant of the State adopted at the Congress of Deputies, which is a pact in which literature is very well — and there are some issues in which we have, of course, agreed on there, but the problem is that of always, there is no budget allocation. That is why we deny Congress and also refuse in this Parliament to continue to feed the false mirror of equality and to say that everything that can be done is absolutely done, because it is a lie. If you're not doing everything you should do, you can do a lot more. So we repeat again that the appeal to non-confrontation seems very cynical, after hearing this whole series of insults, this whole series of arguments that were increasingly aggressive by leaders of the People's Party. Of course there is conflict because of course we do not defend the same interests. And, in fact, I'm going to talk briefly also about some of the arguments that have been heard over these days, that are totally false and to those that I think it's important to answer as well. The first is that this strike is part of zero and it's a strike to wear out the People's Party. This is totally false. It's an international strike, you've been told. Obviously, the feminist movement or Parliament's political organizations do not have the ability to pull the entire international feminist movement into a strike to disturb the People's Party. It's a strike, in addition, which has a background outside, as it said — in Latin America this process has begun — that it also has a history of women's mobilizations, as on November 7, as well as all mobilizations for the defense of the right to abortion, and that they are never the property of any political organization or are thanks to any political organization. And this is very clear. The only ones who defend equality and feminist movement are women. So they don't use this argument to desecrate the movement itself, which is questioning the false mirrorism of inequality. I think they're putting so much effort into delegating this strike and this movement because they know we're in a historic moment. On Sunday we saw him in Vigo, and tomorrow I'm sure we're going to see a lot of people on the street, that it's going to be a steady success, and I think he's gonna say hello, celebrate this movement and not criticize it. But, in fact, we understand that they do not share it because this strike has questioned many of the public policies that are being carried out in recent years by the governments of the People's Party, and it has a power this strike, which is that it can make all discrimination visible in all areas. They also lied saying that this strike was a masquerading strike and an insolidary strike. The feminist movement has known how to reinvent what is the very idea of strike and there are many options to make this strike tomorrow. It calls for care to be socialized, and there will be community care points for women who are caregivers. And women who can't stop also have other ways of showing solidarity. So what is deeply machist is to make those totally paternalist speeches to the women who decide to stop tomorrow. And now, by focusing a little more on one of the forms of discrimination that also focuses this interpellation and that we think it's very normalized is to talk about sexual assaults and all sexual violence. I understand that this is a specific issue, but I also wanted to set the general framework that when we talk about all kinds of sexual assaults, we can't turn them off from the general framework of macho violence. There are some data -- I'm not going to say a lot, they're already in the interpellation reflected, and they know us all -- that we're no longer exposed to the situation of gravity. Every year half a hundred women are raped in Galicia, almost one per week -- as we know, because there are probably many more that we don't yet know -- and we also know that rapes are the most growing crime in Galicia. As I said, I'm not going to focus on the data, because these are statistics that can be known to all of us, but what is reflected behind these statistics is the situation that many women of fear, insecurity and constant harassment experience. This data we believe is part of the culture of rape that is established in our country, and this is also very related to sexuality and how it is understood that women and men have a different sexuality. The woman appears as a desired object and never as a desired subject. And that's very much about education, so we don't understand how they voted against an initiative that we put forward in the field of education and equality, because to fight sexual aggression, a fundamental part of it is to start with school, to teach children and children what sexuality means, and that there is no difference and discrimination between men and women. Because the reality is that, unfortunately, many women in this country are not even able to say that they have suffered aggression and, in fact, they can read stories of many of them how the feeling after sexual assault is guilt; primary guilt; secondary, often, because many women, after taking the step of reporting, do not even dare to visualize it and tell it and have to endure such questions as, what clothes were you wearing? why would you be alone at night? Even when we see that there are assaults on women that go together, the question is, why were they alone at night? No, I'm not going alone, I'm going with three, four or five friends. These questions would never be told to a man, and this is obviously not the fruit of chance or genetics, but of a cultural model that is being reproduced with the models of education. So we're totally against, for example, making sex segregations, because we also understand that you have a direct relationship about how children and girls understand that they can't be together normally. We understand that administrations aren't doing enough, in the first case, because they're not doing the surveys and the statistics we need to know, let's say, the situation we find ourselves in. There are many women's movements, such as #MeToo—I too—, also the #PrimAcho, which was in Galicia, which are actually the ones that are visualizing what magnitude of the problem is behind all these punctual cases. Administrations don't have this data accounted for, but they have to be the women themselves, independently organized, those who make voices, those who report different dramatic situations that we only suffer from being women. We also denounce institutional violence, and we must remember a campaign — which, fortunately, was withdrawn — where it seemed that women who consumed alcohol were at risk of being raped. This question remains a reflection of the interiorization that has some administrations the culture of rape. This is a totally unacceptable, shameful poster that unfortunately occurred last year. As I said, it's very difficult to quantify fear, but we have to, we have to put this data on all these women who are afraid to walk alone in the street. We also need to know how many women are not reporting, and especially why they don't. So numerical statistics of data, abstract numbers, don't come up, but we have to do a qualitative analysis, because often these types of aggressions continue to live alone. And I think this strike is also enough to visualize these issues. What we thought happened because we had certain characteristics that only occurred because of being women and the structural reality that surrounds us. Let's ask him the questions. I hope the speech is not self-comprehensive. We think we're not going the right way, that we have to do self-criticism and that we have to change the measures we're putting in place. I'm going to finish. I'm just going back to the feminist strike because I think it's going to be a historic fact, and that we have to continue to see everything we can from here in the morning and we mobilize ourselves, because we know that, unfortunately, rights are not given or given in this Parliament, rights are conquered outside. And I end with a few words that have been said a long time ago but are still very vigilant and that I think we should all be guided and also all in our political action, which is that we don't want any more false separation between the private and the public and that the staff of course is political. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Quinteiro, I believe that the first one, since this question or this question is focused — although you have spoken other things, and I will refer to that — on sexual assaults mainly, I do not believe that there is greater sexual aggression than gender violence, especially when it results in death. So I think I'll start by remembering Jennifer, Pilar and Adela, who are the three women who died victims of gender-based violence this year in Spain, and wishing there was none more. I think it's always appropriate, and especially, of course, on behalf of the Galician Union, I do it and we will always do it. From there I want to tell you, Mrs. Quinteiro, that I was bringing, the truth, answers, as is my obligation, to the questions you were asking in your inquiry, but I could not help but keep some manifestation that you said at first. He said I came here to speak clearly of equality. Okay, clearly, whenever you have to accept things like what you said, the false mirror of equality: where?, always?, possibly? On the right side of the reflex are you and on the dark side are always us. That's his vision of how the situation is. And I was told that I expected my answers, the answers of the Greek Government, not to be self-comprehensive. Me, what do you want me to say? The speech of self-comprehensiveness concerning the clearness that you have, the good that you are doing in the matter of equality, of actions for the sake of equality and of the evil that we are doing, that is, it's a speech of self-comprehensiveness, it's wrong for you, because you think everything does it right and you think we all do it wrong. And look, I'm going to tell you one thing: we're all not doing it right, of course, that we have to keep improving, but now I'm also telling you that your vision of good and bad, where you're always good and we're always bad that's what will never help you to achieve true equality, because this is something that matters and affects everyone, Mrs Quinteiro. Ladies and gentlemen of In Marea, really, I'm going to tell you that we agree on a lot of things, at least in the diagnosis of the situation and in standing against a lot of things that happen and shouldn't happen. I'm sure you don't like it, and they're sorry to say that we're in a lot of things, that we don't like the same things that you don't like. Of course, from that point on, I'm going to say: I think we all have a lot to do to make things better, and of course I can't admit that everything goes wrong since the Government of Galicia — not since the previous governments — or that their vision is the right one and that everything is good and that it therefore has to continue. There are many women who continue to suffer discrimination, who continue to suffer harassment, who continue to suffer violence on account of their gender simply. In addition, this extends to all areas of society and therefore we all have to make an effort to reverse this situation, totally in agreement. This is a task that we all have to do. Now, what I cannot admit to you — and above all, I can't admit to you because this way we will never make progress — is that you say that there is no advanced path, that everything has been backwards in these years, that we are doing things exactly so that there is less equality, that you, again telling them, everything does well, and that everything has been worse in decisions that depend on us, and even if it implies — because I think it implies it in your question clearly — that the increase in crimes is related to the policies that the People's Party makes and that, of course, if we made other policies, the crimes against women's sexual freedom would not increase. The culprits in the end are us. That, of course, we're not going to admit it, above all, because, first, it's an absolute injustice; second, it doesn't lead to any part; and third, it won't contribute to any solution. Mrs. Quinteiro, we're talking about a very serious problem. We have to fix it all. There are no good or bad people here, there are no militias in one party or militia in another, people with absolute truths and others with absolute errors. There aren't any. And as long as we don't admit it, it'll be very hard to start getting better. You quote here specific cases that are shocking, even talking about statistical figures. He said in his speech that he didn't want to talk about figures. But I think we need to talk about numbers to find out what situation we're in. One single sexual assault, one single crime against women's sexual freedom, is — I'm sure we agree with this, too, and I suppose that won't bother you — absolutely unacceptable. But we're going to talk about the data. It is also true that, when he recorded the interpellation — and fortunately we went down — we were in Galicia above average. We're under here right now. Does that mean we can be quiet now? Not at all. It means that at least every time you see a picture, you take a fixed picture, you have to take the data. Now we're better than the month of November. Well, that encourages us to keep moving forward so that statistics get better and better. At the national level we are at 7.8% — almost 8% — and in Galicia at 5.8%. When you asked the question, and I recognize it this way, in Galicia -- that data is changing and that's why this is always unfinished -- we were worse than on the national average. In 2017 there were 459 crimes that were reported in Galicia this kind of crime. They're too many, no doubt. It's also true that here we have to take something with a perspective: that there are more complaints doesn't mean that there are more crimes. Listen, I want to think that, above all, this means that women see each other with strength, with actions, with courage and with sufficient support to make these allegations. I think this is what we have to do. I wish I'd reported a lot more. This is the way, and this is the way. This is clearly seen in gender-based violence statistics, but I think it's seen in any kind of sexual assault on women. This ultimately means that awareness works and that victims are encouraged to report. And in this sense, we're going the right way. I hope — and I say this here — that these allegations — that you also agree — continue to increase until a case remains. That would be the goal that we all had to mark, that there was not one case left without reporting and therefore one guilty without punishing. I'll give you these figures because a problem that's enormous in magnitude would already be with one victim alone. We'll know exactly what we're talking about to know what problem we're dealing with. And from there on, agree that neither good nor bad, but all united. Everyone will have their vision, but I'll tell you again — because this is fundamental and it's not the first time we've talked about it from this stage — that in this respect no one has absolute certainty or no one is doing it absolutely well or, of course, absolutely bad. Here in Galicia we have to say that there are policies that place us at the vanguard of the state. And I think that's where we have to go. So you have to get a lot more involved in everything that refers to the formation of youth to avoid problems that are then much more difficult to correct. Avoid repeating roles and stereotypes that are being repeated, unfortunately, much more frequently than we would like. We need to raise the awareness of society much more. And that's why campaigns are important and successful in campaigns and in what they communicate. We must continue with support and advice, that women feel supported and feel that, when they take that step of denouncing, they will have the support of the whole world; of the administration the first, but of the whole world. And there doesn't have to be any party to tell them, "You won't talk to these people who have no idea and they'll make you wrong, come talk to us, we know all the keys." Because that again says it's not true at all, and from nowhere. We must continue to promote female presence, of course! Of course, there's a deficit, there's no more to see the business and administration executives. Fortunately, in the Galician Union we have statistics that, compared to other administrations and compared to many companies, are more reassuring. But we must continue to promote female presence in decision-making centers and there are more and more women who, simply because of their worth, are where they have to be. We're not going into quota politics, because, of course, the German Government is not going into quota politics at all. Of course, we must also talk about conciliation and co-responsibility. The task of caring for children is not a task neither of men nor of women; of course, it is not a task of women anymore, it is a task of those responsible for having children. So, let's keep going. And I'm telling you because, in the end, I think a more egalitarian society, without any doubt, contributes to minimizing situations like the ones you describe in your interpellation and how I'm talking about. Avoid them completely will be impossible, but of course, if you minimize them. So -- I've got a second replica yet -- I've been able to tell you about the questions of his interpellation. Tell me if we're going to rectify it. Hey, look, rectifier, no. Because we don't think we're going the wrong way, honestly. We think a lot of things have to be corrected, of course. And that's why we want to receive contributions. Now, we are not going to admit to you — because I truly believe that it is not true — that we are going in the absolutely wrong direction and, in no case — the bad thing is that you have come to understand — that you are going in the right direction, that you are on the side of the mirror where to be and that we are on the dark side. That's not the case, and that vision does not absolutely contribute to solving any problems and, of course, it does not contribute to equality at all. Let us punish the assaults on women, without any doubt, Mrs. Quinteiro, without any doubt. Let's not forget that sexual violence, sexual abuse, sexual harassment, are forms of gender-based violence. That is already clear, at last, and it was already envisaged in the Greek law of 2007, of the Bipartite — I want to say so without any problem — by the way. It was already, fortunately, and now it is also reflected in the State Covenant against Gender Violence, which, in its very conformity, had to see the consensus that had been reached in this Parliament. So I finish my first intervention by calling that consensus again. Mrs. Quinteiro, how she goes back up this rostrum, I tell her frankly, saying that... I'm not celebrating you, I'm trying to solve a problem. Mrs. Vilan, you as you all see it — and this in the end is the same, because in this they are all the same, there is equality between you -- understanding that you have absolute truth and we have no idea... we work humbly, and you are wrong in a lot of things. The day they recognize him, it's better for us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u247	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Quinteiro's replica roll.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u248	Thank you, President. We never talk about absolute truth. In fact, I'm surprised at your intervention, because we speak very little about the political measures that we have put forward in this case since the opposition, only about the measures that we have in education. We are simply acknowledging the effort of those who are marking the way, of the feminist movement and of the women of this country, of the feminist women of this country. But it's not a group of opposition. I repeat again that we do not believe, moreover, that no political organization has the ability to do all this. Who are doing it is the women who are out there. What happens is it's you who don't have a minimum of self-criticism, they don't understand or want to listen to all those women who, for example, went out on Sunday. It's just that you don't tell them either in Marea or the Bloc or the Socialist Party, tell them all the women who mobilized this Sunday, tell them all the women who are going to stop tomorrow. They're the ones they don't want to listen to. That's why I also find it very significant to say that I talked about things that have nothing to do with them, because I really reflect that they honestly do not understand the link between inequalities. You can't make that mechanical separation. The feminist strike, in fact, is completely linked to this interpellation, because the feminist strike also denounces the sexual assaults that women suffer, the feminist strike also denounces the structural cuts behind those inequalities, which then allow men to create themselves with the ability to rape women without, in addition, virtually nothing happens. Because the problem is also that, after sexual assaults, the ones that we are usually guilty of are we, who, in addition to suffering sexual assault, often have to go through a series of totally unnecessary questions. And this is also happening in Galicia. And of course we have to know the data in quantitative terms — as I said in my first intervention — but it's equally important to know the data qualitatively. We have to start by asking ourselves what happens, what women feel after sexual assaults, what are the reasons women decide to report, what experience or experience they have after reporting, why they don't report many women, why they're afraid to go out the street and how these experiences are that they suffer. In fact, it seems to me that we should learn. I'm the first one I recognize, for example, that I personally learned a lot from external experiences; for example from the Map of Fear in Galicia that a girl — which I suppose they will know — took forward by a class work that later continued in a much wider project, the Map of Fear in Galicia, with specific stories of women who help us to visualize what is behind this data. In fact, when we formulate the interpellation and also now, of course, we can't make a simplistic reading of the data, nor do we intend to do it, either when they come up or when they go down, of course. It's just, it's true that the data can show us that we're in a very problematic situation. And, as I said, of course I agree with you that, while there is only one woman victim of some kind of sexual assault, we will have to put all our efforts so that this doesn't happen again. So when I talk about confrontation, it's not about a partisan issue. In fact, I'd love to be able to come to a great pact. I think we tried in this House, and I thought it was a good predisposition. I myself was in that presentation to work on the Swedish State Pact to take the Senate. The problem is that we reached agreements, we reached many agreements in writing. What was the only thing we didn't agree on? In the budget allocation. And we, of course, are not going to endorse, as I said, propaganda policies. Because for us a role that puts things that we agree with 100 percent, such as the State Pact, if there's no budget allocation, it's no use at all. The budget allocation of the State Covenant is ridiculous. And we expect this House to work for a pact against the German masculine violence. We'll be there to work. Of course they'll count on our ideas and contributions. Yes, if there's no budget allocation, obviously they won't have us there to give us a headline that Galicia has a Greek pact against male violence, because what we want is that pact actually has some real application. If you don't have budget allocation, we see how the law remains, that 2007 is a law that is far more advanced than the organic law of the state. And then we see the difficulties we have for law enforcement. That's the first question we should ask ourselves, because we have a very advanced law -- we agreed that there are things to improve, but it's a law that I put forward -- but what's going to fail so that that law later doesn't have the development that I should have, nor does it have the fulfillment? Then they have interventions as well as very contradictory, and I have to tell you. Some come this way, in a very kind tone, and I thank them, because the truth is rather pleasant to discuss in this tone of voice. But even today, in the morning, the opposition received a lot of insults. So, of course, it means that we are the only ones who seek constant confrontation, when today it was used in a demagogic way, when the president himself denied the first group of opposition to speech on a subject like equality, because I sincerely believe that all these allegations are a little out of place after the full that we have been living today. Then, I would like, if I could in his second intervention, to talk a little more about the concrete measures that have been taken since they govern, beyond the data. And as I said, obviously we think we're going in different directions, because the facts show that we're not the same. Of course there are issues we agreed on. We're not saying that there are people here who rejoice at the inequalities between men and women. But we say that we are in different matters, because, for example, in a question like abortion, which is a question that also questions us as women, which is a right over our own body, there are many people in the People's Party who deny that women have the capacity to decide. There are also a lot of people in the People's Party who treat us as if we were little children, with a very paternalistic attitude -- in many interventions, I say it's not in this, but it's like a general tone. In fact, today we were talking about the women out there mobilising as if they were used by certain political organizations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u250	I'm gonna finish it, president. As if certain political organizations had the ability to manipulate women. What are women? Women are mobilizing because they have enough reasons to mobilize themselves, because inequalities are unbearable in our lives, in all the spaces of our lives. So it's not like no political organization is manipulating women to harm the People's Party. The women are tired and, obviously, that's why we're going out tomorrow. And it's going to be a very massive feminist strike.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Closing time, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Quinteiro, listen, it's like we have to talk about these issues, like we have to talk about in Parliament, and how I want to talk about it and, of course, honestly, how I think all my colleagues and colleagues are talking about it. And today — we are not going to go into the comparisons, where I think you would lose very clearly, so we will try to speak objectively — the president — because he mentioned to the president, did not deny his spokesman a word. The president was here today to answer questions about equality. Of course, if your spokesperson talks about anything less than equality, logically, and if you haven't felt challenged, it's because you haven't asked anything about equality. That's just why I didn't answer. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, I appreciate your clarifications -- so I understand it -- about your recognition that neither on this side nor anywhere else, in the center nor anywhere else, have or have the absolute truth about this. What happens is that you talked about contradictions and then contradict yourself again. He says the people at the PP treat them paternalistically. I could tell you how many people in this bench feel treated by people from that bench, or how I feel treated sometimes. So, I think in treatment matters, you can't understand in any case... it's always the same! You're always the right ones and we're the wrong ones. On this subject, especially, they feel empowered, and here no one is empowered or empowered to speak of equality. I'm going back to my first intervention. Of course, if you tell me that we're not going to listen to the women who are going to manifest tomorrow, obviously you're contradicting everything you tell me that they're not right on one side or another. Of course we're going to listen to them, of course! We hear any demonstration that develops in a legitimate and democratic way. And tomorrow morning I'm sure it will be. We can share or not share the call, we can share or not share some of the reasons, but, of course, we will listen with all respect and with all the attention what comes tomorrow and all the consequences of that demonstration, there is no doubt. So, if you have them, it's not going to be impossible to move on in this matter. We're very interested in moving forward. They asked me — I have little time — for concrete political measures. Look, the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities between Women and Men 2017-2020. You were talking about that the State Pact had no budgetary measures. Look, let's talk about what we're doing here. And I believe that, in the State Covenant, the position here of consensus was fundamental. Galicia gave an example. So we should not lose that old man when sending messages to the state so that according to a policy that will affect us as well. But speaking of what we've done here, almost 400 million euros. The General Secretariat of Equality has had more budget this year than ever since 2009, with all the difficulties that this budgetary period has been. It's 13.8 million euros. Since 2014, we have marked ourselves as a goal to include the gender perspective in the budgets of the Autonomous Community. All budgets have to have a gender perspective and have to write down their justification that that gender perspective is being fulfilled in all autonomous accounts. This has been done since 2014. It wasn't done before, and it could be done. Of course, it wasn't at the time of the Bipartite. And they don't do so many autonomous communities in which you have government responsibilities. And then I'm going to put a lot of emphasis on the action plans in the educational centers. I think the culture of equality is fundamental, the promotion of equality, that this is something that takes everyone into DNA, and in educational centers make an even greater effort. We're doing it, and I think in this we're pioneers in the state as a whole. And we'll keep going that way. We have to do a special fincapé -- we're seeing it with the agreements we have with the College of Psychologists and Psychologists of Galicia -- to prevent sexual violence in youth. It's that sometimes there are examples and shocking situations. And that's where prevention must begin, and many times, unfortunately, correction as well. There's a lot more work to do with boys and girls. We are the first autonomous community to regulate training in equality and combat gender-based violence in the civil service, in the workers and workers of the Government of Galicia. I think this is fundamental, it's over 100,000 people who deal with a lot more people every day, and I think this has to be one of the fundamental elements in their formation. We're pioneers in this too. There's a lot of work to do with the city halls, too. The local network of entities against gender violence, I think, is fundamental. It's the ones that reach the territory, the ones that can eventually extend and reach through the information centers to the woman. Not only through these, but mainly, through this network, reaching centers where a few years ago it was unthinkable that there was a counselling centre for women so they could go there and not have to move, or that they simply got discouraged and went nowhere. I think we need to do a lot more and raise awareness of the political leaders, of all political parties, of mine and theirs. I think there's still a lot of work to do, and I've done a lot of this. And, of course, we must fight against gender-based violence. This has many aspects, but it also has an economic aspect, I'm convinced. And I think that just the figures don't stand a lot of comparisons. What was devoted ten years ago to fighting gender-based violence in all the worlds and what is now being devoted to everyone — including this government but especially for women who suffer from gender-based violence — has increased considerably. So we have a lot to do yet: the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan will be approved this March; the first General Administration Equality Plan will be adopted before the end of the year. There's a lot to do, Mrs. Quinteiro, and I'm going to make a call again so we can realize that we all have a lot to contribute. We, as Government, have the first responsibility; but you, as opposition, too. If you think everything goes wrong here and you do it right, you're absolutely wrong. You guys do a lot of bad things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u253	Thank you, Vice President. We move on to the sixth point of the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. From Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the deadline laid down by the Government of Greece for the implementation of the direct recruitment procedure of professionals of the judicial offices of psychological care to victims of violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u254	Question by Mrs. Patricia Vilán of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u255	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Since November last year, in the seven main cities of Galicia, there have been psychologists — one per office — at the victim's offices, providing psychological assistance to victims of all kinds, mainly and especially victims of violence, especially vulnerable people and children. And for us this service was right, aside from what we think it should be comarcalized and from the very first moment the deadline would have to be much longer. Those three months, the truth is, they're quite regrettable. His government crystallized this service — it was being tested — through an agreement with the Official College of Psychology of Galicia. It lasted until January 31st, the day you said — you, in particular — that you would take out the competition the seven squares assuming your management. It's good that Junta assumes management of something that has to be a public service, but since the day she closed — that was January 31 — we don't know when the professionals will be hired directly by her Government. You're not able to quantify, in principle, when. And these seven psychologists are not operational at the victim's psychological assistance offices, or at the victim's care in general. It is true that your own group recognized on 28 February, in a transaction of a non-law proposal that we have reached in Commission 1a, that we have indeed urged you from Parliament to agree an interim solution between January 31 — which has passed — and the moment when this final procedure already exists for direct recruitment from the professionals of the victim care offices — of a general nature, but especially the victims of macho violence. And we believe you should listen to Parliament. To ensure the protection of the victims and, above all, to address them at that painful moment, it is to go to the complaint and then have to repeat in the trial the same complaint or similar without being accompanied by someone who actually orients them and accompanies them in that trance is, for us, a priority. And in addition, with what I say specifically to the Organic Law of 2004 — which came late but came — we believe that the victims should not be treated with the Criminal Code in hand, but that this would be a very appropriate service. And that's why we ask them how long do you plan that service may already be in operation, but through that direct recruitment by the Government of Galician Union of Psychological Care Offices for Victims, in particular these seven psychologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Vilan, indeed, this service existed in the past. He created it in Galicia. He didn't come out of the air. It was the result of an effort and a process that was made in collaboration with the High Court of Justice, which always affected this need. And so I think this is something worthy, because it didn't exist. Even though there are obligations to care for victims, not only do victims of gender-based violence — mainly — but, as you yourself said, the victims in general, they come to trial and need a guide to a situation that is always difficult. In Galicia it has been implanted, and therefore works with an important effort from the Galician Union — I insist that not in all autonomous communities or much less — since last year. It's true that in order to implement them we come to an agreement with the College of Psychology. And from the month of January, by decision of the school itself, these professionals — at least under that modality — stopped working. And, therefore, the Galician Union had the obligation — and you were talking about that situation that had happened — to cover up that situation in which, after implementing a service, suddenly — and for reasons beyond the will of the Galician Union — that service ceased to lend itself. And you're asking me that when she's thinking of Galicia's board, she's gonna turn it on again. Look, it's one of the easiest questions you've ever asked me to answer in this Parliament. What I'm worried about is that, thinking that yesterday you exposed a series of data in my appearance when explaining the process related to the strike of Justice, and saying a series of things that had not been done in the Administration of Justice, I did a storytelling, and I told you that no and you said that I didn't know anything, I have to tell you that you're going little for the judges. They've been working since 1 March, Mrs Vilan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u258	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Vilan's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u259	Thank you, President. I didn't tell you at any time that you didn't know anything. On the contrary, you told me that I didn't know anything at all. You read the debate, indeed it was, aside from any of your Members saying that I had no ideas, that it was happening. [[Applause]] It's true that you said that I didn't know and that it would be good for you to leave my ignorance. I think the words were about that. Vice President, I knew it was March 1st. So much so that right now I was telling my partner that it was actually going to be like this but that March 1 was barely five days ago and the Speaker's Board was ahead. And as if we knew it was that on February 28 it sounded very strange to us that you had reached an agreement with us in a non-law proposition in Commission 1st and that you were so interested in reaching a transaction especially at this point, we already knew that you had practically closed this service. That means that now what we have to know is how the procedure is going to be done, and if the procedure is going to be through direct procurement, which is what you announced. It's not that there was a problem with the College of Psychologists, that you in October, with the president of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, said it was to end 2017 and that it was going to go according to the budget that had the board of Galicia. You already knew it was being tested and that it was going to be for a certain time. Knowing he was going to be in the test phase, in October maybe you had to predict the possibility that the service would eventually end. I don't now place all the responsibility on the Official College of Psychologists — basically because they're not here and therefore they can't answer. And the question then is, if the procedure has already begun, how will you do it? Are you going to be through direct recruitment or again you're going to decide that it's the Official College of Psychologists that assumes the responsibility that your government should assume? Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u261	Mrs. Vilan, honestly, at last, I understand that these things sometimes happen. But you asked me, not in your question -- it's right now in the Journal of Sessions -- when they're going to start working these professionals, when they're going to do the direct recruitment. He opened a law and they've been working since 1 March. You don't go much for the judges, because, if you had been, this question, Mrs. Vilan, you probably wouldn't have done it. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] These things, as I say, sometimes happen. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u262	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u263	Sometimes they pass.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u264	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u265	And it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u266	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u267	And nothing's happened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u268	Silence! Excuse me a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u269	No, if I understand that people are very nervous, because, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u270	Silence! Stop, stop! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you asked. Let's see if there's silence so I can follow the vice president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u271	Mrs. Vilan, although I think that, if you ask a question about this, you should certainly inform yourself. But, well, you haven't been informed, it's all right. What worries me a lot more is that you believe that in many of the things you said yesterday you have the same information as the situation of the professionals who are working in these victim care offices, who are already working since 1 March and you ask me when they're going to start working, when they're going to do that direct hire. It's a legitimate concern that also had Galician Union. That period is not the subject of the question, nor do I want to get into controversy here about the situation that resulted in that for about a month these workers were not working. But you thought they weren't working yet, and they're actually working. So I would appreciate it if the following questions about the Administration of Justice were to be reported a little more, because that's how we'll all be much more productive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u272	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and two other MPs from G.P. of In Marea, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the verification of the implementation by CRTVG of a deontological and self-regulation code for advertising and non-sexist communication
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u273	Question by Mrs Ángeles Cuña, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u274	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Wheela, as we all know, advertising and communication have a fundamental influence on the world's perception, and we can even say in the creation of reality. In Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February 2015, the consolidated text of the legislative provision of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality was adopted. In the Official Journal of the 17th of 2nd of 2016, in Chapter III, Article 13, as regards equal opportunities in the media, it is said that the Galician Union has much to intervene in both the media of public ownership and the media in which it participates or grants. What does the board have to do? Then ensure the transmission of a plural and non-stereotyped egalitarian image, as well as the principles of journalism. It must even condition the effectiveness of the grant to several aspects. A qualitative increase in women's visibility and audibility. You must observe, evaluate and correct, if any, programming and campaigning in which you see the need for women's social and political participation in representation, management and consultation bodies, and a balanced participation of men and women. And the central core of what we're dealing with here is the adoption of codes of good practice through self-regulation. There's more questions, too, but I'm going to skip them because we can probably talk later. As we propose it is very original: to comply with the law. To keep the law means to ask too and see what happens with these self-regulation codes and good practice. It is most surprising that no such code or similar document can be found on any transparency portal; no style books or documents will appear to you. Nor, for example, does there appear to be any dealogue that would allow self-regulation to operate, such as legality, in relation to deontological principles, real commitment to equality, rigour, search for truth, impartiality. Commitment to non-discrimination, commitment to women's visibility, commitment to the visibility of diversity, commitment to the eradication of stereotypes, commitment to a life free of violence and commitment also to women's and men's equality in businesses, and effective equal training for women and men.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u275	Please put the question to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u276	I have eight seconds. Don't rush me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u277	Yeah, but it's gonna end the time, so I'll tell you to ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u278	Thank you very much. I'm on time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u279	No problem. Mrs. Cuña, ask the question. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u280	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u281	I was just reminding him he was going to finish his time. Don't see evil in everything I'm telling you, there's no evil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u282	Evil...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u283	Make your question freely, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u284	Thank you very much for granting me freedom, but, I'm sorry, try not to cut because it's a fairy tale. The question is very specific, have you thought Galician board to check whether CRTVG, or some means in which it participates or subsidizes, implement a deontological or self-regulation code for non-sexist advertising and communication? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, I really appreciate the question. I think we all have to congratulate ourselves because, firstly, it is a recognition of the fundamental role of the media — especially the public, but all the media, because we all agree that they issue, and most of these times, very much communication — they have, if they do things right, and they do them wrong, in everything that has to do with the promotion of the values that I think we all have to defend in the matter of equality. So I'm a perfect platform to form — form good or form bad — society and even to raise awareness, with all the consequences that this has to do with the things you've said and others that we can imagine in what it has to do with equality, macho violence and everything we need to talk about all year and we're talking about especially these days. So, I think that providing responsible information, providing compromised information is an excellent way to work for equality, and that concern because the media, within their autonomy and their capacity, believe that this should not be discussed — not in the public, because they are public, I don't think we have to doubt either the ability or autonomy of their professionals, who ultimately emit this information -- I think this is something that has to concern us all, and therefore I am very happy about this question. I mean, the Galician Union has been working on this media for a long time. We have spread codes of good practice among directors and media directors for the proper treatment of gender violence. We did it in 2014. We have organized training courses for professionals in communication and advertising, as well as students from university careers related to communication and journalism. We have called for the equal communication contest to recognize the work of a special fincapé to promote the values of equality between women and men. And, of course, our closest collaboration, indeed, has to be with the public, with the Galician Radio-Television Company, and that agreement we signed for the awareness, prevention and visualization of gender-based violence, which determines a number of actions specifically directed at this issue, I think it's a great example. In addition, the Public Television Radio Company itself has its own regulatory mechanisms. By quoting them directly, firstly, you have an equal commission within your board of directors; the different political forces are represented in the board of directors. In its own regulatory standards, it includes a complete chapter dedicated to the image of the woman. The Company is part of the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, which also has representatives of the Galician Union, justice, trade unions, women's associations, the media. I mean, a plural representation, there they are too. It is also part of the non-sexist advertising advisory committee and is part of the advertising self-control association. In addition, the Galician Radio-Television Company's own website has a thematic channel on equality issues that I'm sure you know, and to say some concrete and last action, the public channel itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u287	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u288	...have offered to issue free the campaign that Joina carries out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u289	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u290	...on 8 March. Then I'd like to give you more data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u291	Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u292	I'm so glad he's happy but he doesn't tell me where I can look at that code, he doesn't say they've noticed, he doesn't say they've evaluated, he doesn't tell me they've corrected. Because if the house itself had a self-regulation code, it would have to be on the transparency portal and it didn't show up. Please tell me and tell me specific things, because that's a legal thing, what we ask is that this is done. You said several times in the last interventions, you repeated very much the good and the evil, which is done well, which is done wrong. Do things right, please. Of course it's not a manic issue, of course it's a very important issue. Compulsory and sanctioning effectiveness of the Equality and Administration Act is an obligation, and subsidized public media, too, not only the CRTVG. Laws are enforceable rules, but when it comes to equality, it always seems to be legislate with promises. It's like a judge says half the house is yours but he doesn't give you the keys. It's something like that. We think it's very important to say that the programs and training courses they did, those that refer to, were voluntary, not for all the workers, were not structured. So, what we need is to awaken collective consciousness. You talked about training. We agree, but it's absolutely contradictory to his practice. It is repeatedly said here that the Equality Law does not agree with concerts that segregate by sex. But at the media level, it's been a rule that has prescribed us to the UN for many years. Please tell me, in the answer you have now, where, what has been done, what progress has been made, the more you have seen, the more you have heard... You can't join a women's campaign for a week.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u294	Please give me concrete data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Turning to this question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u296	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, I'll gladly get in touch and I can make it easier for you. If you think that the good parliamentarian has no other way of achieving it than through my person, I'll gladly make it easier for you to find out that, indeed, this is not a week's task, it's a matter of every day of the year, not even a specific date, March 8th. Of course, if quantification has to do it to the Galician Union, I think we'd go wrong! I told him in my first question, you see, I don't... maybe they changed his step a little bit. No, it has to be public media, public media control. Mr. Pablo Iglesias has already said that public media must be controlled from the Government. We'll never be in that. We'll never be in that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If this is about control of the public media and that professionals don't have any freedom to... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u297	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u298	We already know that this subject makes them especially nervous, but we believe in the freedom of the professionals who work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u299	Quiet, quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u300	And Mrs. Santos is especially nervous, as we can all check. But this is about freedom... this is about freedom in the exercise of professionals, women and men, who work in the media. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Also from the public. Because they're public, they don't have to have a government to tell them what to put on and what to not. They'll have to... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u301	Quiet, quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u302	They'll have to have a government that sets up good practice mechanisms for all of this to be fulfilled, and I'll list seven. You didn't talk about any of them, she doesn't care. Tell me, give me the data, give me the data to believe you're doing control. We never do. And I'm going to take advantage of it to claim the good, the magnificent work that professionals, women and men do in the public media. All you care about is control. I'm interested in the people who work. And I'll tell you that the difference between a government that wins the elections and a party that's in the opposition is that what's in the government thinks that public media obviously have a regulation, but they have freedom for professionals, and what's in the opposition thinks there's a need to control them. Go on, Mr. Pablo Iglesias is the man who marks you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u303	Thank you, Vice President. Quiet, we're already finishing the whole thing. Quiet, hey! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry. Scandal is what you are causing because you have to be able to behave in Parliament. Please! This is a parliament, eh! Don't tell me about the scandal because from back there you can't do that. Quiet. Let's continue with the full. Question by Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the balance sheet made by the Galician board in relation to the results of the first call for aid for the installation of lifts held in 2017, as well as the forecast for 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u304	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, by order of 23 August 2017, the Council of Infrastructure and Housing, through the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, has created a specific line of help for the installation of lifts in those buildings of collective residential type, also for single-family housing and for the same duplex-type housings that exist in the collective residential buildings, for the installation of lifts and other equipment to improve the accessibility of those buildings in those who did not have any type of installation of that style. In view of this situation, and since it was the first time that a line of advice was created in this direction, we ask the following question: What does the Galician Board balance from the results of the first call for help for the installation of lifts, and what are the forecasts in this matter for 2018? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u305	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u306	Thank you, President. In Galicia, we are aware that there are many people with mobility problems who live in housing that are really not adapted to their needs. Being sensitive to this situation, from the Galician government, from the legislative point of view and also from the economic point of view, we have put in place various measures to promote accessibility through the installation of mechanisms such as lifts, save stairs... In particular, with regard to legislative measures, in 2016 we amended the Housing Act to facilitate the installation of lifts in neighboring communities. In the case of an expropriation to install an elevator, this law enables the municipalities to perform the expropriation, and therefore facilitates the installation of lifts. Also in 2015, the Economic and Industry Council, on economic measures, called for a line of assistance to renew and improve existing lifts. And last year, in 2017, the Infrastructure and Living Council took another step and published a new order for the installation of new lifts and other devices in those homes that lacked such facilities. The aim is to promote accessibility, to promote the mobility of neighbours by encouraging the installation of such mechanisms and facilities. This order of the year 2017 was published in August, and in addition to supporting the installation of lifts, we also — as I say — promote the installation of elevators, elevators and other devices that facilitate accessibility between the different floors of construction. Aid financing 60% of the total cost, understanding as a total cost, including professional fees, technical reports, certificates, expenses arising from the processing of reports, etc. As for the lifts, the new lifts, the aids are €4,500 for single-family homes, €28,000 for buildings with more than eight dwellings, and €35,000 for buildings with less than eight dwellings. Escalators, 2,000 euros of grant. A call that in 2017 was €1.3 million, and thanks to this call for 2017 we made it easier to install 59 lifts, spacers or other accessibility mechanisms that served 434 homes. Therefore, an order that we want to continue in 2018 to contribute, of course, to the improvement of quality of life and make life easier for the Greeks and the Greeks. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u307	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u308	Thank you, Counselor. I just wanted to know if we could complete an information. What proportion was there, so to speak, of applications or files from each province, and what type of files were more proliferated. I suppose those of a collective residential type, but knowing how attractive this kind of single-family housing aid was, or even those of a duplex type. And you might also have explained to us for the year in which we are, by 2018, whether you think about expanding the budget for it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u309	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Close this suspect, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u310	Thank you, President. For 2017 was the first specific call for the installation of new lifts, to facilitate accessibility in homes that did not have them. As I said €1.3 million that allowed 59 aids to install lifts in 434 dwellings in 2017. Practically all the aid granted was for buildings of more than one housing, two single-family housing aids and the rest, where we had the greatest demand was in Ourense province and in Coruña province. In Ourense province, 25 applications to provide service to 109 homes. In the province of Coruña, 21 aids are granted to give facilities to 144 households. So a big welcome. That €1.3 million has been exhausted in 2017, so we are processing a new aid order in 2018, keeping the same requirements, but the stakeholders will have more time for the realization of these works and can have this aid order immediately. This same month of March we will publish a new call for help for lift facilities and with more resources. So more time and more resources. A new call in which we will substantially increase the investment we are going to invest in this program; 1.3 million in 2017, 2.5 million in 2018. It's almost doubling support for elevator installation and improving accessibility we estimated that about 850 more homes. So, 850 more families that can access this kind of help to improve their quality of life. Remember that they are compatible with any other help intended for this same purpose, without exceeding the total cost of the performances. So with this new aid line created in 2017, to which we continue in 2018, we bet on improving accessibility and promoting the lives of hundreds of Greeks and Greeks with mobility problems. I also appreciate the opportunity you give me to talk about other measures that we are putting in place, and that we have set in motion, to promote mobility, for example, mobility in transport. Grants, for example, activated last year and also this year for the purchase of adapted taxis, Eurotaxes. Between last year and this year there are 600,000 euros to promote taxis adapted for reduced mobility. Therefore, the objective is to advance in the right to universal accessibility and facilitate life, in its day-to-day life, of the Greeks and the Greeks. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u311	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and 13 other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece with regard to the average number of pensions in Galicia, which affects women more seriously
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u312	Counsellor, put a speaker in the streets, look at the crowded squares of vicious pensioners. Listen to the voices of dignity, the punished bodies of time, the tattooed souls of memories. I returned the letter, yes, it almost cost more than 0.25% of the way up. I'm older, you know? The woman who didn't take the sea, with salty water to the van, wetting. The woman who later entered the cannery under cover, smelling the fish. Don't humiliate me, 97 cents up, you say? I'm asking for heads and bruises on the super. I don't make it by the end of the month, no. I turn off the oxygen machine to feed the grandchildren. The light has risen so much! The daughter in labor, in fear of the body. He with order of departure. Insufferable violence. I'm one in three, yeah. In poverty, but with a very high head. They set fire to the factory, only the violet smoke of the noble ones. They said, you have a right. Take Article 50 of the Constitution. Some people want us to retire five minutes before incineration. I don't leave any money for the coffin. I'd like to live like in Iceland! Don't make fun of yourself, Mr. President. Private plans, business for banks. Why did you empty your pension pockets? They said over 67,000 million in seven years, or 67 or 600, I can't count more than 347 euros a month. Of course you don't know what might happen tomorrow. Are you going to do what you can or what you can't do? Don't make fun of yourself, Mrs. Villalobos. Laughing at people who are in need? Don't make fun of yourself, Mr. President of the Banco de España. How much do you say you won the bank? Yes, the rich richest, the poorest. Inequality increases and increases every year. That's enough. Enough! Didn't they contribute for me? That's enough! I worked all my life at the factory and at home, at the hostel and at home, in the country and at home, in the house, at home, at home... taking care of, taking care of... and I'm a widow, I'm losing my memory, they want to throw me out of the house. I got the brazier. And you say that women never worked so hard, that we live in a happy world, that they tell the truth! You want the thought police? They speak so well that they hardly understand each other. Today, I see some ray of sun. I walk out the street with broken glasses of dignity. In the market I talk to other women, I feel the lax of life, learning the slogans, we stop for the world. Not a minute! We love each other alive, just like Argentina! Patience is over, we break the veil of equality, we are visible! Fair pensions, real measures. Yes, there are resources. What do you think, Counselor? Right or privilege? What valuation does...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u314	I'm not done yet. I have to ask the question, please! Mr. President, let me ask the questions, if you don't mind!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u315	I'm sorry. I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u316	It's the second time! I have to ask the question. What valuation does the government of the pauperima average count of pensions in Galicia, which most severely affects women, and especially those of Ourense, the poorest in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u318	The lowest pensions in the whole state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u319	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Government of Galicia is working very hard to return to our greatest efforts that we have made so that today we have a better Galicia. That is why, within the competence of the Autonomous Community as regards services to our elders, declarations of intent cannot only be made, but rather rather budgets which demonstrate greater investment in the area of older people. This greater investment, then, in addition to years of difficulties, has increased between 2009 and 2018, the year we are starting at this point, exactly at 108.73% more. In 2009 he invested more in Galicia 148 million euros, and this year we will invest 310 million euros. That's why we can say that for this Government our biggest assets are one of Galicia's main assets. And that's why I also have to say that we welcome that some party now has our biggest priorities. Surely we can remember some phrases about our older ones, qualifying them for their supposedly political behaviors. That's why we appreciate that this issue is brought to this parliament, even though the content of the question, I say, after answering it within the scope of our competence, is something that has to do with state competence, as is our pension system. From the Government, therefore, we would like first to address this issue by leaving aside parties, current parties and historical parties, because everyone knows what has happened to pensions in Galicia and Spain in recent years, as I say, the result of a profound economic crisis that we have suffered by all the Greeks, which we have suffered by all the Spaniards, who have also suffered by all Europeans. The first time pensions are frozen in Spain in forty years was in 2011, governing the Socialist Party. When I was talking about the lordship of a pensioner's account, I remembered another story I have here and for some time I can't read it to you as a whole. He's not a Greek pensioner, in this case he's a Greek pensioner, Yanis, speaking of the thirteen cuts that he's suffered from his pension just since the economic crisis hit all over Europe. At this moment, Madam, the Toledo Pact is being brought together in Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u321	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u322	...and, therefore, we hope that precisely good results will allow us to address this issue without partyism, speaking of respect and speaking of the sustainability of a system that has to be of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. Mrs. Cuña Bóveda has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u324	Thank you. Counselor, it seems to me... Not as you qualify him, perhaps of obscenity or indignation. There are important things. The lower presence of women in the labour market and the lower incomes of workers influence the worst conditions to cope with later age. You guys have a privatising voracity that's very remarkable. It is not to be accepted that the President of the Government himself calls for private pension plans when people don't reach the end of the month. I didn't do a woman's story. I tried to put the microphone in the street and bring some voices here. More than a third of the Greek homes survive with a pension. 56% of the German pensioners charge below the minimum inter-professional wage. It's scandalous that 81% of the German pensioners, 81% of the women, our women, are covered under the minimum wage, 81%. Do you know how many women earn the maximum pension across Spain? Just 2,500 or 2,800. Pensions are not an alms, they're not a privilege. I'm a right under the Constitution. Why is it so important to put other articles on the screen? Article 50 states that there is a need to guarantee economic adequacy for older people —and soon from the fourth. Why was the Reserve Fund emptied in 2011 — as it speaks of the past, of the past in which I was not politically, or our group — there were 66,815 million euros? Why was the pension pocket emptied by 87.88%? Why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u325	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! You have the reply, on behalf of the Government... silence, please! [[Murmurs.]] Let's see if they're listening to who's using the word; I'd really appreciate it. [[Murmurs.]] I'm talking, then, he's got the replica shift, on the part of the Government, Counselor King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot really make a reductionism around a topic so serious that it affects so many Greeks and Greeks, as it is the importance of our greatest in our society. Look, I gave you the investment data from Galician board in the larger area: 2009, 148 million euros; 2018, 310 million euros. That's the investment. From there, indeed, we can make you qualified, we can talk about commitment, we can talk about our biggest, but these are budgetary data. I too, I tell you, could tell you what's going on in places where politically some member of this House would surely be happier, like what happened in Portugal or what happened in Greece, in a crisis very similar to what Spain suffered, but with different consequences, of course, the fruit of effort, the effort of the Greeks and the efforts of the Spaniards, the effort of our people to get out of the way. Look, today, fortunately, in Galicia, as a result of that effort, our pensions are rising because people are spending more. Luckily, it's getting more busy because in Galicia there's an economic recovery that's going to be associated with higher employment and higher wages and therefore higher prices. The last figure, on 1 December 2017, shows that the average amount of the pension in Galicia for older than 65 years is EUR 892 and is above 92 euros than the average pension in Galicia for older than in 2011. Because it's true that the more jobs, the more protected the pensions today and tomorrow. These are not declarations of intentions; declarations of intentions have to be in the budgets, and the budgets of the Galician Union are already the commitment of the majors. We hope that they will soon be in other instruments as well. That's why the Toledo Pact is meeting in the Congress of Members, because, I say, we are talking about state jurisdiction in pension matters. I could also tell you about another autonomic commitment that only three autonomous communities throughout Spain — Andalucia, Extremadura and Galicia — which is the complement of non-contributory pensions that appear again in the budgets of the Galician Union for this 2018. So, I tell you, we will continue to work to have a greater economic policy and to have a better social policy, so that our older ones will continue to be active and that they will continue to consider Galicia's biggest assets. We need positive data in affiliations, positive data in economic growth, to do this — I say — not a proclamation, but a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u327	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the availability by the Government of Galicia today of a specific plan of integral care to the health of women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u328	To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u329	Thank you, President. In the case we deal with, we want to draw attention to or draw attention to a vision of gender that exists in health, Counselor. We all know that more than 70% of medical students are women, more than 70% of health professionals are women, in global data, however -- and today it has been said here -- what is the number of hospitals occupied by women in Galicia, Counsellor? It's relatively low, I'm sure you can give me the data, which I'd rather hear from you than tell you myself, that you sure know a lot. This is important, it's important how we relate to each other, as we speak, the nomenclature that we give to things, and it's important even the normative pattern that we use. Health is an androcentric field, Mr. Counsellor, the man is the rod of measurement, and that's why everything that has to do with health related to gender differences contemplates that things that are specific to the female gender are different, are exceptional. And that causes a problem. We are different men and women, but we are not unequal, we must not be unequal. There is a problem in health, and this inequality in Galicia, in addition, causes some neglect. Sergas treats gender differences poorly and those things that have to do specifically with women's health. For example, in this Parliament, your group, the Interterritorial Council, approved in 2011 a strategy for coping with fibromyalxia. Our group put forward an initiative that supported that report, which it put forward deep in it, and you voted against it. They voted against an agreement of the Interterritorial Council itself, in which they were. There was a unanimous agreement in this Parliament in 2015 to face a disease like endometriosis. We brought this Parliament a few weeks ago an agreement to comply with that 2015 agreement, and they voted against an agreement they voted on at the time. Less than 2% of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in the second quarter are done in Galicia, in the public system, when they should, when they have a right, and they go to concerted clinics in Madrid. You know that, and we all know true traumatic cases of people who have gone through it. That's why it's necessary to have a specific care and an integral health plan for women, Counselor. There was one in 2007, but you, like anyone who gets away from everything, who doesn't think about the dogma established by the People's Party, dropped them and they didn't do anything at all. That government of what you deny paid attention to these things, and you don't. There are two issues that are necessary to put in place an action: to do it and to do it. You make a lot of statements about what you want to do, but then you don't. That plan ceased to be met, and we thought: is it not necessary, then, given the reality, to meet the specific needs of women in health care, to have an integral plan of care for women? And what we're thinking is, do you have that plan? Because it would be a demonstration of how well they care for him. We're a little bit full of words that don't go along for facts. Do you have such a plan, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the word of Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u331	We have facts, and some have only words. [[Applause]] Look, when we talk about women's health, we're talking about the attention paid to half the Galician population, we're talking about that in January 2018 it's 1,376,000 women in the seven health areas of Galicia. For this government women's health remains a priority, with a first comprehensive Women's Health and Social Care Plan in 1999 and with the 2007 Comprehensive Women's Health Plan. They are plans that share the same objective: to respond to the health needs and problems that occur throughout the life cycle of the woman, in an integral way, promoting the physical, mental and social health of all women in Galicia. To achieve this goal we have several lines of work: a first boost of health policies that, with a gender perspective and cross-sectional perspective, address specific health problems for women throughout their life cycle, from birth to menopause; a second point, which is the training and awareness of health workers who care for women throughout their lives; a third point, which is information to the population and women to foster healthy lifestyles, to promote their health and to report on available health benefits; a fourth point, which is the development of actions to promote health and prevent disease; the point five talks on diagnosis and early treatment of disease; the point six talks on recovery and rehabilitation of health; and point seven, on coordination between primary and hospital care, facilitating care continuity through the unification of performance criteria and improvement of referral circuits between different health devices. These lines of work are shaped into technical and assistance documents and guides, integrated protocols and care processes, which are very useful tools to homogenize health care and thus reduce the inequality that can produce variability in clinical practice. The technical guides to existing women's health care processes have been reviewed and updated based on available scientific evidence, among them it is important to highlight that of cervix cancer, that of gender violence, that of preconceptional consultation and normal pregnancy and also that of pregnant women's health. In addition to reviewing and updating on the basis of new evidence and advances, we also developed the new guides and documents: the Technical Guide to Approaching Women's Pelvic Land Disfunctions in Primary Care, the Protocol to Enhancing Chagas Disease in Pregnant Women, the Information Guide for Women in Gender Violence Situation, the Information Guide on Maternity Rest, a brochure on Maternity Protection or outreach brochures on birth control methods. All guidebooks and outreach brochures are available to professionals and users, in pdf formats on the Sergas website, and we also have information on resources interest for women from the Health Technology Platform...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u332	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u333	...and also, of course, at the Galaga School of Health for Citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u334	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u335	Thank you, Mr. President. Your reply has begun hard, Counselor. You told me that you speak with facts and not with words, and I quote the 2007 Women's Comprehensive Care Plan as a great one. It's a strong start. [[Applause]] I don't doubt the 2007 Women's Comprehensive Care Plan, but you speak with facts and not with words. The truth is I could leave my reply here, because you're quoting me from the 2007 Women's Comprehensive Care Plan, and 2007 was a good year. Do you know what's going on? That that plan made him a socialist government, and you voted against the LNPs that went to the committee. [[Applause]] And of course, Counselor, we're going to share a part of your answer. Our group looks very good at that plan, and we share with you that it has very good strategic approaches. There are two problems: you didn't agree then and now you don't execute it. Because when they talk about facts, they're talking to me about those women who have to go to practice those voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in Madrid; some, as some have known, because of Sergas' inefficiencies, the voluntary and obsessive jobs of Sergas, because of that -- absolutely ideological; politics, Counsellor that you do -- that they don't like the Law of voluntary interruption of pregnancy. So they make it difficult for women to go through that process -- very hard for them -- and they're going to Madrid to get to concerted centers, slowing down these processes and going through because of the causes that some women in our country had to go through, who lost the possibility of having children again because of the delay of their advice. Are those facts, Counselor? Are those his facts? Because the only good thing you mentioned is the 2007 Plan, and in case you haven't noticed yet, Counsellor, that plan has approved a socialist government, and you haven't done anything since, because you haven't been able to quote anything at all. That's your policy on gender with regard to health: 2007, and from there on to nothing, Mr. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the word, for the replica shift, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u337	Yes, the truth is, for the four years they've ruled a lot of plans, but, of course, they haven't. We develop plans, whether own or not, and we develop them because we don't get to the Government to take everything out, but we pull out what doesn't work out, and of course we use them. [[Applause]] And he stayed with the first part of the answer, he didn't follow the next one I was saying, updates, new guides and new performances. All this is detailed and it's what women really care for in Galicia. You just don't want to listen to what you don't want to hear. Look, I'm going to quote some of the programs that we are running right now and that I think they are looking at, effectively, a good health system, like the one that's in Galicia. In prevention, we have the Greek Program for Early Detection of Breast Cancer, which is 100% extended from the population; we have the Program for Prevention of Colon Cancer, also in all health areas of Galicia; we are working to establish the Population Program for Early Detection of Cervical Cancer; in the same way that programs already existing in early detection of breast and colorectal cancer, once incorporated into the common basic portfolio of services of the National Health System; programs for promoting healthy lifestyle habits, the Caregiver, Caregiver, or Living People; also for improving care for pregnant women, we update the Technical Guide for Care to the Normal Pregnancy Process, incorporating current scientific evidence and new benefits, such as non-invasive prenatal testing within the prenatal care strategy. We have a specific protocol for the attention of pregnant women with additive disorders, the birth and birth plan, also developed by Sergas. The newly created hospitals have already been designed, with the intention of creating birth units that allow attention to the needs of mothers and their creatures and families. It is a new system that is applauded and, of course, congratulated by all the people who are users, both by them and by their relatives. We created two mother's milk banks, one at the Cunqueiro hospital and the other at the CHUS, Santiago, which are guaranteeing the supply to children who, for trouble, cannot receive the nourishment of their mother. And Connecta 72, which facilitates the contact of the primary care mistress with the woman after the hospital discharge. We also work on prevention and care for women victims of gender-based violence, publishing the health intervention procedure on gender-based violence. I would also like to highlight for us the importance in the fight against high-tech cancer with digital mammographs and accelerators -- agreed with the Amancio Ortega Foundation -- or the attention to menopausal women, very important. And they recognize not only the citizens, the patients and the patients, our work. There are also awards that we receive at the level of the National Health System, as a total of 14 files of the Galego Health Service, which have achieved the recognition of good practices in a strategy of care for normal birth and reproductive health, or as good practices in the care of women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u338	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u339	...victims of gender violence within the national health system. As you see, we work to facilitate information, training, prevention and assistance. And we want not only women to have the best possible health care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u340	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u341	...but also from personalized assistance to all our patients. Thank you very much. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u342	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the care of labour demands formulated by professionals serving at the continued attention points of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u343	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u344	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. And good afternoon to the people and professionals of the CAP who accompany us today from the rostrum. These professionals, who develop their activity in primary care and at the so-called continuing points of attention, are demanding job improvements and assistance. In 2008, a series of agreements were signed with improvements to work and published in the DOG to develop them over a number of years, which, with the arrival of the People's Party to the Government of the United Nations in 2009 and with the excuse of the crisis, were left suspended. We are in 2018 and the People's Party is announcing the end of the crisis and that we are in a process of economic recovery, but they refuse that the theoretical process of economic recovery translates into the recovery of these rights to Sergas workers. These workers and workers have a demanding table that the BNG seems more than fair to us and that is why we assume and support it; a table claiming that in its vast majority it is not even related to wage issues. Only two of those points are wage issues; the vast majority, the rest, are assistance issues. The conditions of occupational health deterioration have a very obvious impact on the quality of care. They work in conditions of permanent stress that are not acceptable to workers and workers. One of these days, something irremediable will happen, Counselor, and then you'll put your hands on your head. Workers claim the importance of their work, provide their services at the continuing points of attention, do between 60% and 70% of their work at nighttime, work 17 hours on weekends and 24 hours on Sundays and holidays, and a very important part of their work is done at nighttime or holidays. They claim that their working conditions have not been reviewed for ten years. They've been following the same material and human resources for ten years, when these times the emergencies have only increased by the aging of the population. The CAP staff do 90% of the job of 061, they're the ones who medicalize the ambulances, they do their homes, they take care of accidents, they take care of the infarctions. They claim that they work continuously in situations of minimum services and that this is impossible to continue because the situation of stress and fatigue they suffer is unbearable, but especially because the quality of care they offer is not the quality they should provide. That's why, Counsellor, what we ask you is whether you're going to meet the German Government — you — the demands of the professionals who provide the service at Sergas' continuing attention points, and it's considered that under the overload conditions in which these professionals provide services they can provide a quality of assistance that the Greeks and the Greeks deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u345	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u346	Ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, we believe in the points of continued attention; we firmly believe that they perform a magnificent work. We're talking about that in 2017 there were 1,548,000 primary care emergencies. And besides the resolutions; practically 92% of the emergencies that went to the point of continuous attention returned to home, it was not necessary nor needed to move. In fact, we are advising, when there are situations of increased attendance, that citizens trust in primary care, both in normal hours and in emergency matters. They've grown up recently in recent years, not explosively, but if they've increased those emergencies. And, as I say, we believe very much in the work being done at the continuing points of attention. We have magnificent professionals, who, as I say, are doing a job that is recognized by the population. And we want him to be more recognised and even more known. At the Health Council we always heard the workers, and so a few days ago — on February 21st — at the Directorate-General for Human Resources was received a delegation of workers from the continued point of attention to know their claims, which also made us write a few days earlier. As far as the demand for wage increases is concerned, it has been dealt with at different sectoral tables with representatives of workers on agreements and agreements on wage improvements, which since 2009 have been suspended, as you said, in the budget laws to the thread of the economic crisis. There are rights that have been recovered in this last legislation, such as the return of the extra payment of December 2012, the rise of 1% of the 2016 salaries, the return of the additional specific supplement of January and February 2013 and the recovery of days of free will and more of the additional vacation days. In the Budget Act of 2017, it was observed to recover the additional specific supplements of the extra payments for June and December, as well as an increase of 1% more in salaries. Similarly, other measures to improve working conditions have been adopted: annual OPE, a stability plan to reduce the temporality rates, a new contract or the open and permanent transfer contest. In the Budget Act for 2018, in accordance with the future State Budget Act — which, of course, would be good for the large parties to support in the Congress of Deputies — it contains a 2% salary increase in the salaries of all public employees. In addition, in its Article 6 of the draft law on tax and administrative measures, it speaks of the protection of motherhood and paternity. It collects an extension of the length of maternity and paternity leave and the increase of the average of the continuous care derived from the provision of guards, nights and holidays in situations of maternity, paternity and risk during pregnancy and lactation. As far as the OPE is concerned, by Decree 125/2017 of 30 November, the public employment offer was approved corresponding to the various categories of staff statuarial of Sergas, fulfilling the commitment that we had assumed to double the convened squares, 1,616 squares. Even so, he woke up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u347	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u348	...with the trade unions of the Sectoral Bureau laying the foundations of the ordinary professional career system for all collectives of staff, with a commitment to the recognition of the new grades in 2018. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u349	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u350	Counselor, I, in the name of the professionals, ask you not to mock them. He didn't make a single reference to his claiming table, which I know you know. [[Applause]] We all know they're great professionals. This staff has been making a lot of efforts and sacrifices so that the situation of deterioration of health is not greater. Look, you feel naked, despised and mistreated. They arrive one day and another to the exhausted, desperate house, because more than one day they reach the limit of their forces. They come home saying, today nothing happened, today I've released, but tomorrow I might as well not book. And in this context, you've had the occurrence of trying to increase your hourly calculation. They had the occurrence, in the collapse of the emergencies, of calling them to tell them that they didn't derive patients from hospitals, as if they derived patients from hospitals had been an occurrence and they didn't have enough professionalism to know when they had to do it or not. And that's when they said, "We're here!" [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Within two days — this Friday, 9th — the technical commission met, after having asked for a number of times, after they had presented signatures, after they had mobilized. And I ask you, on their behalf, that this technical commission be resolute, that you take care of your demanding table; a table that is indicative of what I told you, Counsellor, that only two of these points have to do with wages, that the rest are healthcare issues, such as that when you leave an emergency a doctor and an ATS and that you don't go to a doctor alone, that you don't have to go in a taxi, that you pay them dinner and food when there are 24 hours -- that you don't pay them only one of them -- etc. Shameful questions they wouldn't have to be demanding. I ask you here today, in their name, to stop making fun of them, to stop playing games with them, to be professionals who are at the limit, and to meet their demands. They're up there in the rostrum. When you've finished answering questions to parliamentary groups, have a moment, meet with them. And that in those technical commissions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u351	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u352	... finished, Mr. President—don't have them entertained for months. I ask you to meet your demands, not to answer how you have just answered me, vagueness, and to attend a demanding table, which, I insist, have been presented with several hundred signatures. It's just that they're basic issues. Counsellor, for once, heed the demands of Sergas staff, who is self-employed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u353	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u354	...and, apart from acknowledging their resignation, heed their demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u355	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the replica shift, by the Government, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u356	First, Mrs Prado, I have to correct what you say. I don't laugh at professionals, but of course I don't use them. [[Applause]] It never prohibits the derivation of CAPs to hospitals. What is reported to the population is that they go better, first, to primary care, to CAPs; and when the CAP professionals decide to move to a hospital, then we have clearly that they will be classified and treated by professionals with medical criteria. There's no other kind of criteria. And I'm saying that you're using them because you're using a cut and grab a proposal that makes a union at the sectoral table, which is where you have to review and where you should take all these issues, and that's where you're taking them. You're using them because you don't have any ideas to bring to Parliament and you want to use those workers. These workers — as of course they have no choice — will be received on Fridays and we will be working; we will have several meetings to try to reach agreements, which is what the sectoral Bureau is responsible for. But, of course, I do not like the use of workers or other types of collectives when the fundamental function is a function that is being negotiated in the sectoral bureau — as it says — by forming a technical group or a technical commission. And, of course, I'll meet again. Yesterday I was talking to several CAP professionals on this subject. I don't need you to be a mediator of the Health Council, it's not necessary. We have a clear understanding of what we believe are things that can be negotiated and with which we can reach agreements. We're reaching a lot of agreements, a lot of agreements. The Stabilisation Plan reached an agreement with all trade unions, minus one. Professional career? With all of you, less with one. It's funny! I think it's important to reach agreements. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] The Health Council's coming to an agreement. But, of course, the Health Council neither uses workers nor uses anyone to achieve any end. What he wants is to improve health services. I think we can reach agreements in this and other areas, but, of course, it will be on a technical table, on a commission, as we are doing, those that are performing the unions, sitting down and creating this working group, which, as I say, has been doing a review of all possible improvements for weeks. I am convinced that soon we will reach an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u357	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the improvements made by the Galician Union in recent years in the facilities of juvenile centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u358	To put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, in your presence at the full past, you explained the different resources of the Greek Child Protection System, and you told us that the Union currently has under its protection system 2,472 minors, of which more than half are in the care of welcoming families. Self-government gives priority, whenever possible, to the figure of family reception, but we all know that, when, under different circumstances, minors need to be temporarily separated from their family nucleus and when the use of another resource is not feasible, there is residential reception, and today is what we want to ask them. Because the Galician Union is developing an improvement plan at the facilities of the juvenile centres, with a line of help to improve the quality of care, and we want to know today that improvements have introduced the Galician Union into the facilities of the juvenile centres in recent years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u360	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. The Government has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken again in Parliament to answer a question that I am grateful for, because, in this case, as we have been talking about policies of action with children and children, today we are able to develop a little bit of the environment, precisely in what these policies are being developed when we are not talking about family reception, but about placement in our centres. Because giving priority to children's rights and having a maximum impact on the protection of all of them under the mandate not to leave anyone behind is an inescapable commitment to this government and to the whole of the Greeks. That's why, within this commitment, our investment, which has increased by 52% in the field of family and children, reaching EUR 133 million this year; a remarkable increase that is allowing us to carry out an ambitious program of improvement of our centres as well. Our centers are common environments for many children and for many children, and so we want to see that not only programs and professionals are the best, but also that the environment in which they move is a good environment. That's why we've invested in the last two years 2 million euros of improvement in those environments. In their own centers, specifically in the centre of San José de Calanz, all the bathrooms and all the rooms were reformed. The rooms didn't have their own bathroom, and today all rooms already have their own bathroom; we were able to replace all the windows carpentry and glassware and we were able to purchase new furniture, new games and new teaching materials, which is also very important for the day-to-day people who use it. Also in Ferrol's juveniles center we conditioned the entire plant down, we changed all the exterior carpentry, we installed a new boiler with gas oil change to city gas, we renewed the furniture and introduced new toys, new books and new educational material. The same in the centre of Santo Anxo de Rabade, with the construction of new sports equipment, with the renewal of common areas, with the improvement of rooms and also with educational material, as in the centre of children in Carballeira, in Ourense, or in the centre of minors in Pontevedra, which we complement with the assistance to social-initiative centres, in total 45, in which we have just added additional value to 625,000 euros. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u362	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u363	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. The protection of children, especially the protection of minors who are in a state of unemployment, of social disprotection, is a great responsibility of the Galician Union, but also of this Parliament and of all its parliamentary groups. In the past, when you approached this audience, there were political groups who frivolously took the issue of minors and the protection of children in our community. And today, unfortunately, in this debate of equality and women's rights, we also had to hear that the Galician Council did nothing to put in place measures of family reconciliation, which it did not put on the table or a single square of children's schools and that the Good Council does not work. That's why I think, from our parliamentary group, that conciliation for women, for children and children and for minors must be taken very seriously and not frivolously. Nothing else and thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u364	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The Minister of Social Policy, Mr. King Varela, has the floor for the Government's replication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Rodríguez Arias, the Gunta de Galicia has 73 centres for children and children who need special support from the Administration. As I have already pointed out to you, we are improving all these centres, the management directly of the Autonomous Community and the centres that manage social initiative entities. We are currently investing EUR 3.6 million precisely in these actions, which can be done, as I have told you, because the area of family and childhood of the Galician Union is reaching an budget of EUR 133 million this year; 50% more than when it was born, precisely, the Social Policy Council. And in addition, I can specify, in the field of protection for minors, the specific departure of centres this year 2018 increases the highest amount that has ever grown, exactly 20%. That's why I want to take advantage of your question to announce the consolidation of the aid line to social initiative entities that, in collaboration with the Administration, manage juvenile centres, giving continuity to this new investment line for 2017 of €625,000, which we are going to remove again in 2018, and that will benefit, as I say, 45 juvenile social initiative centers. [[Applause]] So, just as we're doing in major schools and our children's schools, the environments to develop precisely these girls and these children under the protection of the Galician Union, we want them to be the best; we don't want to spare a single euro public, precisely for those environments to be pleasant environments, environments like those they could have in any family. And I also want to take advantage of your question to announce the functioning of a specific centre in Ourense, the Montealegre Center, which we will put into operation in the coming months for children who need very specific attention. In it we will invest 1.5 million extra euros, precisely to have the best public squares and the best public services; so that when we don't get that family welcome, which is what we primarily push from Galicia, we have the best centers, the best attention for our children and our children. [[Applause]] That's our goal, the goal of the Government of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia for the recognition of the work historically developed by the women of the sea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u367	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u368	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I don't know if my question will be as timely as they just did, but, at least for us, it's just as important. [[Applause]] "Sorority: solidarity and agreement among women, which implies mutual, plural and collective recognition." This term makes a specific allusion. In a patriarchal context, there is no consideration that we are all equal. Yes, equality is the thing of men and women, but "sorry" is the thing of women, and that's exactly what we miss about their advice and also the women of the PP. [[Applause]] Because look, it's not enough to be here, we have to claim our place in this House. It's not enough to have an intervention every five times and only intervene at 20%. That's not enough. We have to claim our place in this House, too. [[Murmurs.]] If we're here today, it's the feminist struggle, because many women worked and fought so that today all of us can be here. Yes, always, always, always, we had to fight the obstacles and the obstacles on the right, but we're here today. That right is the same one that then welcomes those achievements that have reached the left and is the first to go up to them. We're talking about marriage between people of the same sex and no! Husband? Oh, my God, no! But then they're the first, of course, they're the first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u369	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u370	And the same thing happens in the sea, the same thing happens in his counseling, where we have to see women, who are the ones who play a fundamental and very important role. If we go through the ports, we can see him. They're the ones that go to the fish auction, they're the ones that move the boxes, they're the ones that're attacking the nets, and yet they don't have the recognition they deserve. They've been asking for a reduction coefficient for years to retire a little earlier, for years to claim that they've been recognized by their professional diseases... years and years in which they haven't achieved that professional recognition yet. So today we ask you this question, we ask you a question: when are you going to start working for the women of the sea to reach that recognition? Because we're late, we're late. If there's a sector where women still remain invisible, it's in the sea sector. So today we ask you: when are you going to show some "sorry" in your advice? Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u371	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. On behalf of the Government, you have the floor of the sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u372	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, I see that you are concerned about the role of the woman in the world of the sea, but, however, in the three minutes I had to talk about them, she just devoted 30 seconds. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I see you started saying you didn't know if your question was timely. Of course I do. And I would like you to ask this question today—caused by urgency, I think that tomorrow is the working woman's day, and you thought about them at that moment. But this allows me the opportunity to show them -- and that it is recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting -- to all the women in the world at sea how proud I am of the work they have done, and what we will continue to do. [[Applause]] You worry about what we're going to do in the future to make the work of women in the world of the sea visible. Look, I want to keep working for the future, but that concern that has given you to us today has already been sworn to us more than twenty-five years ago. It was in 1991 when we started working with these women. We started with the seamstresses, at a meeting that was held at the Acuculture Institute on the island of Arousa. At that time, women were asked if they really wanted to live on a professional career and if they were willing to take the step of contributing to Social Security and converting that work that they were doing and that was invisible to society into a bet on the future. They said yes. From that moment on, we started working with them, and we worked with the women in the marshes, worked with the fences, worked with the merchants and worked with the women in the packaging industry. And the pride I feel is that after the training courses they had, after their effort to organize themselves and work to defend their own, they were able to say the most important thing, and they felt proud of the profession they were defending; something that still many — as I see for you — are not able to recognize them. But we work for that work to be effective, and so today the co-governance of the seamstresses is reflected in the more than a hundred work plans that they themselves elaborate each year and which have strength from January to December each year. Today representation is observed when 24 per cent of the management posts of the Galaga Federation of Brotherhood are women, when there are 14 major sponsors in front of the confrries, when there are 28 major vice-sponsors in these confrries. Besides, we also work with Issga, to help them define a suit that would allow them to do their work in a more comfortable way; we work with Issga too, and with them, to conduct physiotherapy training courses, to see what postures they had to adopt in their work and thus reduce their professional diseases; we work with them to get them to have a pension, not without few distractions on the part of some political parties; we work with them to get them a reduction coefficient; and we will continue to work with them to keep them proud of the work they do. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u373	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Toja Suárez has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u374	Vele, okay. I see your answer, but I climb something else—what I can go up with is data. This is the extractive fishing of the occupied population in the national holding. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a chart.]] In green, men and orange, women. I was going to write the word men/women, but I didn't get "women" in orange space. This is the graph that shows the same situation, but in aquaculture: green, men; orange, women. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a second graph.]] As you can see, I didn't take the word "women." This is the chart that shows women affiliated to the sea regime in the last ten years. As you can see, we lost 1,800 women — one in four — affiliated to the sea regime. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a third graph.]] Don't mind, that this data is from your advisor's office. This, in addition, is the data showing the number of permits on foot of the women. As you can see, we also lost 1,080, again one out of four. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a fourth graph.]] And I'm still going to go up a little more, I'm going to go up the pension data. Look, the retirement date for 2016: in green, men and orange, women. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a fifth graphic.]] Do you know how much the sea pension men paid in 2016? EUR 1,090. Do you know how much women paid for the sea in 2016? 579. Are you really so proud today, that you come here to say that the seawoman is so well? Are you really so proud? One of two, Counselor, or if you're marking a lighthouse — which you've already got quite used to, to your headlights — or you're too ambitious. In either situation, you should consider whether you should be in front of this board, because women deserve more visibility in the sector. I'm just telling him to be late, and, as I said at first, "Surity." You, as a woman, show solidarity with the seawoman. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u375	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the reply from the Government, the Counsellor, Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u376	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I don't know where you get that data. I can tell you that right now there are 500 women who work in fishing, both low and high, that there are more than 1,500 women who work in aquaculture and that there are 2,800 women on foot. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] To be a seamstress on foot, you have to contribute to the Social Security of the Sea, not those 1,500 that you tell me. And I can't forget the more than 10,000 women who work in the processing industry and in the conservation industry. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows one of the graphs.]] Look, I feel proud of women, of course. You can support your arm as strong as you want. [[Murmurs.]] And look, I'm not talking about talking or I'm coming here pretending to be nothing... [[Mrs. Toja Suárez again displays one of the graphics, with the most raised arm.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u377	Quiet, the Counselor has been listening, quietly quiet, when you had... silence! [[Murmurs.]] I'll have to shut up. Thank you for your help. The adviser was silent and listened carefully to what the honourable Member said. So I beg those who ask for a silent moment to do the same. Please! Please! Continue, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u378	Mr. President, they get nervous and I don't know why. The truth is, as you tell me that I come here proud of not knowing that, that everything is falsehoods, that I've already got them used to, and as I expected that kind of answer, I bring them a book that was written to collect the professionalism of the seafood on foot. The book is entitled, and they took that train. [[Madam Counselor of the Sea, Quintana Carballo, teaches a book.]] I'll leave it to you so you can read some of the story, the steps taken by the seamstresses to feel proud. They say it, I don't say it. [[Applause]] Now I leave the book for you to know a little about the past and the gift of the seamstresses. But look, you talk about visibility, you talk about recognition. You can keep the graphics you want and play them any way you want. Visibility and recognition. I can tell you: the Maricadores received the Galician Medal in the year 2000, the ramparts received the Merit Medal to Work in the year 2016. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In 2017 they received the Crafts Award too, and even last weekend a video promoted by the Sea Councilmanship received the Master Matthew Award in homage to the women who work in the conservation world. And I know that from the prizes you don't live, but what I'm proud of is that since the year 2009, seafarers have increased their income by 22%. The most recent decline in the number of seamstresses was from 2005 to 2009. [[Applause]] We had to do a re-engineering job of the marine banks in order to be able to increase the number of operating permits. And it was the year 2015 when the data was positive about the number of retirements produced and the number of discharges coming in. Since 2009, 2,000 new seamstresses have been working on our banks. Mrs. Toja, I am glad that you bring this question here today and that you really care about the women of the sea. Then, in that struggle for visibility, you'll always find me next to you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-07-DSPG063.u379	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished items on the agenda, aborting session. Thank you very much.
