ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. We're on the agenda. Point one, appearances in plenary. Mr Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to take account of the proposal of the Board within the negotiating process to improve the conditions of employees of the Administration of Justice in Galicia Like Mr Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, at the request of the GGs. PP. of In Marea, of the Galician Socialists and of the Galego Nationalist Block, to give explanations in relation to the strike in Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u2	To formulate the appearance, the first intervention is the floor of the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u3	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I also greet the union representatives who are in this gallery today. And I'm telling you honestly. I'm glad you're here and you're listening to everything that's going to be said today. The appearance — it is known — is the request itself — and it is true, too, the president has just said, that the three opposition groups have requested it — to take account of the negotiation process that has been maintained since Galicia with the representation of the workers and workers of the Administration of Justice for the improvement of their working conditions. That's the title of the appearance, that's going to be its content and that's what the Galician Union is doing. At this moment, ladies and gentlemen, the indefinite unemployment, which is added to the three days before the strike, is already for twenty working days. We are perfectly aware from the Galician Union that this is causing many prejudices, of course the workers themselves who are on strike, but also — and especially — citizens, who today are seeing as many of the fundamental procedures they need are not being carried out, and of course those most directly related to the basic service of the Administration of Justice, which are all the collectives who work directly in the courts. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing to say to the Council of Galicia is that we are perfectly aware of a pact and the relevance of the basic service of Justice. That is why we have repeatedly expressed ourselves to the union representatives, and also to this Parliament and to all the places where we have been given the opportunity, which we need to find a solution. And I take advantage of this and I will take advantage of this attendance to hold once again the hand of the German Government, and I hope that there will be that same receptivity, of course, by all parliamentary groups and also by all trade union representatives. And when I talk about union representatives, I talk about all trade unions. I'm sure most — and I say most — want a negotiated solution as soon as possible. Therefore, we have expressed this will according to the Galician Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we have put concrete offers on the table, we have successfully improved them, we have expanded the negotiating points and, ultimately, we have done everything possible to try to reach that agreement that improves the working conditions in this fundamental public service. I would like to make a brief chronology — I think it is necessary — to understand what is the origin of this whole process, where we are, and where we want to get there, of course, without forgetting the spoken and agreed in this House and, of course, focusing on what I think today we are all absolutely in agreement on what is fundamental and what is preventing the conflict, which is the economic issue. This is a conflict centered on economic issues, and while someone doesn't admit this -- there's someone who doesn't admit it yet, I think it's general, and I think it was admitted by union representation and, of course, by the Council of Galicia and I believe that by citizenship in general -- while you don't understand that this is an economic issue and a strike with an economic claim, it will be very difficult to close it. With this timeline I was referring to, let me start not long ago, October 25, 2017. On that day a sectoral table is held and union representation indicates that it wants to deal with five points in particular. There were others to deal with. They didn't deal with that meeting because the union representation said there were five points to talk about, which were the ones that then refocused the claims that gave rise to the strike. The Galician Union has already opened up to negotiate these points. The conversations started. That meeting closed without the possibility of treating others other than those five points. There were some important ones, such as, for example, staffing for the new judges who would finally open on January 31st, but at that time it could be even before. But the truth is, only those five points were dealt with, only those five points were proposed to deal with. On November 15 the trade union organizations presented a notice of strike, the first for December 1 and 13, the next day of strike. Before these days, before 1st and 13th there was a meeting, on November 28th, to establish minimum services for those two strikes. And there the Junta, already at that meeting, offered to sign a document committing us to negotiation, with the aim of trying to move forward in consensus and to prevent these strike days — which then took place — and then trying to reach an agreement as soon as before, and — I insist — already in November last year. The union proposal was rejected. The first day of unemployment took place, which was December 1, 2017. Three days later there was only one appearance in this House by virtue of an inquiry by the Socialist Party. I did an assessment of the unemployment that had taken place three days earlier, on December 1st. I qualified him — because he did so — with an important follow-up and I got to know the managements he was at that time performing the Galician Union to try to close the whole conflict. And at that same plenary meeting it was agreed to urge the Galician Council to negotiate, in addition to unanimously, when the Galician Council had already expressed its will days before opening a negotiation process. In this negotiation process, a new meeting took place on December 7. There the German Government took concrete proposals in a text agreement to try to lead the conflict and was rejected by the union representation, denied the start of the talks at that time. Only four days later a warning was received for a new day of strike, this time as early as January 25. I mean, the Galician Council was surprised to receive this warning, because the next day we had convened a new meeting to try to move forward in negotiations. But the fact is that a day earlier a warning was received for a strike almost a month later. On 12 December — the day following that warning — a new meeting and a new rejection to be negotiated by the trade union representation. A more concrete proposal document was requested at that time to start negotiating, but negotiations would not open. And with that goal it was proposed, a calendar of meetings was made to deal with each of the five points individually and successively—that's what was said at that time. The next day — as I said — took place on the second day of strike, the day of December 13. And in this very House, a week later, a motion was adopted — even unanimously, it didn't have any problems, it didn't have or will have it — in which it was said that we have to keep negotiating. That motion approved the need to establish a period of permanent dialogue in this area, and also with specific mandates, to those I shall soon refer to. With this willingness to negotiate, there was a first meeting at the Galego Labour Relations Council on December 20, with a first offer of economic growth. The Galician Union — which is clear at this meeting, I think it is clear, does not need to say it, but I think it is the place to remember — has never been able to negotiate an economic increase. The Galician Union has always recognized the need to make proposals for economic growth. And at the meeting on 20 December, the first offer of economic increase was already made: 50 euros a month for the manager's staff, 35 for the processor and 28 for the aid; and in addition, the offer of a possible supplement for the staff working in the gender violence courts was added. Next meeting, also within the Galego Labour Relations Council. Second economic offer. In parallel, other points would be negotiated. There was a deal — and I think that's recognized, and I would also like to refer to that in the audience — recognized by everyone, that these agreements can be closed already. Now, they also said union representatives that no agreements would be concluded without reaching the fundamental agreement, which is the agreement in the autonomic supplement, i.e. economic agreement. But they've been negotiated in parallel and for a long time, and I think those points are closed. But at this second meeting on January 3, the second offer of increase: EUR 59 per month for the staff of the management body, 40 for processors and 31 for assistance. Third meeting, third economic offer to raise: EUR 75 for managers, 62 for processors and 55 for aid workers. At the same time — I insist — three other points of the five were negotiated, where there was practically agreement. And, with those three agreements closed and clarified that the choice was still the economic offer, it is unknown who has the negotiating capacities in the economic aspect of the Galician Union, which had to be incorporated, the Business Council, the General Directorate of the Civil Service. And at this meeting, which took place on January 19, the points in conflict were exposed and it was the first time union organizations left the negotiating table; there were more later, this was the first. On January 25th, the third day of unemployment took place, — let's remember — already announced since December 11th; there were later meetings to try to close the conflict. In short, between warning and strike, five meetings to try to approach postures, without being able to approach them. We resume after the strike, with important follow-up too, the conversations on January 31st, and the meeting ends with the closure of the trade union organizations — of course, before they get up from the table — on the premises of the Directorate-General for Justice. Two days later they also rose from the meeting of minimum services for indefinite strike, generally saying they were excessive, calling them before the High Court of Justice. It is true that the High Court of Justice has not yet ruled on the merits of the case, but has denied the request for a precautionary suspension which the unions also made, saying that they were, in principle, enforceable and therefore validating their application, even if it is transitional. The next day, February 7, the indefinite strike begins. On that same day, the Director General of Justice came before the media to fix positions on the part of the Galician Union, to reiterate the four economic offers that had been made to try to close the conflict and to remember that other points that claimed union representatives were virtually closed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of the indefinite strike, and before — as I said at several meetings — there have also been meetings on 12th, a meeting, a new approach, a new economic proposal: EUR 90 for the manager's staff, EUR 76 for the processor and 68 for his assistant, fulfilling the commitment and even the mandate of this Parliament to match, since we are talking about equalization, the remuneration in the autonomic complement to the average of what is collected in the whole of autonomous communities. It's an average, an increase, which was even above the table, from 1,000 euros to half a month, ladies and gentlemen, by worker. And 1,000 euros a month is what many workers earn in Galicia. This offer says it because it has been qualified as ridiculous by some, not by all, by some union representatives, an offer of 1,000 euros, which is what many workers and workers earn a month in Galicia. We held more meetings after this offer of an average of 1,000 euros a month, which was — I insist — qualified by some union representative of ridicule. A week later, two new meetings: one on February 19, duration of nine and a half hours, and another on day 20, also with an approximate duration — a little less, nine hours —. And I think the conclusion of this last meeting is by all known: trade union organizations are back up from the table and say that they are not worth any of the negotiators, one of the partners designated in the exercise of their freedom — as well as, of course, they can make union representatives — by the Galician Union, even with some dequalifications of large caliber towards some of the negotiators of the Galician Union. And already to finish this chronological exhibition, as you know, last day 24 there was a mass demonstration of workers and workers of the Galician Union in Santiago, a question which, of course, to the Galician Union seems absolutely respectable, as when it developed in a normal, peaceful way, as if they had to develop the demonstrations called and celebrated in a democratic way. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the action of the Galician Council is concerned, I think it is necessary to focus on this whole question: twelve meetings since the conflict was put forward, four economic offers — each one at a time with respect to the previous one — additional proposals from the Galician Council Administration for the improvement of working conditions and the reconciliation of the staff of the Administration of Justice and constant information both in this House, of course whenever required by the opposition groups, as well as citizenship throughout the process. And, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start this intervention with this chronology, as I told you, because I think it has to be clear what it was, what it is, that it will remain the clear will of negotiation by the Galician Union. We want to close this conflict, I think it is necessary to close this conflict. In addition, I wanted to be central and report the numbers on the pay issue, because this is the question — I insist — and whoever says it's not wrong or it's not really in the conflict. This is the issue that is preventing this negotiation: a demand for economic content. I'm not going, because I think it's not the object of this appearance — I can do it in the replica — to make an account of everything invested during these years in the Administration of Justice by the Council of Galicia, of how the budget has grown, of how officials' squares have grown, of how much effort has been made with the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks to modernize the Administration of Justice. But here we are in a negotiation, an economic claim, and simply an economic one, and when we are able to reach an economic agreement, this conflict can be closed, because the other agreements — I suppose they won't discuss it — are closed, waiting for the economic aspect to be resolved. Therefore, as we are in Parliament and as there is a parliamentary mandate, I would now like to focus on what this Parliament has determined that it has to do with the Council of Galicia and what is being done, therefore, by virtue of this Parliamentary agreement, to see where the conflict is and how it can be resolved. The Parliamentary Agreement, which was adopted unanimously, by recalling it — I am sure you all know it — literally said that the Galician Parliament urged the German Government to attend the claims of the trade unions representing the Galician Justice staff and to open a period of permanent dialogue in the following terms — and here are the points on which to negotiate. First. Improving the salaries of employees of the Administration of Justice with the average of the rest of autonomous communities, especially in the transitional autonomic complement. I said so, ladies and gentlemen, twelve meetings, four bids at the height, and other improvements for certain personnel of the Administration of Justice, in particular what works in the judges of gender-based violence. As I said, we offer an increase of an average of 1,000 euros per month. With this, Galicia would be on average, which is what was being asked for in this Parliamentary agreement, of what the whole of the autonomous communities charge. I know where the discussion is, but from all the autonomous communities, of the seventeen, it's going to be surpassed by the average of what's being collected. Specifically, in the body of managers, above ten autonomous communities; not of processors, above eleven; not of aid, above thirteen. In addition, it would be necessary to add to this the increases that would legitimately be perceived by all employees of the Administration of Justice when they closed, and it seems to be — or so they transmit it in addition to union representatives, and this is even in the newspapers — that definitely that agreement that is being negotiated at the state level for the increase of 8% of the salaries of all staff to the service of public administrations; that is, this increase that is currently being proposed to the Council of Galicia, at around 4%, would be added to the 8% that would be perceived, that we would perceive, that we would receive all public officials. What happens at this point?, which is — and you know — the conflict. I think that we have to think about it this way, because whoever raises a conflict — and he knows what we're talking about — can start to find a solution to close it. Trade union organizations demand much more, at least today's demand. In fact, its planning, of EUR 2,700 per month, would place the autonomous complement perceived in Galicia just below what is perceived in the Basque Country, which is — it has to be said — 53.4% above the average of the rest of the autonomous communities. This is the plan of right now, 2,700 euros a month. Therefore, the Galician Union said from the beginning that public archives cannot admit, they cannot negotiate by accepting this amount. We've explained it many times. You tell us you did. I ask you, gentlemen of the opposition, spokesmen: this, moved all to Galician Union, is more than 500 million euros. Is it logical? Do you have to? Should I also tell you later to the rest of the professionals in Galicia, who would be entitled to a rise of 3,000 euros, just as you have to accept what the employees of the Administration of Justice are proposing? This is the big question. Then, when he comes from an administrative office, from a liberal professional, from a bus driver, from a nurse, and when he says that 2,700 euros average a year, I say, simply, would you also say yes? In the administrations that are ruling, if this request had been made to them by all the officials of those administrations that you rule, would they also say yes? Or is it much more comfortable to say that you have to say yes to the Council of Galicia but to you say that that claim did not raise it? This is the big question, this is the big question, and this is the focus of negotiation. And when you negotiate and talk about these things, you try to come up with a solution. Now, it's very easy to do demagogy, it's very easy to say that others do what you wouldn't be in any case willing to do. EUR 2.700 per year is what is right now on the table by the union representation and what is preventing this agreement from being concluded. [[Murmurs.]] Second point. To consolidate the squares that respond to structural needs, especially those of over three years. The plot is clear, I think there's no conflict here: they'll turn into fixed 36 reinforcement posts. Those squares, if you come to an agreement with the unions, could already be offered in the next contest and give a chance to 36 men and women officials of the Administration of Justice who are now working outside Galicia to have an opportunity to come to work on their land. The cost of this measure is about a million euros. They are 6 new management squares, 24 processing, 6 aid; 16 in the province of Coruña, 5 in Lugo, 5 in Ourense and 10 in Pontevedra. All of this is known by the unions and I dare say that they would accept it as part of the five-point agreement they proposed. Third point. To restate the squares that have been amortized in those so-called areas of special concern. I don't think there's too much conflict at this point either. Those squares included in the reorganization plan that were not subject to the creation of another organ or service would be negotiated wherever necessary, particularly in common services that centralize and improve the services rendered to the citizen within the framework of the new judicial office. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the squares will be rearranged, i.e. they move from the organs and services where they are not necessary for those who are, as has already been done with the consolidation of fiscal reinforcements; for example, the creation of forensic doctors' squares or new appropriations in court. Thus, it has already been created, among others, 5 squares in the courts of Lalin, Viveiro and Sarria; 26 in the prosecutions; 31 squares in new trials, which began to run on January 31st. I insist: I think there would be no conflict at this point either. Fourth point. Negotiate the agreement aimed at eliminating discrimination in the judicial field with other bodies of officials or authorities in the treatment of situations of temporary disability. Here I am again referring — and the unions know it perfectly — to the agreement that is being negotiated — and it is also known and evident — at the general level. Therefore, when this agreement is agreed and reached at the general level, the Council of Galicia will extend it to the most favourable version for officials, not only for those of the Administration of Justice — as I think it is legitimate to understand — but for all the workers and workers of the board of Galicia, in its most favourable version, within the arc permitted in that general agreement, and it will apply it immediately, but not only for the officials of Justice, but also for all the workers and workers of the board of Galicia. And this is a close deal, according to whether you've reported to us, and secondly they also know union representatives. Last point. There will be 100% remuneration in cases of substitutions of a superior body, requiring the Government of the State to reform state legislation by applying the principle of non-discrimination and equal treatment, collected in the European Union Court of Justice judgment of 14 September 2016. You know that at this point — and you know Mr Villares especially — there are judgments of the High Court of Justice that prevented this application. The Galician Union tried and couldn't be. An expert has already been asked to be told to be able to protect as long as it allows the Galician Union to pay. There's no problem with this either. The rule needs to be modified to include the perception of this additional amount. That advice is missing from an expert, but it's delivered. Therefore, the Galician Union would make these disbursements, this payment to the official staff that is occupying a higher position for it to receive the same remuneration, which seems logical, understandable and fully defenceable to us. And besides, the Autonomic Administration knows that you have offered additional improvements in gender-based violence and conciliation. Of conciliation, intending to go from 16 weeks to 20 in the case of maternity leave and from 29 days to 5 weeks in the case of paternity leave. This would put Justice officials in a position first with regard to their colleagues in the state as a whole. And we also offer monthly a supplement for targets linked to work, as I said before, to the officials and officials of the judges of gender violence: 100 euros more per month to each official or would function in the exclusive courts — La Coruña and Vigo — 75 per month to each officer of the examining officers who have assigned the competence of gender violence — Ferrol, Santiago, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra, i.e. the rest of the cities — and 50 per month to each officer of the judges of the villages who have attributed the competition of gender violence when it exceeds the income of 100 urgent prior diligences per year. This is also known for union representation. It's also a measure that adds to the creation of seven psychologists' squares -- they're already working -- in the courthouses of attention to the victims of the seven big cities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these are, first, the precedents for negotiations. It's not true that the Board does not negotiate, it's not true that the Board does not make proposals: twelve meetings, four proposals at the table. Joiner wants to close this conflict. The Board, as I told you at first, is perfectly aware that the Justice Service is a fundamental service, it is a basic service. The Council of Galicia is perfectly aware that citizens cannot — and professionals of course also, but we talk about citizens in general, who are those who support all public services with their taxes — cease to perceive basic services of Justice which are essential for them to exercise other rights. And therefore we will do everything possible to close the conflict from rationality. Mr. Rueda doesn't sit down to negotiate, he doesn't sit down the director of the Civil Service, he doesn't sit on any representative of the Union in particular, he sits on Galician Union, which manages the resources of all the Greeks and Greeks. You want to leave this question on the table, would you accept directly the request that it is now posed as unmovable by trade union representations, at least by some trade unions? Do you guys have some kind of explanation? I'd like that if the Hobera -- this is an audience but also a parliamentary debate -- they said it here. After meeting with the union representation, when the conflict was already open; after telling him that they had accepted their claims, that at that time they were much higher than they are now; when you voted they said yes and then, at the stage of amendments, two of the parliamentary groups, the BNG and the Socialist Party, put zero euros in chapter I for this salary increase, Euro!, and the tides of Podemos put four euros a month, four euros a month! in the amendment to Chapter I. Do you think a conflict is going like that? Do you think it is right to tell the workers and workers, their union representatives, that they agree, that they will support them, and when they have the opportunity to shape that support in budgets, which is because of what they pay, they put zero euros or four euros a month? Ladies and gentlemen, we try to be much more serious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u4	Quiet, Mr. Villares. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u5	Together has negotiated, negotiated and will negotiate. We want to close this conflict. We want to do everything we can and we will. But in view of the fact that no specific representative of the Galician Union sits, the Galician Union sits, the Greeks and the Greeks also sit with their taxes, support the public services, support the wage increases that we can achieve, and ask for rationality and not demagoxy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u6	Thank you, Vice President. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u7	Good morning. I want, first of all, to welcome the representation of the strike committee that is present in this plenary and also the workers who are outside, in the street, demanding justice for the workers and workers in this field. Mr. Rueda, I'd like to ask you, on behalf of the BNG, whether you feel a smuggler. If you have lunch every day with smugglers or live surrounded by smugglers. If it seems to you that Galicia is a country of smugglers or has ever been on vacation with drug traffickers, because this seems to be the usual one in this country. And what we're saying from BNG is that most of the Greeks and the Greeks don't connect with smugglers; most of the Greeks and the Greeks don't go on vacations with drug traffickers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u8	Mr Bará, to the appearance, to the issue of justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u9	Yes. We're going in, then, in flour now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u10	It's an expression. It's a colloquial expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u11	We're going into flour, Mr. Rueda, gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, who sows winds, collects storms. We're living a social storm and you don't seem to want to know. It's really a cyclone of discomfort. We're not talking only about justice, it's a true cyclone of indignation against the governments of the People's Party, against the policies applied over all these years on the pretext of the crisis, which was actually an excuse for an account adjustment. But not only an adjustment of budgetary accounts, but also an adjustment of accounts on matters — and to me this seems to be even more serious — of labour rights, democratic rights. You're what you've wanted all these years was to be afraid, to be scared. We're seeing how laws — for example, the law bites, or the criminal code — are continually used to persecute people who disagree, people who express their freedom of expression. But people are also beginning to say enough, gentlemen of the People's Party. People are also discovering, besides, the deceptions, traps and lies like those you came here to pronounce, which started very moderate, very dialogueative, very willingly agreeing, and ended up making them in Parliament's rostrum opposition to the unions and opposition to the opposition. That's not the role of a responsible ruler, Mr. Rueda. It's not. You didn't come here to hold your hand. He came here to do what he's been doing all this time, which is to put more wood into the fire, to make a fireman. That's what you came to here, and it's absolutely regrettable. You didn't contribute to postures today, but what you came to provoke, which is what you've been doing all these months. People are tired of deception and lies, because you told them a story — a story, as it is now said — and now the trap is being discovered, the lie is being discovered. You said: we left the crisis after a lot of efforts -- by the way, efforts and sacrifices that made the working class pay in incomes and rights -- and now that GDP rises, that there is an economic improvement, it turns out that there is no breakdown, there is no return of the stolen, there is no justice, at least for the majority, for you, because you do raise the salary. Mr. Feijóo, counsellors and Mr. Rueda last year raise the salary and this year raise the salary as well, but for the rest of the civil service staff there is no justice, there is no return from the police. That's why the malaise, that's why the goat, that's why the outrage of so many people, that's why this wave of protests and indignation. Because whoever sows winds, collects storms, lords of the People's Party. And there are the protests, the outrage against the corruption of the system and the corruption of the People's Party, which is a party corrupted by corruption. It's raising, for example... When I touch you, Mrs. Prado del Río, come here and say what you want, but now listen, okay? Now listen. Now you listen to him, yes. He doesn't like it, but he's listening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u13	The lifting wave, for example, of pensioners. You thought he was a meek, submissive people, and it turns out that they're also raising themselves. The wave of the rebellion of returned emigrants, in health, in justice, of course, in women, who will strike this Thursday. And you're saying why the strike just this year? You know why? Women don't ask anyone for permission to strike because they exercise a right. They don't ask the People's Party for permission to strike, they do it now because they decide what to do now. Besides, it's a strike that's being convened all over the world, it's not a strike precisely -- as you think, that they have this pursuing mania -- against Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy. It's a strike the women have decided to do it now. And, of course, also the staff of justice in the face of that wage and labor discrimination. And I'm telling you that it's not just, or primarily, a wage claim, which is where you want to take the debate, Mr. Rueda, throwing people on the staff of justice. We're in 2018 and the social truce is over, because whoever sows winds, collects storms, Mr. Rueda, and there's a movement of indignation and rebellion in society, there's a living people, a people with dignity, they're moving the land beneath their feet to the People's Party, they're moving the armchairs of the People's Party, and you're still installed in the prepotence and sovereignty, they're still installed in that absolutist majority, and so they're not going, of course, to stop this storm, this democratic auction of justice and dignity that, as they do, will lead the People's Party forward. Mr. Rueda, you told us a timeline here, but it's a cheated chronology, a fake chronology. You told us a story that starts on October 25, and this story doesn't start on October 25, Mr. Rueda, this story starts on 2012, in 2013, when they start to cut off the entire public administration staff and the justice staff. When they put their hand in their pocket and seized 20% of their salary, they lost between 6,500 and 10,000 euros over this period. That's where the story begins. And history also begins after summer, when there's this attempt to negotiate on the part of the justice union committee and they find the doors closed. Above all, Mr. Rueda, your door. Because you, in eight years as an adviser, never met with the unions of justice. They're easier to meet with the Minister of Justice than you are, and this is also a symptom of your lack of dialogue. That's called prepotence, that's called chullery, nothing more and nothing less. And to workers and workers of justice it turns out that patience is over, and you don't understand that. After a lot of endurance, after a lot of yielding, after a lot of giving up, after years of sacrifices, that he put his hand in his pocket, that he humiliated and denigrated them, they said, "That's right!!" And they were planted. And they claim what is right, they claim their rights. In that sense I am an example, I am a pride, in these times that run, in addition, of resignation, of fear and of resignation. And there's that indefinite strike that's already going for a month, which will be done tomorrow, and I remind you, Mr Rueda, that you have massive support. And not only that, but now, besides, there's also a forensic strike, look at you! And now we're also talking at the state level about mobilizations and a strike call by judges, magistrates, magistrates and prosecutors. And this with all the negative consequences that we know you have the strike for everyone, but also for those who do it, who lose a lot of money to do the strike. It's not free to strike, and it's worth a strike as the workers and the workers of justice are doing. This week, since the conflict began, in that false chronology that you told us, you've clearly seen the irresponsibility of the top leaders of the Union and, above all, yours and Mr. Feijóo, who haven't had bridges, as you said here, they haven't had bridges. Instead of bringing up postures, they chose a confrontation strategy, they devoted themselves to burning firewood. They attacked the personnel of justice with disqualifications, with lies about negotiation, as you did here, because there are no agreements on those three points, because you haven't yet given the data of the reinforcement squares or given the data of the amortized squares, and without that nothing can be agreed, by setting an example. Just like the manipulation they make of economic figures. You guys did this were demonizing the workers and the workers, accusing them of being privileged and of being unusual people, trying to confront them with standing people or people who earn the minimum wage. I really think it's a ruin that makes that kind of argument, and what you're doing is you're putting your spirits even closer together. They don't use those arguments because they don't come up with such positions, Mr. Rueda. And now, in case it was little, it turns out they come with blackmail that they have to stop taking a break to sit down and negotiate. But don't you realize that strike is a fundamental right that workers and workers have and that they have to respect it, Mr. Rueda? At this point, we think, of course, that we have to look for a solution. BNG claims to be looking for a solution. In addition, a solution that has to be based on two principles for us. The first, an external mediation. It is clear that the positions are faced, that the conflict is overcome. So what's the problem with looking for external mediation? We thought it should be the Galego Labour Relations Council, where, by the way, there had already been progress in negotiation. And that negotiation must also be based on parliamentary agreements. What happens is that you're used and used...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u15	...to submit, to fear and blackmail, and when they plant face to face as they do now, what they seek is revenge, what they seek is revenge and what they seek is to make a high price for that challenge. You don't know, Mr. Rueda! This is no longer a strike for wage and labor rights, you insisted very much that it was an economic issue. By the way, if you accept this agreement that you propose to them — which does not anticipate an increase for 2018, by the way — what they would do is that by 2020 they would be charging 9% less than the average of the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u17	This is no longer — finished, Mr President —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u18	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u19	...an economic issue, it's now mostly a strike for dignity; it's a strike for dignity. And if you don't understand this, you don't understand anything. So they come down from this pedestal of pride and pedestals, accept mediation and comply with parliamentary agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u20	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning to all the representatives of the workers and good day to all the lords. Today is 6, last morning will be 8, the day when women will claim our right to equality, also in justice, and one of the pioneer jurists who fought for women's equality was Arenal Concepción, dressed as a man so that he could go to the classes, cut his hair, dressed as a Levite, cap and hat. That's right, when they accepted that he was in the classroom, he was a man of his family who took her to college, until through several men he came to classes that he shared only with men. We speak of the year 1842, and one hundred seventy-six years later more than 70% of the workers in Justice are women, and more than 64% of those in the judiciary under the age of 50 are women. But none of the five chambers of the Supreme Court is presided over by a woman, nor does the Constitutional Court. And the reason is that we live in a macho society, and that's why we're going to stop on 8 March, also for women's and men's equality in justice. [[Applause]] Because this is about justice, and this is about freedom. There's an article, which is the 24th of the Constitution, Counsellor, which talks about the right of defence, and in the right of defense there is the possibility of lying to defend yourself, and you went up here exercising your right of defense by lying, and he was so nervous that he told us of a monthly upward of 1,000 euros for each of the workers. If that's the case, we stop the show, we draft an agreement in which, in fact, if you say you're going to charge an average of 1,000 euros each and you're done, you can go to San Caetano and we stay here and we'll follow the plenary. [[Applause]] Because you know it's not true, it's not true, vice president, it's not true. If you double the offer you have on the table, you're likely to be so close to the request on one side and the offer, on the other hand, that you come to an agreement. But you're in an unremovable position; don't tell us here that it was 50, and then 90, and, in how many years?, what mean what autonomous communities? Because you're in a table that gave the unions 19 autonomous communities, and now you're here telling us that they're 17. We already knew it, indeed, not a lie, it's 17, never been 19, counsellor [[Applause]] Don't lie, because, precisely because you're lying, we're where we are, and you don't believe it anymore, Counselor, it's been nine years without having any relationship with union representatives or with the workers of Justice. And on December 19, 2017, it was when we unanimously approved here — you too — our motion, and between that date and today, what happened? You give us the feeling that you've lost specific weight in the Government, perhaps the ones giving orders in Justice are the Employment Counsellor and the Business Advisor, because we don't understand very well why the Galician Council of Labour Relations first yes, then no, why the Director General of the Public Service, who really cuts the cod there. It's a little weird! You come here today forced, Mr. Rueda, don't say that it was your own request, indeed you asked for and you registered your appearance the day after the whole opposition had been asked to appear. So, voluntarily it wasn't, you came here because you knew you didn't have many other options. But it's late, it's nine years late. There is no trace of the new judicial office, no relationship of jobs, no regulation of occupational health procedures, no protocols, no specific accident parts to cover, because the procedure is not established. There's no investment in new technologies, Lexnet is taken daily, workers can't work. Mr. Wheel, Amtega is a chiringuito, it seems a lie that you come here to tell this that tells us, because this is a matter that has been coming from many years. Justice has been transferred since the 1990s, Mr. Rueda, and you've been counseling for almost nine years, and we're where we are, and the responsibility is yours, not those people who are up there, not all those who are out there asking him to sit down and negotiate. It's exclusively yours, no one else's. You in these nine years, not a single measure that seeks to improve the public service of Justice to citizens, and it's true that in your appearance the thing has grown up until you reach that final allegory of demagogy, which was what you told us, but you didn't dare say here that those people who are up there have the citizens as hostages for their strike call, you didn't dare. He says that in the media, but here he doesn't dare repeat it, maybe in the second part he's able to do it. I don't know. The truth is that we're on the fourth week of strike, there are thousands of trials suspended, the judges hardly have any sentences to dictate because there are no more trials and no pending judgments left. And what are they going to do next? May 22nd probably go to the strike too, and the prosecutors. I'm going to read a sentence, which isn't from any radical union link: "Our position is that the path of dialogue has touched its end, we have to take some kind of measure because we have a feeling that they don't even notice us." That phrase, which could say any of those who are up there, or any of the workers in the public service of Justice, is a sentence of a prosecutor, who from then on is radical, and of course union bond, it's certainly not. That means that the problem of justice is an endemic problem, and you have some responsibility. No conditions, don't ask the strike to be suspended, because there's one thing, that when you're sitting in the armchair of the absolute majority, you might find it hard to understand that the thing isn't going that way. Mr. Rueda, allow me to give you a council: first I sit down to negotiate, and when I'm sitting, depending on how the negotiation evolves, I propose the suspension of strike, because there's a real decree of law that is 1977, of 4 March, that in its article 8 says, "During the strike, the strike committee and the employer, or their designated representatives, they must negotiate to reach an agreement, without prejudice that at any time the workers may end the strike.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It is preconstitutional, and it remains in force and regulates the right to strike; it speaks of the fact that negotiations, practically, are mandatory, and whether or not to continue the strike is no impediment to continuing the negotiation. Check the article and make a copy of President Feijóo, who we also believe needs a review. Representatives are willing to negotiate, but based on the unanimous agreement we reached in this House, of course, what one cannot say is something here and something else outside. Well, you're not, first the Employment Adviser, through the Galego Labour Relations Council, and then the Fatenda Councillor, through the General Director of the Public Service. The unions agree to meet with you to explain to them what the news has been since that December 19th last year, it's easy! Don't come here to tell us a calendar we all know, and that those of us who are in opposition are bored, and those people who are there are suffering from it in their families, because it's true, going off is not going to the hairdresser. One goes to strike, then, from the 1990s, for the first time in the history of Justice, and it doesn't go for pleasure, it goes because it's unhappy, it goes because this is a question of labour and wage discrimination, it's not a matter of money, and even if it was, strike is a constitutional right and any of them could go. [[Applause]] Counselor, if a royal decree preconstitutional, do not live at any other time and use that royal decree. The Minister of Justice is afraid of the comparative harm and the wage difference there is, and the only ones who don't seem to understand it are you. Well, the Minister of Justice already has enough that he's going to fall from now until May 22nd, he's got enough! You don't say that the conflict is politicized, because it has always been a political conflict, it has always been. Or aren't you politicians? What are they then, if they're not politicians? Aren't you a politician? Isn't the president of the board a politician? Or do you make yourself that phrase of "Do as I do, not get involved in politics," by dictator Franco? You will be political, and if you are political, this is a political conflict, of course. That's why we're here, because this is a citizen representation chamber, if we weren't here. [[Applause]] It is very ugly — said the President of the Union — that a wage conflict of a labour nature would be used to extract political revenue. It's not ugly to go with a mannequin and an impaluted white shirt saying that the fires will be extinguished. That's not ugly, that's elegant, probably. It's not ugly to use the four dead of 2006 for the fires to cast them in the face of what he was at that time president of the board. That's not ugly. [[Applause]] The ugly thing is to claim a fundamental right that protects the Constitution. Look, Counselor, this is the payroll of a Justice worker, it's twenty-two years of service, it's from group A2, earns less than 2,200 euros gross a month, about 30,000 euros gross a year. If that news is true that came out in some media, so you offered him 36,000 euros, he's up there and so he could come down; we make another document that signs that worker and that you say that everyone, like her, will charge 6,000 euros more a year, because he's signing right now, right now! It would be nice if, at the end of the show, you should go up and tell that worker that he's actually going to pay $6,000 more a year, because if that's the end of the matter. It's ugly to intoxicate public opinion, Counselor, the only thing you have to do is you're very easy: feel it, double the offer, start with unconditional representatives, nothing to suspend anything, read the Royal Decree of 1977.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u22	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u23	He feels humble, and he negotiates starting from the agreement that was reached here on December 19th last year, don't dilute everybody's money by paying nearly EUR 740,000 for a Everes Spain company, so he's done a study that had already been conducted by the Directorate-General of Justice if the general director of that matter. This is a matter of justice and dignity, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u25	Good morning, union representatives and colleagues and colleagues. Good morning, Mr. Rueda. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm going up to this stage today with some concern, Mr. Rueda, because I don't know if you're gonna answer me or ask me to stop defending the rights of citizens and citizens if I want to talk to you. If you do it with the workers and the workers of Justice, why don't you do it with us? Well, in fact, it is that they do it usually, they already do it, they are a government that does not govern, because they don't even meet what they approve of in this House, as with regard to the proposal by En Marea of December 4, 2017 on claims to remedy their shortcomings — as they have already been explained for years — those of their government in the field of justice, which were of consensus throughout this House, and which is mainly what moves this strike, not — as you said — are the economic reasons, but an improvement in the public service of Justice. That yes, in order to oppose the opposition, they do it like no one else, and anyone who takes it against them, as in this case, doesn't know what the word is to negotiate, because he's lying when he says he wants to negotiate, because they haven't withdrawn or marched back at any of the points that were asked of him. He's lying. And it's not so weird, because, after all, we're not listening to each other and they're asking us to shut up is also a common thing in their way of government, and in addition to the fact that we, besides representatives of citizenship, are still workers and workers of the Lexislavian Power and, therefore, they give us the treatment that they usually give to any worker or Protestant worker, who claims such absurd and unacceptable things for the People's Party charged as stolen, polished or unacquired rights, but we are legitimate. You, representatives of this People's Party charged in Galicia, do not fail to repeat that they have the absolute majority, an absolute majority that some of us consider to be duped by corruption, for example, suspected Naseiro, Gürtel, passing through Pokemon, Pikachu, Patos, Orchestra, Vendex, Champion, etc., etc., etc. That is irresponsible, Mr. Tellado, that is irresponsible, Mr. Miguel Tellado! In a week like this, on which the International Labour Women's Day is celebrated, a feminist, historical strike, Galician PP shows the structural machismo that inhabits it and does not admit a non-response, that's the truth. For your government it's what you want and when you want it. The art of consensus and dialogue from Mr. Rueda, and from which you draw your breast, is: "I make you a proposal, if you do not accept it is that you do not want to negotiate," and, "or take it or I will put the label of inflexibles, that you do not want to come to an agreement, that you are prejudicing citizenship"; when we are before a government so dialogueal and so honest that it does not abuse anything of the power of its absolute majority in the face of conflicts, nothing! Yes, the members of Galicia's accused party, of which, as it is already sadly famous, his former secretary of the organization, Pablo Crespo, shared with them pasta from the entrepreneurs — all in accordance with his version. "All be said," as Mr. Evolo told Mr. Feijóo in Salvados, who could have already experienced what it is to do interviews outside the TVG. Do not give up any of you, none of you who are there, no euro of your privileges or your salaries! We have seen the new self-sustainment — that you deny — of the salaries of the members of the Government — here we have — here you are!, 9.7% against staff payrolls, which, in fact, many are around 1,000 and few euros. Indeed, but you say it must be a good luck that we now have a model so precarious that we have to conform the workers after their brilliant economic management to survive with 1,000 euros. And they do that without counting that they can't distinguish the figures, by abusing the lying method Feijóo. But of course, as long as you raise the salary by 7%, you refuse to raise the workers of Justice, which will not be the last to miss the money; while the members of the Low Government cost of Mr. Feijóo spend need or fall into social exclusion, as their companion Esperanza Aguirre, who says it doesn't reach the end of the month. It's a scandal to want to put the mantra that Justice officials are on strike on a purely economical issue. Those abusers, who mostly charge little more than 1,000 euros. What a shame — as is the country and what has happened in this country — that they use that kind of argument! It's shocking! As a public servant, I am deeply ashamed of what they did to the public administrations. I am deeply ashamed. Well, look, in addition to this, as a Welsh woman, a public servant and a member of the Lexislativa right now, I have to tell you -- just like the workers and workers of Justice -- that it is not. And they have every right to tell you that not to your proposal, because it's unacceptable, they're lying and it's an insult to your intelligence. The Greeks and the Greeks have been on strike for four weeks in Justice and the families of these workers and workers by passing the fact that no employee of that salary can afford — if it is not such an unfair claim — regardless of wages almost a month. Maybe you do, but the milleurist workers don't. That's reality, they don't do it for a potato, and they're — they're — they're perfectly conscious — just like us — that the Judiciary is one of the three basic powers in our country. They don't want to mislead people that this isn't a private company strike, it's a strike from one of the three powers that guarantee our democracy and equality of citizens before the law, along with the protection of abuses. That's why it's so important for you, for the defendant's party, for you, Mr. Rueda, and for the Feijóo Government, bend it and beat it. And that's why PP doesn't care about the consequences, because the strike isn't the fault of the workers, the strike is yours, Mr. Rueda. It is as a result of Mr. Feijóo that allows you this mismanagement. Because rights have historically won by fighting for them, yes, something that you in your DNA haven't impregnated. They gain the right to strike, a constitutional right that has cost our mothers and grandparents a lot, a right like freedom of expression which irritates you deeply when you exercise it, especially when it goes against your interests or exposes your shame and lies. As we now see in the book of Farina, which is why it bothers the People's Party of Galicia so much. The reality is, you're the one who's interested in this strike, and you don't care that there are more than 10,000 judgments at this time. Judges, for example, batterers or men who don't pay their children's pensions. Yes, Mr. Rueda, on the working woman's week in Galicia, no trials are held against abusers in the country. It doesn't matter that compensation for dismissals to honest workers who are completely unjust after their legislation, who vote for the tides of Podemos, is not going to be that group of evil people who do not accept the absolute majority of the People's Party. They don't mind me continuing the strike in order to impose his iron hand. Because they think it's bad that they won't be able to put their lies through TVG, as they always do. But they don't know the lies anymore! And so cheerfully, as you do — that I am a happy party — they can consolidate the precariousness of the Judiciary and thus achieve the final victory of friendly capitalism and put back the yoke with arrows or without arrows — although in this case surely with arrows — on the honored Greek people. If the employees of Justice and the Judiciary are precarious, what are the health care workers going to say?, educators?, self-employed?, pensioners? Yes, Mr. Rueda, the pensioners, who now too if they are thrown out! They're from the group of evil people who don't respect their absolute majority. You don't want to talk to the employees and employees of Justice because you want to send a warning to the navigators: this is the patriarchate, the patriarchate is Mr. Vito Feijóo, and the councillor is you, Mr. Rueda! And your proposal to resolve the conflict of Justice is not to negotiate a consensus proposal, that's what we want as government, as we want and whenever we want. That's why I'm going to tell you the same thing that I told you at the beginning, it's been four weeks since the pride and dignity of the workers and workers of justice: not to their lies and this new scam. We don't accept your blackmail, Mr. Rueda, we don't buy your lies. Less than anyone employed and employed by the public, who knows perfectly what they're doing, attacking with the excuse of the crisis, and from their absolute majority and the irony control of the media, the public model, with a total failure of scruples, moral and ethical. His absolute majority, with the doping of corruption, is not a blank check to convert Galicia into a saving who may not arrive at the end of the month, to be unable to pay for the receipts of light or escape from the rice or pasta diet. These millionaires, who don't even know that in Galicia there are a lot of people who don't charge 1,000 euros, because they're in their armchairs. In the meantime, you continue with your usual salaries and without giving up even one privilege, not one! Last month they've faced the dignity of the health personnel and they've lied again and tried to slander them. They face pensioners, they face many productive sectors, also the Judiciary, right now the workers of Justice. Because against his blackmail not to speak, or swallow with my agreement or no agreement, there are the rights to strike and protest, for which — I repeat — our mothers and grandmothers fought. So -- and to finish -- one more thing. Before he fills his mouth with the whole face of the world, saying how much it will cost the Greeks and the Greeks the salary rise of the employees of Justice, who apart from it has no reason, because in the 500 euros he didn't say that he encompasses IT from all the staff of the Galician administrations, which is a right that they stole and which is scandalous with the excuse of the crisis. But he didn't speak, in that demagogy of what he did gala and in that attempt to continue precariously and justifying the precariousness of the labour model, dividing the workers between the public and the private — which is indecent — tell them how much it costs the Greeks and the Greeks the corruption of the accused party, and here in Galicia. Tell the Greeks how much it costs! And that the corrupt ones who went and follow in their ranks, here and in the state, and their business friends to start and talk about negotiating and consensus, and all that honesty and management of what they stand for, because they work in which all these corrupt ones return the stolen, over all those of their party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Mrs. Santos, I ask you to remove the expression, which is an expression that has mafia connotation, from Mr. Vito Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u27	It was a joke!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u28	No, no, no, no kidding. He's retired. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] But you take it back? Do you take the expression away? [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Then I'll take it back and have a call to order. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, let's keep going. No one here is allowed to be offended. As far as I know, there are no mobsters in this Parliament. If there's any mobster in jail. [[Murmurs.]] Not here, no mobsters. [[Murmurs.]] Neither on this side nor on this side. Because if there are them, in prison. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's continue... silence! [[Murmurs.]] Don't get into this now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's continue with the plenary. Mr Pazos, spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u29	I hope you don't intend to remove my freedom of expression, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u30	Go to justice, please. To the appearance. Mr. Losada is not in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u31	I'm going to try, Mr. President, you're absolutely right. Because we're going to see if we can try and talk about a mouse of justice. I have a huge respect for justice, so much so that I decided that my professional activity — like some of the people who preceded me in speaking — had developed in that area. In my case — and I am sure that not you too — that decision responds to a vocation to collaborate with a fundamental activity for the very existence of any democratic society and for which I — and you are sure — feel a huge respect. And that's what I want to talk about today in my speech, about respect. With regard to institutions, with regard to justice and its workers, with regard to citizens. But above all, I hope I can talk about the truth. Mr Vice-President, I would like to thank you for coming to this House to report on the actions that have taken place since your advice so that we can have a timely understanding of what has happened so far in connection with the conflict with the representatives of the workers of Justice — which I take advantage of to welcome — which is the current situation on this conflict and which are the prospects for the future for your resolution. I thank the detailed storyteller who collapsed during his intervention, and I thank his willingness to appear, despite what has been repeated these days and what has been repeated today as well. I mean that usual mantra of opposition groups about the alleged reluctance of government members to appear in the House, and that once again we had the opportunity to hear right here today. They say the vice president appears forced, "draged," I think it was the expression. An argument as repeated as false, but we have to clear it up. For here those who so often accuse the Government of disrespecting Parliament should be a little more respectful of the reality of what happens here. Few executives have appeared as much as that of Alberto Núñez Feijóo: in the matter of legislation — this legislation of only one and a half years — he did it on 7 occasions, on one of them in twenty-four hours, in which it took 20 days later — twenty days after he requested the opposition. Frankly, today the vice president of the Government comes to respond to the strike of the workers of Justice eight days after you requested it, eight days! I don't think the opposition should complain either about the appearances that took place, or about their speed, or about those that didn't agree with. Because it's also true that some didn't agree. Ladies and gentlemen, do you imagine that the attendance was celebrated by the Economic Councillor to explain the segregation of the Ferroatlantic power stations? That embarrassing deal we had with Mr. Villar Mir to sell Galicia? Can you imagine it was celebrated? [[Murmurs.]] Do you think we should reconsider? Or should we also reconsider that attendance that was requested by the Rural Councillor to request the head of the Director General of Forest Management for alleged irregularities in the recruitment of air vehicles against fire? Should we reconsider that request for appearance? [[Murmurs.]] Remember that today, who have filled their speeches with justice, find, perhaps, a gap for justice in their consciences. Ladies and gentlemen, with all your affections! They stop protesting about shows that were not held. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You thank the ridiculous cries we've saved them and, above all, they exercise justice today and apologize to those who defamed you so freely. That would be a sample of the institutions. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Getting deep into what he's dealing with us, I don't know if there's a barrier to measuring the love each one of us feels for justice. But, on the other hand, I believe that if there is an objective barrier to verify the degree of commitment of rulers to justice. The vice president mentioned in advance, during his intervention, a number of investments that demonstrate the commitment of the current government to the improvement of justice in our community: Tabacalera, in the Coruña; new judicial buildings of Ourense and Santiago; improvement of Ferrol; City of Justice, in Vigo; new building in Pontevedra; new judgment of Tui... and so a long et cetera until reaching a planned investment of more than 100 million euros to improve judicial infrastructures in Galicia. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the political commitment to public services is not measured by participating in competitions or by making major speeches, it is measured by budgetary commitment. And that's why I'm surprised to hear interventions today from those who have had a chance in the past to show their commitment to justice: the Budget of Justice of the year 2008, 99 million euros; the Budget of Justice of the year 2009, 105 million euros; the Budget of Justice of the year 2018, 146 million euros. That's the degree of commitment of everyone to justice, a degree of measurable and quantifiable commitment. You had an additional 2,000 million worldwide budget at the Galician Summit, but you were devoting 40 million less to Justice than the current government, which you intend to teach. And lessons not, ladies and gentlemen, neither in the matter of budgets nor in the matter of Justice, nor much less in the matter of political coherence, because of such a fact that they cannot give one, lords, or one. [[Applause]] We just went through one of the deepest and most complex crises in our recent history, a crisis that led to the failure of planning, a stubborn denial of reality and the performance of a deeply irresponsible left-wing government. It wasn't easy to overcome that situation, we needed very hard measures, we had to overcome very complicated moments and a huge collective effort of our society as a whole. But, fortunately, that effort begins to bear fruit and it is understandable that now that we see the light at the end of the tunnel, demands arise from different groups. It is a logical consequence of the improvement of the general economic situation, and it is also legitimate for us to raise these demands. The different thing is that some very concrete union organization takes advantage of this circumstance to try to become the demolition squad against the German Government, using workers and citizens for pure ends that nothing has to do with the union claim. If they go along that path, I wish them a very poor future; instead, if we agree that the improvement of the economic situation must gradually be transferred to society; but it must be done in a fair manner, without the demands of a few people limiting the possibilities of society as a whole, in terms of health or social services, in the productive sectors, etc., etc.; we all have the right to enjoy the improvement of the economic situation. But for this to happen, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to establish some kind of logical criterion. I don't — I can confess — what's yours, sometimes I don't think they have any, sometimes I think the problem is the opposite, they have too many. It begins to become obvious that you lack any conviction of your own, your opinion is exactly that of the last collective with which you met, that's what they value. It doesn't matter the cost of the claim, it doesn't matter what consequences it has, it doesn't matter whether it matches or contradicts the previous one; if it's used to wear out the government, it's worth it to you. We believe that the Greeks wait and deserve something better than their representatives. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the effort you are making on board to reach an agreement that will put an end to the strike. We just heard it: 12 meetings, concrete offers of each of the points of negotiation, 4 increases and ups, the last of which places the autonomic complement above ten, eleven and thirteen autonomous communities depending on the category of work. I understand that you can disagree with the offer, what I don't understand is that you can pretend to improve it by not sitting at the table. That's why I think that would be reasonable, that we had all done a string exercise and asked for the table of trade union organizations. But of course, that's reasonable: you're more creative in this matter. Mr Bará has told us some interesting things. The first is that, after years of defending Galician sovereignty and self-government, it now proposes that the wages of the Greek officials, who were previously adopted in Madrid, are now fixed in Catalonia; with that it is all arranged. We understand that we should take into account the real possibilities of Galicia and not those of the outside world. But I also want to answer something you've insinuated. The first, look, we do have to make certain recognitions, among others, that the smuggling in Galicia was usual. See if it would be customary for some former nationalist counselor who has even been accused — right? — of smuggling, of smuggling drugs. Yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Murmurs.]] See if the smuggling theme was normal. And I also find it regrettable that you come here to accuse us of alarming the population. No, Mr. Bará. The people of Greece and Spain were afraid of some people with whom you like to take pictures, those people who were afraid, they gave real panic to the whole of Galician society, not the Government of Galicia. I think you should put the problem in its proper terms, we're not talking about a refund of the theft, we're talking about a legitimate request for wage improvement, not for the recovery of lost rights, for the improvement of salary. And I can't admit that demagogy of Feijóo's salary. Feijóo's salary dropped in solidarity when the staff members' salaries dropped and rose in exactly the same proportion as the staff members were also raised. You're not here to teach any salary lessons. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, since they're so interested, I'll tell them something. Look, Mr. Feijóo's salary is published, eh!: 73,400 euros. Mr. Touriño's salary: 84,659. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr Quintana's salary: 79,548. [[Murmurs.]] He hired the vice president of his government more than the current president of the board. Don't come and teach demagogic lessons, please. [[Murmurs.]] It is also the question of Mrs Vilan, who has described her lack of discretion, because today Mrs Vilan has discovered that we have a problem since the 1990s with Justice; it is interesting! Because a few months ago — four — during the budget process, that problem turns out that she solved it with zero euros of improvement in the remuneration of... it must be that since the 1990s she didn't find out either. Now you say double the offer. Hey! How much is it? Where does it come from? Where are you going to get it from? He had the opportunity to show it in budget processing. We know what he gave: the silence by answer — the usual, on the other hand —. That's a coherent thing: every time you have a chance, it's said to try to miss the Vice President of the Board: "prepotent", " proud", "high"... finally the usual. We already know that modesty is one of the characteristics that best define it. Finally I leave the Lords of the Tide. They have to be recognized for their creativity. In fact, they were so creative in their arguments until now, that today -- they say "sisters"; they may feel included -- in the debate of Justice you had to participate because, probably, their predecessor has passed from the original, it has become creative; it has even developed a theory in which the strike of the workers of Justice was part of the People's Party's strategy to delay the holding of judgments related to corruption. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Take it now! I suppose for you the conviction for prevarication of the former socialist mayor of Ourense, the socialist councillor of Ourense, the councillor of the BNG of Ourense and the general director of the BNG were those minimum services that they considered to be abusive. I understand. You even dared to resign from the vice president, if he is unable to lead and manage this conflict. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you apply the same approach in that group, you have two days left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u33	...in the armchair, two days. They're worth everything, gentlemen, they really are worth everything. [[Applause]] I'm done now, President, making a call to bear... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I was saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u34	Silence, please, silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Santos, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u35	He said a Catalan badger, Mr. Francesc Cambó, said there were two ways to get to disaster: one, asking for the impossible; another, delaying the inevitable. I ask the trade union organizations today to abandon these two positions: they do not ask for improvements that cannot be transferable to all citizens and to all officials of this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u37	...and, above all, no longer delay the inevitable, which is that you sit back at the negotiating table to try to resolve this conflict. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Replica by the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I said at first, when I greeted the union representatives, that I was pleased that they were here to see what there was. I am very glad that they were live witnesses of what was said here, both by Mrs. Santos and Mrs. Vilan; I don't know if Mr. Bará expressly said so, but it became clear that this is a political conflict and that it has been politicized from the beginning. And so, of course, whatever happens. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure I haven't come here to talk about anything else that's trying to close the conflict with the workers of Justice; you're not, you're in your political conflict, which is what they're interested in, and so, when they went to talk to you, then they didn't do anything in the assumptions, because that was to solve a problem for them, and it's not about solving a problem for them, it's about solving their problem: that I'm an opposition that's not capable of having ideas. And of course, whatever happens, and so come the qualifications of "chule", "prepotent", "draged"; it's a very good way to dedicate myself, a very good way to try to close a conflict between two parts. You helping, not throwing wood into the fire. Then, of course, you have ten minutes and I understand that now, in this audience, you speak on behalf of your group and you haven't asked me a single question of Justice in all this legislation, for of course, ten minutes is very big and you have to talk about other things. And then we have to talk about Salvados, we have to talk about Farina, we have to talk about Gürtel, we have to talk about Esperanza Aguirre, and the minutes are going on, because ten minutes to talk about solving the Justice conflict is a lot, Mrs. Santos, it's a lot; then we have to talk about other things. You have to talk about the government payroll, my payroll... of course, less than yours, Mrs. Santos; you make more money than me, you have to make it clear, you have to make it clear. [[Applause]] If you want to get into a payroll debate, I don't think the gentlemen who are up there manage anything at all... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u40	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u41	But you charge more. And that will hardly solve the workers of Justice in Galicia, who come here to see if the conflict can be closed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you spend more than ten minutes talking to him about other things: Mr Bará talks about smugglers, he talks about things that are useless. If you think you're insulting me, insulting the People's Party, insulting the Government of Galicia, you're going to solve this conflict, you're making a lot of mistakes; but it's not what I say, it's not what I perceive, that you're perceived by the workers, that, at best, I'm sure not all of you, but most unions think, legitimately, that what you have to do is come here trying to close this conflict. And, therefore, if you close your intervention by not wanting to withdraw the qualification from "don Vito," it's because you want what remains of your appearance is that, because you think it suits you, your politicizing mentality, but that's no good for the workers of Justice, Mrs. Santos. Tell me what it's like to say that you stand out for that, for talking about eight minutes of things that have nothing to do with the conflict of Justice, and then two minutes, because, man, something would put you after two years of legislation to try to speak of Justice, because I suppose, if everything was so bad, you would have ever again addressed the Government in that sense. He didn't, and it's also good to know, he's also good to know. Mr Bará begins by speaking, in the first intervention, to try to resolve the workers' conflict by asking me if I feel smuggled, speaking of the Mordaza Law...; of Justice, more slightly, Mr Bará. I'm left with one thing, because I'm trying to focus on the subject and try to see if we're able to solve a conflict, which is between an administration and the workers of Justice, who want and pose a wage raise -- the legitimate approach -- we said from the beginning that it was necessary to go up, what we disagreed about is in the figures, and there's still a big discrepancy. But that's the conflict, that's what we should talk about. Now, you tell me you don't conceive how I don't hear the unions, don't conceive how I'm not able to reach an agreement with them, to listen to their legitimate demands, that we're not going anywhere. Look, Mr Bará: for not going any further, because I went back to the chronology to explain the whole origin of this conflict, and not beyond the last few months, in the last months of 2017, we're going to do the same with you, because it tells me that the key is to listen to the unions. Negotiation of the budgets of the Pontevedra Town Hall, which I think you were the one who negotiated them. Hey, presentation of the negotiating table with the unions, the budgets, the working conditions that will be reflected in the budgets. All the unions, including the IGC — to whom you paid a snack, even even so — voted against, voted against. And you know why, Mr. Bará? [[Murmurs.]] A lack of dialogue — to you — failure to negotiate — to impose extra hours on force because you have not sufficiently increased the staff — to yourself —; systematic denial of days by own affairs, even though you recognize that there is a template service — to you. Mr Bará, you don't mind, they voted against everything, they didn't dialogue anything and they didn't agree. And you're here talking about union representation and listening to the unions? It seems to me very well, I have to say; but I say the same to you, because what you cannot say is that you do one that is not willing to do in your house, and you must know that too, Mr Bará, and you must be quite clear; at least, to have some legitimacy. [[Applause]] And, Mrs Vilán, in fact, I made a mistake in the figure. Look, I don't know if, indeed, it's a great responsibility for me to be here and to know that many workers are listening, not only union representatives, but many workers and workers who are knowing if their conflict is going to be solved. And so, yes, maybe I'm nervous, maybe I'm wrong with the figures. They're actually not figures per month, they're figures per year. But I also say: it was a mistake, I know it perfectly because it's in this painting. What's less apologizing is ignorance, not knowing, is to come here without knowing the figures. You have just said that the Minister of Catalonia is absolutely amazed by labour discrimination and wage inequality in Galicia. Do you know how much they charge in the Ministry's territory, Mrs. Vilán? Do you know that there are 115 differences between the proposal, which is considered ridiculous by some union representatives, and what is the Ministry charging for? And you come to tell me that the Minister of Catalonia is surprised? What happens is that you don't know what they charge in the Ministry's territory, you come here and you don't know the figures, Mrs. Vilán. Here's the difference: one thing is being nervous and wrong and the other thing is not knowing and coming here and getting a lot of faces, which is what you did. Learn the figures; if you don't know them, then I can give them. In the Ministry's territory they are now far below what is being charged with the proposal of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u42	Quiet, quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u43	They were even below before the climb planning was made, which had to be done. But you don't know these figures, and that worries me a lot more, you can't. How can you say, if not, what did you say about the Ministry? So let's try to focus on the topic, try not to politicize to try to reach a solution. Tell me there are no investments in justice. Well, the buildings must have made them air. And that nothing has been done, that no improvement has been made. We've been raising 33% of Justice's budget in the last ten years. There are almost 200 new squares, one before and one after in the field of new technologies. Of course there's a lot of way to go. But whoever's on trial tells him he has nothing to do with the computer park and even the new technologies, the implantation he's doing, with which he was a few years ago, and it's also logical. They've invested money from all the Greeks and Greeks, spent years, and they've got to go. Of course, if you come here to deny the biggest one and say that nothing has been done and that everything is a disaster, it's very difficult for us to reach any agreement, Mrs Vilán. Look, all this time you didn't ask me any questions either, except when the strike occurred. It seems very bad to you when I tell you that they say they're very worried about the administration of justice, but then they have a chance every two weeks, and they never do anything. We're not going to be very bad with Justice staff! You tell me I don't care about anything, I don't have any relationship. Look, all this time your group didn't ask me any specific questions, until a few months ago, about the relationship between the Union and the staff of the Greek justice. For something it will be! What's the matter, that everything was all right, that he didn't care absolutely nothing, that he gave everything the same or that the important thing is politicizing? Maybe that's it, and so we're not going to come to an agreement that solves — which is what I'm doing here — the conflict we have between the officials and officials of the Administration of Justice and the Council of Galicia; the conflict, the disagreement or call it what they want, but of course we have to close it. And yes, look -- I told him -- he said, you're not going to dare say here that citizens, in the end, are hostages. Look, I say again, of course I have to say, that citizens are being badly damaged, also workers and workers. I'm perfectly aware of what it is supposed to be or what it must be supposed not to be charging for being on strike. And I'm also aware of the follow-up. I know there are also differences in the follow-up to the Galician Union, which is done by an objective system, and the follow-up to the unions. But, in any case, follow-up is high, and we are conscious, and that gives rise to a lack of basic services. So that's what I know perfectly well, and I know that those who are injured for not receiving services first are the citizens, that's why they thought, and I put it in the name of the Greek Government, that suspension, which is not confusing of strike, while we're negotiating. Because look, it's not about asking: if the citizens don't suffer prejudice, Rueda won't sit down. No, no, Rueda, the Galician Union, and I, in my person, what we want is that citizens stop suffering those prejudices and we negotiate. That's what we're thinking. You should also think about it; you should not, cheerfully, say the things you say. And look, we're not answering any of the three of something fundamental, because they have no answer, because they don't know what to say, and it's very hard to explain, I agree; that's what I understand. I told them -- and I say it again in this second intervention -- that I hope now, in the last intervention, at least give an explanation, not to me, to the people up there, to the people who are out there and to the people who are listening to this -- and, of course, not only to the workers and workers of the Administration of Justice, but also to the citizens in general, who pay their taxes. When you met with the workers' representatives, the conflict was already open and they had the opportunity to move their matches to meet the demands. You were telling me that with 1,000 euros it was already fixed. I say to him, what did you pose in the budget — Euro — is it capable of telling the face that it was already solved with? So, if you like, I'll take the floor. If you believe that with what the Socialist Party did, with what the BNG did and with what The Tides of Podemos did -- you have to recognize that, four euros a month, something else was -- that's all right, with those incorporations that they made to the budget... do you think that you can close the conflict? You think it's serious to tell them that? Do you think it's good to tell them that yes and then to disagree, how did they disagree with so many things of justice during these earlier legislations, and so they say what they say? Let's be serious, Mrs. Vilan, let's be serious, Mrs. Santos, let's be serious, Mr. Bará. This isn't about politics, this isn't about the People's Party. If you want, do it, but you think there's a conflict here to close, and when you think only about your party, it's very difficult to close it. The Galician Union and the People's Party are not doing it, we want to close this conflict and we will do everything possible to make it so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u44	Thank you, Vice President. Round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u45	Mr. Rueda, we regret that you come here today to miss an opportunity to exercise as an advisor, to be really consistent, with that tender hand. What we really see is that he comes here as a spokesperson for the People's Party and opposes the opposition and the unions. Because, of course, what you came here to say is that, after a month of strike, it's the opposition's fault. The government has no blame, and it also comes here as a spokesman for the Pontevedra People's Party. They must not have much confidence in Mr. Moreira. I don't know if you intend to be the candidate for the next elections, but you come here to dedicate -- and you say that others talk about other things -- two minutes or a half to talk about labour policy and the working relationships of the Pontevedra Council. Leave Mr. Moreira to work, which seems to be changing political lines now. What we ask you to do, Mr. Rueda, is meet with the unions, so easy! You've been a counselor for nine years, and you've never met with the union representation of the workers of Justice. This is a symptom, this is an anomaly. What's your problem with meeting? You now have a great opportunity, when this debate is over, this audience has the union representatives. You meet them, you really store your hand, you actually store bridges and you don't sow winds to collect next storms. The tending hand isn't really the lies that you've repeated here again. You say it's a claim exclusively economic, wage. That's actually one of the main points of negotiation, but it's not the only one; it's a negotiation that has to do with the return of wage and labour rights. If you don't understand this, you don't understand anything. What they want is to end discrimination, discrimination that they suffer with respect to other communities in employment and wage matters. And of course there is no agreement because the Government's offer is insufficient, because that offer, which is a different offer — and you know a lot about the different agreements — is an agreement for 2020, but zero for 2018. It is insufficient because it will continue to maintain discrimination — I told you here — at 9% with regard to the average, and this assumes that wages are not increased by other agreements, in the rest of the communities. Look, you say, Mr. Rueda, that we haven't made any amendments to the budget. If this is the problem, tomorrow itself, put day and time and we sit on a table and we agreed on a budgetary change to solve this problem. If that is the problem, because, of course, you say — part of which is not approved by any amendment —... If that's the problem, if that's really the problem, of modifying the budget, tomorrow we even meet and we approve a budgetary change that gives solution to this conflict. There you have a serious and responsible offer of negotiation by BNG. I also remind you that other points of the agreement, wage discrimination for disease, the reinforcement squares and the amortized squares, are still unresolved, are still unsolved, because union representation has asked them for documentation and they haven't given it yet. So we have to solve these issues. And besides the lies, there are insults, there are attacks, there are contempts, and here they come about wages. By the way, speaking of wages, Mr. Pazos — I will make no further reference to his intervention — one thing is clear to him: the BNG collects all of them in A, exclusively in A, nothing more than A. You talk a lot about lessons of coherence. [[Applause]] You can also teach us a lesson here about corruption, because this, of course, is what you know most about the People's Party. Insults, attacks and contempt, Mr. Rueda. That's how conflicts are not solved. Mr. Feijóo spoke of antidemocratic tics. You guys have been trying over these weeks to put society on top of the unions and the workers and workers of Justice, calling them selfish, calling them insolidarian, and calling them privileged. The Director General of Public Service — so it's understood that they asked for their exit from negotiation — was in a strategy of provocation, telling them to leave Galicia, to leave for emigration. This is not, of course, of receipt, this is not hand-held; this is a provocation. And as I've already told you, more and more sectors and groups are also demonstrating their discomfort, which is a social cry. Therefore, we ask you, Mr. Wheel to be sensitive, that you really have an opportunity today to hold your hand, and we ask you here, now, to set day, time and place for negotiation. You have here this gallery at your disposal to make this offer and to set day and time for negotiation, not with closed proposals, not with conditions, a negotiation without blackmail. We understand it has to be mediated. This conflict must be resolved by external mediation, which we insist on, Mr. Rueda, which must be the Galician Labour Relations Council. Tell me here — I ask you the question — what is the problem with mediation of the Galician Labour Relations Council? Why can't you mediate the Galego Labour Relations Council? Tell me here what's the reason, give me an answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u47	I think you have made it clear to Mr. Paz in his intervention. He introduced this as a pulse and came to say that, if they give in, they'll go after many other collectives, and you don't want to open this Pandora box, which is the box of the return of wage and labor rights stolen from the workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u48	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u49	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, I would like to congratulate you, because if you and your government really want to hold the hands of the workers' representatives and want to close this conflict, you have chosen the Member with the most capacity for dialogue in this House. [[Applause]] It's good that Mr. Pazos greets the representatives of the workers, because this is the first time he's seen them. Moreover, the commitment of a Member in this House, or of a Member, is measured by the number of initiatives he does in relation to a matter, and I think that Mr Pazos rightly does not have many. And by the way — and I am sorry for Mr. Moisés Rodríguez — where is Tui's judicial building?, where is Pontevedra's judicial building, which is still unfinished?, where is Vigo's? They were already planned in the judicial infrastructure plan 2010, 2013, 2014 and 2015, and we're in 2018. I'm talking about my province and, of course, progress is not the one you want to tell us, Mr. Rueda. Indeed, there was an agreement in December, and that agreement in Parliament, which is a body representing citizens, who vote through elections to the Galician Parliament, is a political issue. Indeed, we are politicians, you too, and the President of the Board too, and this is resolved with politics, which is the art of resolving conflicts through dialogue. In this is politics; politics with capital letters, of course, because there is another kind of policy that does not consist of it. In Parliament we call on the Government of Greece, you, to respond to the demands of the unions, which represent the staff of Justice, opening up a period of permanent dialogue. That's what the motion is about: opening a period of permanent dialogue. And I'm just going to tell you about two points that are on that motion: "Improving the salaries of the employees of the Administration of Justice with respect to the average of the rest of autonomous communities." First, it's not 19, it's 17, and there's a document written by you where you put 19. They're 17, 17 in Spain. But there's no 17 justice, there's 13, because there's 12 justice transferred to the autonomous communities, and the territory of the Ministry of Justice. So there are 12 transfers and one more, there are 13 payers in Spain, not 17. And it's not the same thing as being 9 in relation to 17 -- I don't tell you 19 -- that in relation to 13. The difference is great, counselor, and precisely because of that lie and that deception you wanted to make, the workers' representatives disagreed. Then there's that report from the Professor of Administrative Rights, who we'd like to know where he is, because you met in October and there's not yet... at the Galego Labour Relations Council that man went to a meeting and he was willing to make a report, but he's not yet. You could take advantage of it, ask him now, and raise him up to the union representatives, who have them here, so they can make photocopies and give it to the workers. And then there's the 100 percent increase in the payouts of cases of replacements of a superior body, demanding the Government of the State to reform the state legislation. This was December 19th. What have you demanded from the Ministry of Justice, which today is March 6th? Tell him. When you get out here, say it. Say: we demand this, this, this and this and we call the minister 75 times by phone, because I'm sure it will, perhaps, convince us. Mr. Rueda, you are not the champions of the defence of citizens; citizens are not hostages; they are free people, who vote who they want and have chosen to rule you, who rule the People's Party. If you were so worried, in the Office of Citizenship Care, you would include minimum services, and there are no services, and that's where battered women are treated, for example. Well, there are no minimum services. Apparently, you're not so worried. And it's a shame he admitted he was wrong in the number. Four times, he said it four times before. Maybe it wasn't that you were wrong, maybe if no one noticed, it would be for the media that you offer 1,000 euros a month. [[Applause]] The Ministry of the Interior is offering civilian guards and police officers an average of 650 euros per month. I suppose the officers of Justice — we suppose — will be no less — neither will they be less, but they will be no less — than the civilian guards and the police. How much would that rise of 650 euros a month with the recession situation — terrible!, because it was all Zapatero's fault — in the government of the state on its day? And today how much would it involve in all government officials? Well, apply it here proportionally, and maybe it's exactly the same. You talk to the Minister of the Interior and tell him, that maybe the accounts can match each other. There are three options, advisor, apply and use those EUR 740,000 for that company, which does a job that had to do its department, or either use those additional EUR 400 million that we proposed in the amendments to its budget. The budget does it yourself, Counselor of Justice, because we do not rule, you rule. There were amendments by the Socialist Parliamentary Group which involved an additional EUR 400 million, and that's not what it gives you to pay for the rise to the rights of Justice, is that you get all the workers from any public service in Galicia and you already give them to pay to everyone, all the auctions they ask for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u51	And he even has another option, and that's the last one. I don't govern, and, without ruling, we need things in the Socialist Parliamentary Group; much more if they're going to happen to you, they're ruling! Apply the money you have in the Contingency Fund, which is for continence like this, because a strike requires you to use the Contingency Fund. If not, why are they going to use it? Because the situation is chaos right now in justice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u53	Good again. Members of Parliament and Members, because I want to start, in addition, within this week so important for women. Mr. Paz, I don't feel included in the term "lords." Then they'll show again the DNA of the People's Party, because in inclusive language, as you will know, there's a regulation that needs to be complied with. [[Applause]] Then, I want to keep talking to the vice president, who said he's very offended, supposedly, because I insult them. Of course, given that your group and Mr. Feijóo are the ones who have the record in insulting the opposition and all of us, the truth is that it makes me rather funny that you don't accept the jokes, as we have to accept your jokes regularly, and many times of the literal phrases of you. Of course we have to talk about politics, and in politics we have to talk about corruption and we have to talk about wages, of course we do. And I'll tell you one thing, for two questions. Look, with regard to payrolls, I, as a public employee, have left public employment to be political, of course I tell you that this is a political issue, and one of the reasons that distinguishes us from some of you people, who made us stay in this new era of politics, is that we do not accept that they have destroyed the public administration, after all the corrupt festival that is playing their party as an alleged party, while you did not renounce a single wage privilege. And we participate and are part of political projects in which you know we give part of our salary, and they know perfectly well because besides the voice of Galicia and the TVG, they only talk about the prayers of our group, when they don't talk about their salaries. They don't talk about their salaries. That's right, we don't finance neither the bank nor the companies, which are then in corruption scandals. And why is it important in this field? Because if you were to fight corruption and return theft, there would be leftover money for health care, for education, for justice, not to prejudge public employment and not to prejudge all these workers and workers. And of course this is an ideological and political claim, of course it is. And you know it perfectly well. He says I didn't ask him questions here in this plenary. Well, what do you want me to say? If I have as a partner and a voicer in the group to one of this country's eminences in matters of justice, I understand that you generate discomfort, like Mr. Feijóo, because he knows a lot more than you do. But the administration won't give me lessons, neither management, and I have examples like the Madrid Town Hall, which left him totally torn apart by corruption and mismanagement. That's where the money comes from. That's where the money from the defendant's party comes from. Moreover, that Mr Moreira explains to you that I, in the committee — should inform you, and Mrs Prado, who is already protesting there — usually make proposals and questions of justice, which even Mr Moreira is disturbed by, and is always protesting and saying why we have carried out so many initiatives of justice, even repeated. But don't worry, we're going to talk about specific issues, because you missed it. You say you need to find a solution, hold your hand as the German Government. Well, he doesn't have the conditions to negotiate how to suspend the strike and sit on the negotiating table. If you were aware of the problem, you would be negotiating and holding bridges -- those bridges that so much like Mr. Feijóo in the Pearls -- and not putting your head in the hole and wanting to put the blame on his political inaction to the workers, who claim rights. He says they've put in bids and they've improved them, they've expanded the points of the negotiation. The workers' representatives have done their best to reach a negotiation with you, and it's not true what you're saying they've expanded anything, it's not true. During the negotiation they took steps back. At every offer the Board has made, the strike committee has objected. He's lying. Parliament has also unanimously called on us to negotiate, and there has also been a recognition of content that is being breached, that you have voted and that is being breached. But they're telling lies here, and it's also in this Parliament's Minutes! On the U.S. bids announced at the Bureau, he cheats on the figures offered, because he doesn't explain what amounts are to 2021, he doesn't explain that in 2018 there are zero euros of increments, although In Marea already in the 2018 budgets — which he says we don't do our job — proposed a whole amendment to recognize demands for a value of 500 million, which was also recognised in the partials, and which he already recognized these budget increases and improvements in the field of justice. Besides, he's still ignoring the autonomic map. Euskadi and Nafarroa disappeared, and the untransferred territory appeared to be torn apart. When you mark digits, it deceives you without specifying where they come from or how long they are termed. The increase is four years and the amount of 1,000 euros is not even annual. He's directly lying, and he's wrong, as you've already recognised here. Junta cheated, announced some services that later published others, because the initials were scandalous, as in the case of the Fosgrada. And we could keep saying a lot of questions. How will the representatives of the workers sit on a table when the Director General of the Public Service sends them to emigrate because they don't accept their offer? But do you think it's serious, from a high-ranking role of the People's Party, to tell some of the representatives of the workers and the workers? It's an indecency! And of course, in politics, in addition, that's a common practice of their government. Then, if we started talking about all the squares, we had here for three hours, and about their usual practice, as to how they lie with depreciations and square transfers. Not only in the Administration of Justice, they usually do it, and all employees and public employees know it. It's one thing that gives the body equal; we know that they usually lie and that money goes to support officials and public employees. And it also affects the precautionary model of the private by the corruption of your party and this corrupt system that you are striving to maintain. Finally, we want to say the same thing — and it is over — that the spokeswoman of the Socialist Party of Galicia: that, in the same way that they will support, or it seems that the PP defends 40% of the increase for state security forces and bodies, between civil guards and national police, to match them with the Mosos d’Esquadra, please do the same with regard to workers and wage differences existing between the workers of the various autonomous communities and please acknowledge the claims, totally legitimate, of this collective. And they refuse to negotiate, hear and settle this conflict, that there are families that can't resist more than weeks of strike. It's not a pleasant strike. It's just that it's a political irresponsibility, for both these workers and workers, and for the families of the Greeks and the Greeks, as we have already explained to them in the previous intervention, that you are still stranded, applying with iron hand your absolute majority.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u55	Well, ladies, let's try to lower the tension a little bit. Mr. Bará, Mr. Bará, Mr. Bará! I believe he betrays you the subconscious... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, I regret that today's eminence has not allowed her to act, but I don't blame myself, it's up to her group. Don't blame me for this. [[Applause]] Lately I don't know what's going on in your group, but every time I come here, it's a lot more people who criticize me than they don't let them talk about than they do. I have already requested at your moment support for Mrs Barahona's freedom of expression, and I have no problem in addition to her freedom of expression for Mr Villares. If you don't let him speak, I support you, Mr. Villares, there's no problem with that. [[Murmurs.]] But I was now talking to Mr Bará, or so I meant, Home!, another of the illustrious knots of this House, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, he said he was betrayed by the subconscious, because the only one who aspires to be a dolphin of this House in Pontevedra is you, Mr Bará. But why do you think he was sent here? He's being noticed too much! He's got too much interest in you! You have to conceal a little more. Look, I, for you to be so coherent in your planning, suppose today you have to make an announcement here, which is that you will increase the salary of the officials of the Pontevedra Town Hall and that you will match them to those of Spain's highest payroll council, in your case; and I admit Galicia, so that I don't get too caught up. That would be coherence. But, curiously, it doesn't, and the solution that you give is that to avoid discrimination between the Greek public employees and those in Catalonia, because we cause internal discrimination within Galicia by paying some amounts and others. That doesn't seem reasonable to us, Mr Bará; it isn't. And I have to clarify something else, Mr Bará, it's a wage strike. It's all right, it's all right to say, what happens is that BNG has the habit of saying that it never fights for wages or money, but BNG fights for dignity; it's always for dignity. I was reminded of a scene of a zarzuela in which a French soldier told a Spanish soldier: "I always fight for the dignity of my people." And the Spanish soldier answered, "I fight for money." And he said, "You have no dignity." And the other one said, "No, no, what happens is that everyone fights for what they lack." Perhaps you miss the dignity of the people of Greece. We, no; we that we miss are resources, and that's why we fight for resources, Your Honor, not for anything else. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, I want to clarify to you that I'm glad to know that you charge everything in A. We, too; in this game, too. We're less lucky than you with the lottery; with the lottery we're less fortunate than some members of your party, but to charge, we charge everything in A, like you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] In any case, understand, of course, that if you do transfers, others will come behind you. But doesn't it seem legitimate for others to claim it? Or do we have to meet a claim exclusively and leave absolutely nothing for what others may claim? It seems reasonable that the improvement should be moved in a transactionally manner. Look, Mrs. Vilan, I recognize you for once. You, in fact, defend the right of the unions to elect their interlocutor by the Union, and today you also want to choose who will be your interlocutor by the People's Parliamentary Group. I'm sorry, I touched him. What are we gonna do to him! Bad luck! You have a budgetary problem linked to a coherence problem, Mrs Vilán. Look, first you paid the officials of Justice zero euros in your budget proposals, and now you owe them the proposal of the Galician Union. It used to increase the budget of the Vice-Presidentship, because we wanted to ale Mr. Rueda, and today he comes here saying that Mr. Rueda is losing weight on board and that's why he's going through what's going on. You should try to practice the noble art of coherence. Look, today we even discover that in those communities that do not have the transferred competition it turns out that there is no justice or no additions. You're only limited to the average. Follow him! He doesn't care! As you said, in fact, sometimes things happen to you, Mrs. Vilán; what happens is that it's not the same as having ideas that happen, and you should start practicing that difference. He talked here about the comparison between the Mosos and the police and the Civil Guard. I want to explain something to you. Do you know who pays the police and the Civil Guard? And do you know who pays the Mossos? Because, as you pointed out earlier, the payer is unique; it is that he pays them all the Ministry of the Interior. It seemed quite reasonable that people who do the same... — rectification — that people who should do the same functions — because we have seen lately that they do and others do not — receive different wages when the payer is the same. That seems quite reasonable; it has nothing to do with the fact of autonomous communities, which do have autonomy to make their decisions. And, finally, Mrs. Santos, I didn't want to offend you with "sisters," I take it back. Anyway, Mr. Cal also feels included in the term "ladys," and I don't think he's offensive either. Of course, I didn't mean to offend her. Go ahead. Then I have to remind you of something. The sense of humor is that you say it in bad company, because today we remember the joke you made us a year ago, don't I know if it wakes up? Because look what I brought up with that joke about how the people of the People's Party qualified! His sense of humor is a bit peculiar. He also spoke of the prayer of his salary. Man, you pay your salary to organizations that manifest themselves against the Government. You don't pray, Mrs. Santos, you feed the majority of society, and do so to deny afterwards the legitimacy of governments coming out of the polls. That's the difference. [[Applause]] Because I don't give it to us too. [[Applause]] Or do you think our party is still in the air? We also contributed!, but we're not going to make a fuss about it. But calm down, woman, that's all right! [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u56	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u57	Look, you talked about everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u58	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u59	...less than the strike. I understand you have little interest in this strike of Justice. I understand if he's gone... [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u60	Mrs. Santos, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u61	...a strike of notaries or property registries would worry them more, especially in the Coruña, because there it would block certain issues that are interesting to you. But the strike of Justice also matters. [[Murmurs.]] It doesn't matter, Your Honor! [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have to give him how important he is. Anyway, I, after listening to your intervention, the only question I have to ask myself is, why having such an eminence in your group allowed you to intervene today?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u63	Because you don't know the figures, you don't know the laws that apply, you don't know the parliamentary agreements... you don't know the agreements you participated in!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u65	But what part of the deal did you say here? But you don't even know the agreements you voted for in this Parliament? But, man, please, be a little more serious...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u67	Be a little more serious!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u69	Be a little more serious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u70	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u71	...to study a little more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u72	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u73	...and if not, take lessons from the eminence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u75	...that I'm sure that inside...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u76	Stop a moment. Stop! Stop! Mr. Paz, stop so Mrs. Santos doesn't interrupt. You better keep quiet so you don't interrupt. But now it's over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u77	Don't worry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u78	Now it's over! Now it's over! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u79	There are few things that bring me as much satisfaction as discussing with Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u80	It's over! But so they don't interrupt, they shut up. When they interrupt, shut up, it's best on both sides. [[Applause]] Close the show, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the first thing I want to do is thank the three members of the opposition who, at least in this last intervention, had a little focus on the subject, which, of course, to the Galician Council and I'm sure the representatives of the workers are what they care about. They spoke a little more. Maybe it was because they had less time and it was easier. They've focused a little more on justice and, therefore, I think that's good. Mrs. Santos, speaking for a moment about the question of Justice, I am glad that I recognized, regardless of what you would like to take the money you earn, that you earn more than the members of the Government, therefore, be a little cautious... as Mr. Alberto Pazos told you to dedicate it to, but be a little cautious. He earns more than the members of the government and the public era cost him more than the members of the government. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, one thing you said is right, and I already recognized Mr. Villares... who, by the way, if it's the great eminence you know about everything in the judicial field, what do you do sitting there? Why isn't that what's going on? Posts to... yeah, yeah, I know this isn't important enough. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Just as Mrs Pontón is not here, as is Mr Leicega — I know the president is not — but they must also have very important occupations. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] You asked for the audience, indeed, and neither the spokesman of the Socialist Party nor the spokesperson of the BNG are here. This is a little bit of a second. There's other things to do, it's not worth being here. You're here. I'd like you to take note of that, too, of the unions. [[Murmurs.]] Just as they have to note that, actually, what I told you before, I recognized that yes, that the Tides of Podemos did put something in the budgets of the Board to meet the demands of the staff of Justice: 4 euros a month. Yes, yes, you say: it was contemplated. Indeed, 4 euros per month of a total — he told you — of the money they moved. Of 768 million euros that moved away, there were 4 euros a month to meet the demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u82	Quiet, please. Stop! [[Murmurs.]] Stop! [[Murmurs.]] Let's stop. No, no, I'm not in a hurry. Better stop. When they're interrupting, stop, and see if we all respect each other. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, calm down. There's no rush. We'll resume when there's silence. There's no problem with this. See if we respect the use of the word all over the world. Go ahead, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I told you, Mrs. Santos, 4 euros a month, compared to what they intended. After telling them that no problem, that death with them — both the BNG and the PSOE — is 4 euros a month, so look! it's four times more, and it's to recognize. And, I'm telling you, if the solution to the problem is to put what you put in the budgets, when you had the chance... and they'll say, no, now they could. Listen, but is it, then, when you were with them, what were they?, taking your hair? They were telling them a Chinese story and forgetting them, didn't they give you such a big deal? It's just that we have to be consistent in solving the problems! And this has to be known by union representatives. And Mr. Bará also tells me that I missed the opportunity of my hand held. Look, no, what's to be consistent, Mr. Bara. Now tell me what tomorrow itself and you offer yourself. Of course, but you say it again... and it's not to say it... actually, we're both of Pontevedra and, therefore, we both know what's going on there. Of course, what you can't say is that the problem is that we don't talk to the unions, when you've passed them to the gasket completely three months ago. So, of course, he attends the unions, as long as it isn't the unions who ask the BNG for things in Pontevedra, which, then, you don't have to attend to them. The rest are. You have to get along with the unions, you have to take care of everything, but when it comes to us, no, then don't do what I'm doing. That's what happened, Mr. Bará. So you come here to ask for dialogue with the unions, because you have to know what you do when you have a chance to dialogue with the unions. Just that, for a matter of consistency to fix the problem. Then, look, it's not true that I haven't met with unions for a while; I meet with unions. You can't say I'm never met with unions. If you ask the unions -- you certainly didn't ask them -- you can't tell them that. Well, then, I'm sure it's not the unions that don't tell the truth, I'm sure not, at least most unions. Mrs. Vilán, look, the court building in Pontevedra we bid him the following month to give us the land. If he accuses me of delays, it will be, at last... I, if he wants, I can... and you're from Pontevedra and I should know. Tui's judicial building? Adjudicate this month. And the City of Vigo Justice? He must be the only person in Galicia who doesn't know how the City of Justice is in Vigo, because he asks me about it. In the end, you have to come here to fill up the rest of your time because you don't spend any time... because the ten minutes are too long for you to talk about the strike of Justice and you have to start saying that the board does nothing in justice. At least inform yourself a little more. Just as we have to inform — I insist — of the wages paid in the Ministry's territory. And you know a lot about what's done in our autonomous community, but you don't really know what they pay for, with which, in the end, that argument falls by its own weight. But you told me I missed the occasion for my hand. I said nothing! Look, I said from the beginning that Junta has negotiated, negotiated and will negotiate, of course; and that we are interested in closing this conflict above all. We are perfectly aware of the prejudices that are causing the workers who strike and are not paying their wages, the professionals of the Administration of Justice, all those who work directly, and especially the citizens, who pay justice with their taxes — just as they pay us all — and what they want justice to work. But it is also true that we negotiated it with the money of the Greeks — I say from the beginning — we negotiated it with the mandate of the Greeks and, therefore, we are obliged to negotiate with responsibility. So, since I'm sure or I have the intuition that there is some union that doesn't want the agreement and that it will do everything possible not to reach an agreement, I'm also sure that the vast majority of unions are responsible and will do everything possible to reach an agreement. And so what I have to say is we want to keep negotiating. It's true that we don't get up from the Bureau, but if the question is to make a call again, the Council of Galicia will do it. Tomorrow we will even get back in touch with the unions to keep negotiating, to talk about everything and try to close everything, what is practically closed and what — and we all know what we're talking about — is still about to close. Of course, we're not going to talk about being unremovable in any offer, of course, not in the economy either, but we want to close that responsibility. It is also true that if the unions are kept in the nearly 3,000 euros a year, listen either to Wheel or without Wheel, we will not be able to reach an agreement because we negotiate with the taxes of all the Greeks. But since I'm sure that most — not all, and I say it here too — trade unions are interested in reaching an agreement, and they're interested in arriving as soon as possible, I'm going to make the offer again and I'm going to say that tomorrow even the representation of the Galician Council will call the unions to rejoin them. If the strike is suspended and, therefore, citizens again receive services that they demand and need, the adviser who talks to them will be present in the negotiation; if, in any case, a representation of the Galician Union will be present directly in contact with all of us and, of course, with the intention of closing the strike and closing it as soon as possible. So tomorrow we will even reconvene the unions, and I hope that, as soon as possible, if we are all reasonable — the Council of Galicia was from the beginning and also from the responsibility — we will try to reach an agreement and arrive as soon as possible. I hope at least they don't make noise or disqualifications and try to get us to an agreement. When they got the chance, they didn't do anything at all, I hope now at least one hand, and they put on a positive hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u84	Thank you, Vice President. The opinion of Mrs. Director of Infrastructure and Housing, on his own request, to address the objectives and development of the Galician Road Safety Plan 2016-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u85	For the intervention of this audience, the advisor for Infrastructure and Living has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u86	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I come up with my own request, to account for the work we have been doing at the Galician Road Safety Board, to address and report on the objectives and lines of action we have seen and what we want to carry out towards the future within the framework of the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan, at a time we consider achievable, since we are on the equator of the vigency of this plan, and therefore enough to talk about what we have done and of the plans for the future. But in the meantime, I want to make it clear that we don't want it to be a triumphal intervention. Of course, while there's only one victim on our roads, we can't finish our work. We intend a constructive dialogue and talk about the progress made and, as I said, we also talk about plans for the future. Road safety must be a priority for public administrations, for public authorities. We must lead it and, of course, put all means at our disposal to continue improving road safety, being also aware that this struggle for improving road safety must be a joint work with the awareness and involvement of all, of the whole society in general. We have a road map, which is the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan, which is guiding government action, and cross-sectional work that includes all the departments of the Galician Union, but a global plan also with concrete measures and coordinating the actions of all the actors involved. During my appearance, I will try to explain to you as clearly as possible how this Road Safety Plan was broken down, the factors that intervened and which were taken into account in developing this document, the basic pillars, the objectives and also the degree of development of this Road Safety Plan. This plan is part of the experience in managing previous road safety plans. The Road Safety Plan 2011-2015 was concluded with beneficial results: 37% of fatalities were reduced to 24 hours in urban areas. The Road Safety Plan 2016-2020 is part of the European Guidelines of the World Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety. So it's a line of work in line with the European Union and the United Nations. And the fruit of this intense work, coordinated by the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, we had a first document that we wanted it to be the result of a cross-sectional action and to fit and put together all the proposals and actions of all the departments of the Galician Union. Therefore, it is a participatory plan that is the result of a cross-sectional work with that basic text that we moved to the different social agents to enrich that first basic text of the Road Safety Plan 2016-2020, incorporating reflections and approaches of all social agents we could talk to: road users, victims of accidents, self-schoolers, cyclists, drivers, psychotechnics, engineers etc. We incorporate the proposals, which we put into action. We subsequently transferred this draft plan to the Autonomous Traffic and Road Safety Commission, where they are represented from the Central Administration and the Autonomous Administration to the Local Administration and also the Civil Traffic Guard and the General Traffic Directorate. Finally, to complete this participation document and summation of efforts, the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan was approved by the Board on February 4, 2016. As the main factors, basic pillars, of this plan, we consider the human factor, the vehicle factor, the infrastructure, the care of the accident, and — of course, in my opinion — education and awareness. From here, therefore, in line with the World Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety, we have set up five strategic targets: optimizing road safety management, achieving secure transit routes and mobility, betting on safer vehicles, working to get safer traffic users and improving the response after accidents. 49 concrete measures have been introduced into this Road Safety Plan and, by setting some specific example, in the area of the direct responsibility of the Infrastructure Council, we can set an example of improving concrete security to protect the most vulnerable users and also acting with other agencies or in collaboration with other social agents, such as safe school routes. A whole set of measures and joint work to minimize the number of traffic accidents and minimize their effects and concrete measures that are accompanied by budget support. In 2018, in this year's 2018 budget, the specific and concrete road safety match increases by 48%, and, adding to other actions that improve competitiveness, but also contribute to road safety, we are talking about that in 2018 80 million euros are destined for this matter. So, we have the resources needed for development and to achieve concrete goals that we have marked, since it is clear that each victim is a drama and a situation that no family should go through. And we won't stop from then on until we get that target we want: that there are no traffic accident victims. But we want to achieve goals, we want to move forward with realism and ambition at the same time. We have a priority objective, which is what marks the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan, as it said, in line with European directives, and that objective is that from 2011 to 2020 fatalities on the Greek roads are reduced by 50%, ambitious but attainable with the work of all. And in the current plan, what I have to say is that it highlights special attention to the most vulnerable users, of course pawns, cyclists, pilgrims, children and adults and drivers, applying innovative measures also the product of management and experience in management and social participation. It highlights the bet on concrete actions on the margins of autonomic roads, taking into account, for example, different collectives such as drivers, running and installing SPMs (motor protection systems), improving forklifts and, therefore, focusing, for example, on improving road safety for vulnerable users such as drivers. In road safety, there are some factors that will share with me that are very important and basic: the human factor, the vehicle factor and the infrastructure factor. We know that the state of the vehicles matters, the security systems with which the vehicles count are important. Since Galician union we are betting not only on training but also on innovation in the automotive sector to improve these possible security systems, also with technical vehicle inspections; it's 1.8 million vehicle inspections that take place each year. In particular, in the Infrastructure Council and focusing efforts on key elements that we consider to be infrastructure and also the human factor. Within the human factor, of course, a bet determined by awareness and education. As I said, 49 specific measures, specific to the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan. We have planned, and it is now under way, the Plan of Firm Strengthening to act from the Galician Union in its powers, which is 5,500 kilometers, and we are running and preserving. It's not just important to run new roads, since it's very important to keep what we have. Action of a firm reinforcement plan complementary to the Galician Union Winter Sustainability Plan. We want to get there. In 2016-2017, with this firm reinforcement plan that we are moving forward, more than 1,000 kilometres from autonomic roads, with 26 million euros in two years, and this year 2018 we will continue with that firm reinforcement plan, increasing the annual budget share and increasing by 5 million euros, from 15 million euros to 20 million euros. We've already bid this little time 9 million euros and about in the next few days another 2 and a half million more for firm reinforcements in different provinces and we'll continue to increase in the next few weeks actions of firm reinforcements. Other actions that also influence infrastructure can be the conditioning of the Route Orders-Mercurín, Lindín-Cruz da Cancela and also other roads in A Lama and tomorrow. Another important initiative in the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan is the Galician Roadmap, a fundamental roadmap for the Road Safety Plan, which will allow us to run 170 kilometres, under the supervision of this plan, safe and useful paths to promote that sustainable mobility, but essentially that safe mobility, protect the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable users and make these daily moves safer. We started to develop this Roadmap in 2016, in a first phase, in seven Galician districts; we also advanced in a second phase in other Galician regions; between the first and the second phase we already have 95 new routes and 130 kilometers, but the goal, as I said, is 170 kilometers in this legislation to promote safer and more sustainable peonil mobility. We have mobilized in these last two years 24 million euros for useful and safe paths, building 70 kilometers. Important examples of the others we are pushing may be the itinerary, the path at PO-308 — and very necessary — in Poio and Sanxenxo; at PO-340, in Gondomar to Ramallosa; and also at C-130, Ares-Mugardos. And, as I said, we have budgetary support with specific splits that increase this budget by 48% in 2018 and that will allow us to put in place — it is already allowing us to do so — the elimination of all the truces of accident concentration on the roads of autonomous ownership. We are taking a new step and to achieve that goal that we have set out in the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan, to comply with that resolution that we approved in this German Parliament to protect vulnerable users and improve safety in all the accident concentration truces. We're talking about truces of accident concentration on autonomic roads, which is 1.6% of the length of the autonomic road network, that is, 90 kilometers of autonomic network, but where 18% of accidents are concentrated. We want to prioritize and we are giving priority to this type of action, a strategy for the elimination of all truces of accident concentration, the black spots to act on all of them and to eliminate the 52 truces of concentration of accidents on autonomic roads in this same legislation; 12 million euros concrete to eliminate these concrete and fully identified truces. A few months ago we presented this strategy and we're working and we already have results, because we have already submitted ten projects to public information corresponding to these actions. Another important and also planned initiative in that Road Safety Plan that we are developing is the removal of obstacles, betting on the concept of "forgiveable strata", which we have given a second chance for those timely mistakes that we can make. This year 2018, 500,000 euros for this concept of "forgiveable roads" on different autonomous roads. And since June, we have been very aware of the problem of the sinisterness that is recorded on our roads as a result of the animal plague. In this sense, the Galaga Infrastructure Agency and the demarcation of State Roads in Galicia, in collaboration with the University of Coruña, developed a work to identify these highly accidental animal traits. The animal crash data recorded in the last ten years, thanks to a work of the Directorate General for Traffic, are perfectly defined, precisely located where the atropellas are produced, mainly by corso or boar, road truces identified where the highest concentration of animal crash accidents occurs, and that's why we have pilot projects in the province of Lugo and in the province of Ourense. Therefore, different measures for animal hitchhiking, such as reinforced closures, escape pathways of fauna, reflective catchpers, repellents, etc., and also working on a team and multidisciplinary working group, where there is also the Environmental Council, to reduce the effects of accidents by the shabaril; a working group in which all the administrations holding the various roads, different organisms, are integrated in order to propose concrete measures to reduce pests and animal accidents. You can't forget the reinforcement of road safety with other actions that we're pushing from Galicia. I can put, for example, the action that we have already bid to boost the improvement of road safety in Seixalbo, a very demanding performance in OU-105, as well as others such as the improvement of intersections at LU-664 in Monforte or AC-840 in Curtis, that intersection that we believe should be improved. Therefore, new infrastructures with specific and concrete criteria to improve road safety. And in this paragraph there are also other actions that improve Galicia's competitiveness, but of course they also substantially contribute to road safety. We have examples of these kinds of actions as the variant of Aradas, the work we're doing for the future Sarria-Monforte deployment and of course a specific road safety action as it can be the Morrazo highway, seven kilometers that we'll soon see in service and thus also contributing to the improvement of road safety. In the usual line of collaboration with the Directorate-General for Traffic, we have been working intensively with the Directorate-General for Traffic and the Civil Guard. We have launched awareness campaigns, pedestrian awareness, cyclists awareness, greater awareness; awareness raising and, of course, education as well; specific campaigns for the distribution of reflective elements, reflective garments that are authentic life vests, and therefore prevent them from stumbling on our roads. We started this work by the Directorate General of Traffic years ago; in particular, in 2016 there were 2,000 reflective vests; in 2017, 1,000 new reflective vests, accompanied with informational trips for a specific group, and where we have actually identified the victim of the atropelo, who is the largest person, with dark garments, who moves mainly through our rural area. We want them to be visible, to be seen, and that's why we're going to use these new vests and information talks in collaboration with DGT for these kinds of reflective elements. Also, reflective winds, by the hand of the Galega Cyclism Federation. They are vulnerable users, we want to prevent them from running into this collective too and to become visible as well, a garment that the collective itself considers appropriate to facilitate the practice of this sport. In 2016, in 2017, by hand and working with the Galega Cyclism Federation, we distributed 1,600 reflective cuttings. Two awareness campaigns with, between 2016 and 2017, 4,600 reflective garments, 4,600 therefore elements to be seen. And we will continue with that line and tomorrow we will also publish in the Official Journal of Galicia a new contract to purchase 30 new reflective vests and 3,000 new biker cuttings, €140,000, with the objective of getting seen and, therefore, continue to bet on this line of collaboration with the most vulnerable groups. In order to increase the road safety of cyclists, as well as the father who can ride with his son by bicycle on our roads, we also started a line of work, a new channel of collaboration with the Galician Cycling Federation, and also with the hands of the Directorate General of Traffic, to identify these truces frequented by cyclists. We have identified twelve truces, in particular 700 kilometers, three in each of the provinces in total. We have made a commitment to remove obstacles, to properly mark the frequent passage by cyclists, with the aim also to influence and strengthen road safety in those truces, thinking, of course, of being vulnerable as the cyclist may be. With the same goal of getting safer traffic routes, another vulnerable collective is the drivers. From the Galician Junta we organize safe driving courses for motorcycles, by the hand of the National Motorcycle Driving School. Through these free courses, in the Coruña, Lugo, Ourense, in Vigo, 160 people improved their driving skills to strengthen road safety. We want to continue to promote this type of training and awareness-raising initiatives to affect road safety. In view of the welcome of this initiative, we will also publish tomorrow the announcement of the recruitment of the organization of new safe driving courses for motorcycles. Another initiative, also provided for in this Road Safety Plan 2016-2020, is that we are engaged in a media campaign designed specifically to raise awareness about steering distractions by using the mobile phone. To try to shorten this new trend that is being recorded, we recommend awareness-raising and awareness-raising against these distractions, distractions to the wheel that in 2016 became the first competing factor for victims' claims, something we can say was the first time in history, and in 2017 also one of the main causes — or 30% — was the result of distractions. And, as I said at the outset, of course one of the most relevant actions — and that is also foreseen in the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan — are awareness-raising, education and awareness-raising campaigns for the youngest. In collaboration with the Education Council, already in 2016 we started a campaign to educate our children: "The heart is on your side", teaching units directed to boys between 6 and 8 years old, in eight schools in rural areas. We share 5,000 led devices and didactic units, "the Latex", with which we wanted to draw the attention of the smaller ones, who use the paths, which circulate on the left side -- that is the side where the heart is -- and, therefore, to be able to see the vehicle that comes in front of them and to be seen as much as possible. We are aware from the juntta that one of the most effective lines to reduce traffic accidents — as I insist again — is education, awareness, awareness-raising, and of course instilling it and giving these values also to the younger, our children, our children. By promoting, therefore, the culture of safety would travel among our children, also in this same line tomorrow we will even start a new campaign of "The heart is on your side," a more ambitious campaign to reach more centers and more children in our rural Galician. And even linked to these safe school itineraries, you also know that you are working with Stop Accidents to promote these road safety habits in school areas in our rural areas. We have a pilot project, started in 2017 at the José García García College, in Mende, in Ourense province. Work that is about to end, to define and establish safe itineraries for children, and we also want to extend these kinds of initiatives to other schools in our rural Galician. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, it's a set of actions, a set of measures that are part of this 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan, measures that are most of them already very advanced; although we're in the middle of the plan's vigency, practically all of them are very advanced. What we want is to achieve is this goal that we have set out in the Road Safety Plan: to reduce by 50%, from 2011 to 2020, fatal victims in traffic accidents. Just a week ago, we held a new meeting of the Autonomic Committee on Road Traffic and Security in the Government Delegation. At this meeting we had the opportunity to analyze the data of sinisterity in 2017, also their causes. The truth is, we're in a positive trend. Accidents have come down significantly, but — I insist — we do not want to interpret this data triumphally, but rather as pure indicators of the evolution of the data of sinequality in 2017; 30 deaths less in interurban pathways, 28% less in Galicia. So the biggest drop is in our Autonomous Community, Galicia, because the average state has risen by 3%. What does that mean? It shows that, thanks to the work of everyone, of all drivers, pawns, cyclists, drivers, associations, institutions, administrations, we are closer to that objective that we have marked, ambitious but attainable, to reduce by 50% the fatal victims in 2020. We're going the right way, but of course we don't have to go down the guard, and of course we all have to work together. We have to be careful, vigilant, keeping this trend downwards, insisting and appealing to prudence, to the responsibility of the steering wheel, summarizing efforts among all the agents involved, and of course on that path we also want the involvement of all groups of this House. Road safety, in my opinion, is the task of all administrations, of course, with their share of responsibility, but no plan, of any administration, can provide prudence, respect and responsibility to the steering wheel. As a society, we must all involve ourselves, work everywhere, promote responsible conduct and, of course, start by ourselves, setting an example for others. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my first intervention to speak of road safety, of the main lines of work of this road safety plan 2016-2020, of its degree of development; just 20 minutes or 25 minutes, which, of course, are not enough to draw each of the 49 measures provided for in this road safety plan. In the next speeches I will also try to talk about other aspects and broaden the information, specific points that I want to move. Of course, I am at your disposal to complete any matter, to listen very closely to your approach, with the aim of working together and working among all of you to improve the road safety of our roads in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u87	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr Bará Torres has the floor on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u88	Very good day again, Counselor. I have to start by thanking him for this appearance, as it is not! it seems to us to be an important issue. And I also have to start by apologizing to him, because last week you publicly said that as a woman you don't feel discriminated against in today's society and in the current work you do, you feel well valued, and you look very good. But this is not a personal matter. The debate about the social situation, the woman's work, is not a personal matter. You may be a privileged person, because you are well treated, but the vast majority of women are not in this situation and therefore you must respect strike rights, because it is a strike — I declare it — not for you, to solve your problem — that you have already solved — but to solve the problem of women who suffer from wage discrimination, who suffer inequality, who suffer violence. That's what that strike is for. And, said this, I would say that I thank you for your presence here, because, indeed, this is a very important issue, that the BNG has already brought to this House on numerous occasions and that we think that it has to be addressed from a broad perspective, from a global perspective. It's a debate about mobility, about planning and land management, about all forms of mobility, not just about motorized mobility, because we have to fight a model that we consider to be aggressive, it's regressive, which is designed primarily for vehicles, for cars, and not for people, and that has to be framed, in addition, in a global debate on sustainability, about the need for a Greek strategy for sustainable, healthy and safe mobility. In this sense, I want to ask you a question, because we are very interested to know what happened to the Alternative Mobility Director Plan, which was auctioned by the Greek Government and the Galician Board in 2010, by EUR 340,000, Counsellor, and which is stored in a drawer. Three documents have been prepared; the third is the Master Plan to promote non-motorized modes of transport, and you have the unmotorized modes of transport stored in a drawer. And this seems to us wrong, because it is also a public fund dispensation, because EUR 340,000 has been spent on this matter. So here is our proposal to reach agreements on this issue, as we have already talked about in other debates that we have had, in budget debates and in their appearances here, which for us has to go through really a different strategy, based on coordination and institutional cooperation, which has to lead Galician Union, not only to meet with the State Administration but also with other administrations, and also to involve social agents, and we miss that table very much. We said that the BNG has made numerous proposals, and in addition they are made from experience, humbly, from experience in governments, essentially the experience of Pontevedra, in the Council and in the Deputy, but mainly in the Council of Pontevedra, which is going around the world. We are in Salzburg these days and we will also go to Stockholm to present a successful model that is being able to drastically end or reduce serious accidents and end fatalities in urban areas. Because you've given here data on the interurban pathways, which are worrying data; in any case, although there's a downward trend, you haven't told us about urban areas. We offer you the experience of Pontevedra to arrive at agreements and to move forward as well and for the work that the cities and villages have to do in this area as well as since the Unity of Galicia. Because we need to change the hierarchy, this current hierarchy that puts first the cars, the motorized vehicles, and we need to put people first, first the people, first the people, creating healthy and safe contours in front of the aggressive, hostile and dangerous contours that are at this moment the roads of Greece, and mainly — it's not for nothing — the roads, Counsellor, of Pontevedra province. Because this map is afraid, this map is afraid. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays maps.]] In the Coruña, there are also very worrisome areas, but if you look at this map, the entire western border of Pontevedra province are roads that have a total of 40 accident concentration points, which is one of the main problems — not the only one — that must be solved, and we see no trace of it. Of course, with 12 million euros up to 2020, this problem, this map that scares, of forty accident concentration points, we see it very difficult for them to solve it. We think that this successful model, with adaptations, can be adapted to the entire road network, — I say — with adaptations and performances not only palliative, with preventive actions that act throughout the public road and not with partial performances and patches, because you are selling as a large measure the Roadmap and we have actually told you at the commission: it is a plan of barriers, painted in color, but a plan of barriers, which, in addition, do not meet the standards and minimums of legal width, because we have been measuring them in addition and in some cases are under the metre of width, because they have 1.20 and urban furniture remain in 90 centimeters; then they do not comply with any regulations. And they don't meet neither the rules nor the criteria that you yourself have developed on cyclist mobility. Don't come here to say, please don't say it any more, that they are common-use paths for pedestrians and cyclists, because they don't meet the minimum parameters for this. And I refer to that Alternative Mobility Director Plan, which has a document called "Criterios and Recommendations for Tracking and Designing cyclists", which you have stored in the drawer and which you have not applied, because you have not done any of these actions, which does not allow double circulation in this kind of way. So please don't talk about this any more. In fact, in the last fifteen years there have been progress, and they have a lot to do with some leaders, and there's a gentleman who might have to quote here, which is Mr. Pere Navarro, who has done a great job in the state, promoting policies that have actually managed to reduce accidents and fatalities; it's a very positive evolution in the last fifteen years. But I also tell you that in the last five years, four to five years, your own reports show that there is a worrying trend, that there is a recurrence of accidents, and that there was also last year a rally of victims, in 2016 — sorry, in 2017 — there has been a fall of fatal victims, but throughout the period — and we have to analyze cycles — the number of accidents has been maintained or even some years has increased so let's be careful. In fact, you, taking into account the recommendations and commitments of the UN and the European Union, have drawn up the 2010-2015 Master Plan. By the way, they made an intermediate balance of that plan but they didn't make the final balance, and in this 2018 plan we also miss that there's no intermediate balance. You come here to appear, but let's hope that there is also an intermediate balance of the degree of compliance with the measures included in this plan, which sets out the objectives and measures that are pending to comply with. By the way, you, at school, told us about a 2017 pilot plan for a school. If they do this, it really seems to us a very poor balance, Counselor. In Pontevedra we have an accredited experience, and in other municipalities too, of the safe school roads, which can also be useful. They can come there, we talk and we take advantage of the experiences. You're also talking about good practice manuals, but we haven't seen one. They're talking about the Road Safety Portal and we haven't seen it either. Finally, I also tell you that there have been proposals that were included in the plan by collectives, institutional coordination table, road safety audits, repositioning of the Nightbus... by the way, you're talking about Stop accidents, because Stop accidents and other groups have asked for the replacement of the Nightbus, and I'm sure it'll save many new people's lives in these years. They put up the Night Bus, that would be a measure, of course, advanced to be asked by the collectives. Already in 2014 and 2015 the Directorate-General for Traffic warned of wildlife accidents and proposed concrete measures that have not yet been adopted and that have to be adopted already, which is to signal the black points of animal plague concentration, for example. Or medium-time indicators of the media's attention to accidents. Look, this theme, of course, is a very serious one. We must be careful, we must avoid triumphalism and we must act with responsibility, with rigour and with the utmost coordination and participation. Because I've already told you that the data on the network would travel autonomously is not to launch the bells on the fly. There was an increase in accidents with victims in the period 2012-2016, he said his memory, the memory that they published — and that they didn't practically give him publicity — of the year 2016. There were 43 accidents in 2012, 44 in 2016, and more than 40% of accidents across the entire road network are on the autonomic network, a data to worry about, because you're giving the global data of the interurban network, but you're talking about the autonomic network, which is your primary responsibility. Data from pawn hits on the autonomic network has not gone down, they're kept stabilized. We have to act on this issue because, in addition, most of the accidents occur in traversities and truces that have borders on both sides, Counselor, therefore, we have to act on the key issue, because 90% of the accidents are due to the human factor, and the only way to correct the human factor is to calm down traffic, moderate speed, take drastic physical means to avoid speed, especially in the crossings, which is where most of the atrophies occur. And there's also worrying data on the autonomic network, for example, about the provinces of Lugo and La Coruña, because it's not all quantitative. Indeed, the accident concentration points are in the province of Pontevedra, but Lugo's data are really worrying, because Lugo has 11% of the accidents and has 25% of the deaths in the autonomic road network. So take note of this and also act on Lugo's road network and the Coruña province, which have 39% of the accidents and 48% of the victims, and this is also a data to be taken into account. There has also been agreement in this Parliament on the black spots of the state network, and we demand that they take action and negotiate with the state administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u90	...now that there come rains of millions, and that they act on this, which is a priority issue, as in the paths of Santiago, that there is a parliamentary agreement that sets priority in 2018 to eliminate black points on the Portuguese Way, which is really in constant interference with the national 550, and we must act already and with effective measures. Therefore, Counsellor, our offer to dialogue, to agreement, from prudence, avoiding triumphalism, avoiding opportunism, from concern, because we are talking about deaths, victims, pain, tragedies. We have to make an effort for institutional and political coordination; we have to put on the media... of course, with 12.3 million euros for the black spots not enough, not even those 80 million of what you've been talking about. Mr. Feijóo told us that AGI has 561 million for the years 2018 and 2019, the infrastructure agency. They have to put more means on this issue, which is a fundamental issue, and they have above all to assume and demand the competences in trafficking, road safety and police, which they have to pass to Galicia to really have a coordinated and effective action in this matter. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u91	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, Counselor, good morning. Let me erase my speech by showing the solidarity and support of our group, with the assurance that it is a desire shared by all groups of the House and by the people present, a desire for solidarity and support for all those who, during 2017, have had the misfortune of suffering the consequences of a traffic accident. [[Applause]] And secondly, the Socialist Group wants to express our appreciation for the institutions, organizations, associations, professional groups and individual civilians that are involved daily in the goal of zero sinisters. Finally, we would also like to thank, as a member of the Special Non-Permanent Study Committee on Road Safety in Galicia, for the Socialist Group, for the massive presence of the most diverse groups and sectors, and for their contributions and enthusiasm for collaboration to improve the conditions for road safety in Galicia. All of them, and the anonymous civilians involved in this task, thank you very much and commend you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all potential victims of a sinister road, such as pawns, cyclists, drivers, drivers or escorts. This matter covers all of us, and therefore it must involve the whole of society, and this implies a systematic procedure of the highest political leaders, alienated from the forms and the bottom of opaque temptations, advantages and triumphalists. These adjectives are incompatible with the matter of road safety, and they are incompatible because they produce disadvantages and relaxation in a matter where society as a whole must be, and with the utmost implication, in order to conquer targets. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, if I may, Mrs. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle, I have no doubt about her high sensitivity to road safety, with the same clarity and roundness, Counsellor, that I do not share in the background or in the forms the exercise of her responsibilities as such, in this case in the matter of road safety. Something about history. You took possession as advisor in June 2014, almost four years ago. It has the skills of housing, infrastructure and transport, and, of course, I hear nothing of the word transport in its first intervention, when it seems quite important the collective transport of people to minimize the presence of private vehicles. I say infrastructure and transport, directly linked to road safety. You have clear skills in road safety in Galicia. I don't know if you're aware that this is your first appearance to deal with this issue, almost four years after taking possession. He told us he was here to talk about the past, the present and the future of road safety. From the past, it was time! From now on, I have noticed clear absences of issues that have to do with road safety. From the future, I think you have to change it, change it, because everyone's participation is needed. By the way, without documentation known by opposition groups, as had happened before with their predecessor. Counsellor, you will not deny me that the treatment of this serious problem is peculiar to the Government of Greece in connection with parliamentary appearances. His predecessor, Mr. Hernández, appeared twice over this matter over the course of five months, on September 10, 2013 and February 11, 2014, and since then we have been punished with a blackout, until today, on road safety in this House. You, first appearance in four years, and this is despite the fact that Mr Hernández has expressed himself at parliamentary headquarters that, while there are victims, we will have to talk about this in the plenary. And the victims were in 2014, in 2015 and 2016, but you didn't show up. I ask you to answer why no previous balance sheets have been presented annually in this Parliament, for example, in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. Why did he not bring or present to this Parliament the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan, adopted at the Council of Galicia on February 4, 2016. You compare yourself, Counsellor, according to your request for attendance, to address the objectives and development of the 2016-2020 Galician Road Safety Plan. By the way, a plan which has as its main objective a reduction to 50% by 2020 of the victims that occurred in 2011. Counsellor, this plan was approved in 2016. It meant reducing 50% to 2020 with 93 victims. Counsellor, in 2015 — not before the approval of the plan — it was already overdue because there were 92 victims. I am sorry to remind you that this plan was drafted and adopted exclusively by the Government of the People's Party, excluding the participation of parliamentary groups and society. This is not a participatory and inclusive plan, it is a part plan, limiting, individualist, a plan that in its elaboration, approval and development followed a process just the opposite of what international bodies recommend in road safety plans. You gave up a macroplan, a country plan, to reduce it to a microplan, a People's Party plan. You, and your government, have given up sharing this plan with society. If they shared it, the successes and failures would be everyone's. They preferred to individualize it, and this leads to the temptation of manipulating times — not appearances when statistics are not favorable — and data for their own benefit and not collective. For example, before I think she was punished by the subconscious and talked about sharing reflective vests in 2016, now again. Counselor, if it were a country project, I would recognize that the previous governments also distributed reflective vests, already during the Bipartite. And there's nothing wrong with recognizing him. [[Applause]] It's all right, which is a work of continuity from previous governments to reach the final goal, which is zero sinister. For example, why did you show up in 2018 with the 2017 hand data, and didn't you show up in 2017 with the 2016 data? I can tell you there were citizens who gave me a very simple explanation, which I don't think, but very simple. It did not appear in 2017 because the 2016 data reflected an increase of 15 fatalities compared to 2015. And it comes in 2018 because the data in 2017 reflect a decrease of 29 victims compared to 2016. That, if it were a country project, it wouldn't matter, but otherwise if you have it. It is obvious that in an individualistic plan statistics benefit or harm depending on whether they are good or bad. If the plan was outside society, the reality of the data would be assumed by the set, without individualist beneficiaries or prejudiced individuals. Counsellor, the fundamental data regarding 2017 have already been advanced at the meeting of the Autonomic Committee on Road Traffic and Safety on 27 February. There, too, you have been brought forward, through the corresponding information note, the main data that you have just referred to; few news in this sense in your appearance. What has become chronic for your part in appearances is the input of twisted data to disfigure reality, the logic of an individual project in which you self-erized yourself as a savior of road safety. Let me outline the discrepancies of the Socialist Group with regard to the data and statistics that you provide. We don't share that holder with the increase of 34% of the investments in Galician Union, among other things, because it's not true. In the Road Construction and Conservation Program the increase in 2018 compared to 2017 is the sixth part of the announced percentage, less than 6%. Second. The number of fatalities on the Greek roads amounted to 76 people in 2017. It is true that Galicia is the autonomous community that had a major decline in 2017, but equally certainly it turns out that Galicia was the second largest community in 2016, the year in which you did not appear — today's difference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u94	If we first took these two exercises, the first of the 2016-2017 Junta Road Plan, Galicia would already lose that leadership in favor of Castela-León. On the other hand, existing statistics prefer to reflect the death rate of people per million inhabitants. Galicia occupies the tenth place among the autonomous communities. Third -- and I'm going to finish -- construction and maintenance of roads, important for improving road safety and the basic area of their competition. This chapter was one of the ones who suffered one of the biggest cuts in his investments in the years of Mr Feijóo's Government. Just one data, in the years 2008 and 2009 the investment in autonomous roads represented around 0.8% of the German GDP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u96	...in 2018 it will represent around half, over 0.44%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u97	Thank you. You still have another shift, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u98	I'm done. More than 500 million euros in 2008 has passed to less than 300 in 2018. I'll continue on the line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u99	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u100	Thank you, President. First, I wanted to tell Mr Pazos a question, and it's rather pathetic that a public representative goes on to understand absolutely nothing of what inclusive language means. It's disrespectful to say, "Sirs." Then he pulled it out, but maybe he should think about why it's... now he's not very interested, he doesn't want to listen to me, but I don't care, then he can watch the video repeated. Yes, I'm talking to you, Mr Pazos. Oh! [[Laughter]] That's clever! Me too, I'm a woman and, look at you, I'm able to do two things and even three at once. But I should think about why we're called "sisters", but you're not called "sisters", or especially why none of us have ever been called "sirits" or "sirits". And with "sirita," we, in our group, more than one had to hear that we were "siritas, pardons, ladies." So maybe I should think about what you have no idea what inclusive language means, no idea!, and think a little bit... yes, you! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, yes, you should think about what that means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u101	Not dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u102	...in inclusive language...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u103	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u104	...and why women have been claiming to be named because we don't exist. And another question too, which is quite a masquerading attack on its part and also on the side of the councillor. We are talking about women here, and we have the same capacity — all the colleagues, all the Members — to talk about all the issues, and also about justice. We also have the ability to speak of justice. And we're talking because we're tired of women constantly wanting us to be incarcerated at home and also incarcerated solely on subjects. We want to talk about care and education, but we can also talk about a lot of subjects. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So, Mr. Pazos, think about it, I should apologize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u105	Quiet. Quiet. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, dialogue. Silence! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's go to road safety, please. Silence! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Road safety, please, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u106	Yes, I'm on the subject, but it was essential to make this statement, especially in the vicinity of the feminist strike, which will be historic, after last Sunday's mobilization. The first thing I want to say — and it has already been said — is, of course, that we thought this appearance was very necessary. We're talking about a vital issue. In fact — as has already been noted — we are obviously talking about a very important issue in people's lives, because, in fact, when we talk about road safety, we talk about that, saving lives. What is going on is that, despite the fact that this appearance was necessary, there is no critical balance being made, or an assessment being made — let's say — or measures actually going to the root of the problem are being put in place. And despite denying it, we do believe that they do some triumphalist reading, I wouldn't say too much, as on other occasions, but rather a reading that doesn't correspond to reality, because, if we make a balance of the policies of the last few years, the conclusion is very clear: we talk about the failure of road safety policies because Galicia is still at the head of the fallacy of the Spanish state as a whole. That's why we, of course, celebrate the 2017 data, but what we find very worrying about is the general trend we've been witnessing in recent years. After a decade with a positive trend, we've seen how since the year 2014 that trend breaks and we've seen a negative trend. And, in fact, we want to point out that the data are extremely worrying because we are still in Galicia arguing, for example, the first place in relation to pedestrians and cyclists in the state as a whole. We also continue to have the black dot with the state's greatest paternality in highways, at AP-9. And besides, in the province of Pontevedra, we have the black spot with greater paternality on the road from the entire network of roads of the whole state, in A-55, in Mos. This point is particularly worrisome because it doubles the sinality of the second point with a higher percentage. And besides, we're still counting on the highest concentration of black dots by extension on our road network. That's why we understand that the valuation made is not consistent with this data, that the progress made is totally insufficient, and that we need a more critical assessment of the measures put in place. And above all, we also have to say that we see many contradictions between what they say, between what they say and what they go on. First, I wanted to ask you about education. Since you talked about prevention, talk, give us specific data on how many talks, how many educational centers and how many students. And above all tell us why they refuse to include this issue cross-sectionally in education. And then we understand that one of the greatest inconsistencies they also have is that, on the one hand, they talk about their betting for improving road safety, but at the same time they are progressively deteriorating the safest transport for land mobility; in this case we are talking about rail. In a very clear way, their policies only prioritize individual transport over any means or any other form of mobility. They are, in fact, a priority for transport with greater tenderness. That's why we don't understand that they don't talk, as we've already said, about collective transport, because talking about road safety is also very linked to talking about the Galician transport plan, which is where we saw the last evidence of the Galician board... that they are really proud of their transport plan is to rethink it. [[Laughter]] They should think of how they are very satisfied with a transport plan made solely with economic criteria, which do not correspond at all to reality, which is done with Google Maps by companies from outside, which does not fit into reality, with which there were many problems, that there are bus lines that do not arrive and that there are many villages in the country that do not have a proper transport. I would ask them to reflect, to really open up a debate in society, with social agents outside this Parliament, and to really make self-criticism. Because this transport plan is obviously a disaster. But obviously we need another transport plan that fits into other public policies for another country model. I also think it is important to talk in part about the safety of pedestrians and cyclists. On the one hand, because despite the fact that in all speeches all parliamentary groups — including the Government — seem to agree with the potential of this form of mobility, then in practice they do not clearly bet on this form of mobility. In fact, he spoke of the Roadmap and the Plan for the Creation of cyclists and peonists, but as always, this is a lot of literature and then, in practice, it is a failure, because many of these cyclists do not meet the minimum safety requirements for pedestrian and cyclist mobility. And it's not the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, it's the opinion of the collectives who already know. We need bike racing, we need mixed racing, but above all we need them to be done well. Another of the causes we understand that the road network is not safe is that the highways that twist our country pass through the center of many populated nuclei and does not contain traffic calm measures in the urban hull. There are many examples; I'm going to give you just one, for the amount of time that's been claimed by the Town Hall and the neighbors, which is the PO-551 at their passage through Marín, Bueu, Cangas and Moaña. It has been demanding for a long time that action be taken, and even claim to be able to take action, that they have almost had to have a touch of attention to paint steps of sidewalks in the municipality itself. These are issues that should be raised by the Council of Galicia, but which, despite the fact that this claim has been repeated on numerous occasions, have not heard at any time. And also, when we talk about road safety, we have to talk about the adequacy of signals and speed constraints depending on the section of the track, as the current draft of the DXT Traffic Regulation collects. We have already brought forward proposals and initiatives on this issue to implement these issues set out in this Regulation: measures to calm down traffic, to create urban rounds where we have high average vehicle indices. The People's Party voted against. So we don't understand why they really bet, but they only use this appearance to do some propaganda and give a couple of headlines, but they don't really want to fix the background reasons. And finally, if we talk about road safety and collective transport, of course we have to talk about the relationship of the Greek Government to the Central Government. The debt of Development with Galicia never answers on its part. Run data is there, around 50% run. We need greater firmness and that this historical debt is actually paid off. We therefore understand that what is needed is political will, to place at the heart of decisions always the common good and not only economic interests — as has been done by the Galician Transport Plan. And decisions must always be made by prioritising collective transport, the interests of this majority, and not just those of a minority. That's why we, despite what the counselor finished saying, think we're not going the right way. We need it to be done a lot more, and above all we understand that there is a lack of ambition and that there is also a great deal of speculation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Quinteiro, I just want to tell you very briefly that I am a woman, that I am a People's Party and that I don't feel in any way imprisoned or that no one wants to have me recruited. I'm sorry that you come to this gallery — you, you have already put some example of language in which equality was involved — with a speech so clumsy and at a time when there's a lot to do, certainly. I don't think he's contributing anything to those demonstrations you're talking about. [[Applause]] Look, truly, Counselor, I want to congratulate you, thank you for this attendance, in which you have just noticed the efforts of the German Government to reduce the sinisterness on the Greek roads, and in a very special way the number of victims, both the deceased and the injured. And let me also remind you of all those victims, all those serious injuries that have left their lives or their health on the Greek roads, especially those that have done so in the last year, and also our desire would be that none of these unfortunate tragedies and also our recognition to all the collectives who work for road safety. Look, you've just questioned the presence of the Counsellor, specifically the Socialist Group has just said why he appears now, four years later. I would tell you that it is truly regrettable that you raise this question when you would also have to do something self-criticism, because we have a road safety commission in two legislations that you have not been able to achieve a dictatorship. I think this must also be present, and while the Government of Greece has continued to work on a road safety plan, from 2011 to 2015, now with a road safety plan 2016-2020, therefore, I think that, far from triumphalisms, it seems to us that it is a plan that must not be attacked, because we believe it is a plan that deserves our congratulations, not only for the content of the plan itself, but also because if it was given participation in its elaboration to other departments of the Union, to other administrations, even to collectives who have made contributions; what we do not know is what their proposals were, because the Road Safety Plan also came to Parliament, then we would like to know why that demonstration of its refusal to share the plan with society, which was not a participatory plan, when you know that many collectives participated in it. He asks why they didn't show up with the others in 2016. Listen, because the plan was approved in February 2016, and logically it seems to us that we have to give it a time, a journey to implement these measures. And, of course, they're talking about the reduction in budgets for road construction. This was how the spokesman of the Socialist Party and also the spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block, who demanded more resources. With regard to the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block, you can hardly understand that you have raised here a question that has to do with resources, especially when you in your amendments have greatly reduced the resources of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency; therefore, many of the infrastructures and the measures being implemented could not be implemented with those proposals that you made. Because, look, they were proposing to reduce the Agency's budget by 74 million euros. We are faced with a plan that this government has given a significant increase, 48% has just told the Counsellor, more than 80 million euros devoted to actions in road safety. And you were proposing a reduction in this budget that reduced it by 74 million euros. You will explain to me, Mr Bará, what I intended to do with this reduction. But it doesn't go too far In Marea, which reduced the stakes to EUR 43 million. So, look, little credibility has to come here asking for more resources if when you have the opportunity to make these proposals. And when I referred earlier to the question or criticism made by the Socialist Party of why the Counsellor now appeared, because it also drew attention to what you were not able to ask for before that appearance, or to think about how many times they asked the Greek Government about the issue of road safety; therefore, these reflections must be done when you come here in this direction as well. Look, to us, this plan, Counsellor, seems to us that with this budgetary increase it is a demonstration that the measures that collect the plan by the year 2018 will continue to be implemented and, therefore, that it will continue to work on improving road safety. But I would like to refer to all these measures which have just been taken into account, and I specifically want to refer to the firm's reinforcement plan. Look, it's very important, because some of the elements that affect road safety and the production of accidents — as the advisor said — are: the state of the roads, the state of the vehicles and, also, human behaviour; the conduct of all those who are involved in road safety, whether as drivers, as cyclists, as pawns or as motorcyclists. In fact, I would like to make a reference to the Winter Sustainability Plan, because it's very close and because I think it's a demonstration of what -- and it's also very recent -- must be control, prevention and diligent action on road safety. And I remind you, in particular, that in this sense there is an operation that has worked perfectly, Counsellor, in recent months in relation to the risks that represent the inconsistencies of time, and in view of that, to take advantage of the comparison, I would like to set as an example this set of example scenario that gave the Deputy of Place where hundreds of tons of salt disappeared and there was no salt to meet these needs. So you come here to demand, to claim, but where you govern neither do nor manage with the slightest diligence that requires this matter. With regard to the reinforcement of the firms, the budget allocation for 2018 increases from 15 million to 20 million euros, which confirms this commitment by the Government of Greece. The same thing I can tell you about the Roadmap, it's true that Mr Bará doesn't like the tracks, but we have 70 kilometers of trails that we didn't have two years ago, and they're going to increase in another 100 kilometers. You won't like it, but it's a way of ensuring the safety of cyclists, pedestrians, who not only in the sports field, but also in the field of displacement, favors a sustainable displacement. And I would also like here to take a look at the reinforcement of the firm, the improvement, the conservation of roads, because when we talk about road safety, we cannot only refer — although we value the data — to the Greek community, because in Galicia it not only responds to the Government of Greece regarding the conservation of its own roads, of which they are autonomous, but there are other roads of ownership of other administrations that also have to be committed to this objective of reducing the number of accidents and the number of fatal victims on our roads. And I mean, there's an example, or on the contrary, that shouldn't serve as an example of what's happening. For example, in the province of Lugo 4,112 kilometers of provincial roads, little less than that of Junta and that of 23 million euros. Now, in Lugo in recent years, it turns out that between 6 and 9 million euros were earmarked, and this year a single plan is made for a commitment to the People's Party to be able to meet the poor and the poor and miserable state in which the provincial roads are located. But I'm talking to you about Pontevedra, where the decalogue of performances indicated that it was not recommended, or restricted, performance on roads that had a traffic frequency below the 3,000 vehicles daily. Listen, if we keep in mind that the largest percentage of accidents occur in the vicinity of the home itself and, of course, on conventional roads, you will tell me what situation remains in the countryside of the province of Pontevedra. I mean, on the other hand, Mr Bará, who tells you about the model, your successful model of the Nationalist Block in Pontevedra. But how can you compare the road safety of a city with the road safety of conventional roads and highways, of the highways of the Galician community? Actually, what you want is to restrict, you want to limit, because look, on the roads cars exist, eh! This can be done by pedestrianizing an entire city, but what you can't do is in an autonomous community to absolutely restrict the movement of vehicles. He was also talking about the signaling of the black points of concentration of animal accidents, when you know, because it's in the Road Safety Commission, that right there, we were told that we could not exceed the signaling, because there was a moment when it was not useful, and if we put the signaling in three kilometers and the other three kilometers we repeated it again, because the effectiveness of that signaling was lost. On the other hand, you were talking about Lugo and the figures of Lugo, which says that it is where the number of deceased is lowest; well, I want to remind you that it was where the most deceased was, and I want to remember that in this year it is where the lowest in the autonomous community of Galicia is the number of deceased. So, and you say these annotations on these issues raised by the opposition groups, we, Counsellor, would like to congratulate you, we find this attendance very appropriate, we believe it is very important. Nor did Mr Bará like to have reflective clothing distributed, but we believe that awareness, that education for minors, that providing it and raising awareness of older people that they have to take road safety measures, we believe that increasing the safety of cyclists, increasing the safety of motorcyclists, incorporating the measures they themselves have proposed to this plan seems very necessary and appropriate to us. And I believe that this data that brings the balance of security would go to the Directorate General for Traffic for 2017, which indicates that there is a 28% decrease in Galicia of the number of deaths and that we have passed from 106 to 76, and that this is also contrasting with the increase of 3% in the whole of Spain, because what confirms us is that we are on the right track, that we must continue to work, that we must continue to implement these measures that include the Road Safety Plan 2016-2020; therefore, we believe and, Counsellor — and we congratulate you — that these measures give their fruit, that we can truly achieve that goal that has been markedly reduced to 50% by the number of deaths on the Greek roads in 2020 with regard to those that occurred in 2011. We think we're on the right track, because these results that just came out last year indicate it. And, of course, we can't get triumphalists, as you said, because the goal, really, would be that there was no victim. For that, you have to work, you have to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u110	...all together, we must involve the whole society, as you said, but above all, we must involve all the administrations who have responsibilities on the roads that travel through the territory of Galicia and, of course, that each one assumes what he or she is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u112	...in its improvement and preservation. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Replica, Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u114	Thank you, President. Before specific considerations of road safety are taken into account, Mr Bará, since equality between men and women is a very serious but more serious issue also — and also so serious — is road safety. I come here to speak on my own request, none of you have asked for my appearance in matters of road safety. Why? Because we're worried and because we're lying around, we can do it better or less, but of course, worry and dumps in matters of road safety I think there's no doubt about it, work speaks for itself. [[Applause]] Mr Bará, you speak quite frivolously of the Roadmap, and I think it's a terrible recklessness, I don't know if you think I'm going to design and measure the path and do it myself, it's unwise to disqualify the technicians of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. It's a matter that I see repeatedly in some political groups, the public authorities are going to put budgets and measures that we consider strategic, such as road safety, which, I insist, has increased by 48%, and I can transmit and explain to Mr. Fernández without a problem, and that's, if I don't say so, but it's certainly a frivolity... it seems that we don't want to make the road map. And by the way, Galicia's Natural Mobility Plan on a concrete scale of the districts is the Galician Road Plan. That's right. Mr Bará, as I've been in the Administration for many years, and in the General Infrastructure Directorate earlier, I can assure you that it is. Materializing an alternative mobility plan is materializing how we are doing, running sustainable, safe paths. Looks like you don't want us to go on a course. Of course, I don't mind performing useful and safe paths for pawns, which are vulnerable users. And, Mr. Bará, sincerely, giving lessons of security would any come; it would lack less!, it must be constructive. But speaking of Pontevedra moving me on the subject of public transport and road safety in a municipality, setting the example for me, that has no urban transport is tremendous, of course. In public transport, the competence of the Galician Union, the easy thing is to ask the others, work the others, I demand the others; first demand yourself and then demand the others. But in a municipality where there is no public transport or som, or you can see it in the short term... so rigor, rigor in matters of road safety... I'm going to make more of what I mean and not go through the branches, but it's true that I'm also surprised at your bet on road safety and setting the example of Pontevedra Town Hall, with which you're looking at the boat bridge. Yes, yes, yes, yes, Your Honor, please! Yes, yes. The truth is, you're talking here as if the county of Pontevedra was a reference, and a reference to a subject that you know you can widen the borders by shortening traffic lanes where there's no roadside the problem is pedestrian and road safety. And, therefore, with road safety, you won't play or will you play the technicians of the Galician Infrastructure Agency, nor will we. Just by painting, painting is very nice and it looks very good, but reality is what it is, and with reality, of course, security would travel to Galician Union and this councillor will not play. He also spoke of the difference in performances and by setting examples, the city of Pontevedra with respect to the interurban pathways of the Galician Union; I believe that we cannot mix concepts, different traffics, different mobility, local traffic, long distance traffic. Mr. Bará, let's not mix concepts, which for concepts are already the technicians, who know how to put matters right. I want to move that it was a plan on 2016-2020 participatory, we incorporate approaches of many social agents that we talk to them, which were concrete with specific measures, with that base text that I commented on in my first intervention, which served to debate with all social agents; I, of course, cannot relate each of the people we talk to. I've been moved that I haven't talked about transport, etc., but well, I can mention all the sectors and all the agents we could talk to, victims of accidents, ordinary road users, drivers, pawns, cyclists, drivers, pilgrims, senior groups, youth associations, transport sector, representatives of medical centers, psychotechnics, self-schools, training centres, vehicle manufacturers, engineers, etc., etc., insurance companies. We talk to lots of people, everyone who wanted to talk, social agents. And those approaches and measures. You had the opportunity to bring the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan closer together, you had the opportunity. I sent the Galician Parliament a document, I'm still waiting for its constructive arrivals. They didn't make any, the slightest consideration or observation to the constructive approach to the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan. So the easy thing is to talk about other people's work, but anyway, I suppose in the constructive spirit that we're all involved in road safety, I think those approaches that they could do would be important. Mr. Fernández, you spoke of the year 2014, here we are talking about the Road Safety Plan 2016-2020 at your own request, it was your own request, none of you asked for my presence in road safety, which would then come to talk about road safety. And you talked about reflective elements. I allow myself to be here in the gallery to comment on the reflective elements of the Bipartite era. Because I'm right, when I got to the General Infrastructure Directorate, it seems that there was very little money, there would be to think and innovate, and to find and become more efficient. Thousands of vests in closed boxes! that we had to recover and do it constructively, use the professionals — that is DXT and the Civil Guard — to share these reflective elements, which I believe are life-saving elements. And I insist again, he says it's the first time I've come here to talk about road safety. I had two appearances at my own request: a strategic line and that of road safety, it would be less lacking having the competences of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency! And in my four budget appearances I also spoke of road safety. Therefore, some name must have heard, but it should not have worried him; but in my appearances here in Parliament I always spoke, when I had occasion, of strategic lines and of road safety budgets. And here you speak of public transport. Mrs Quinteiro, of economic criteria; also Mr Fernández and Mr Bará. I really say it, I don't think the opposition is too legitimized to talk about public transport by scandalously supporting the arguments of the employer of large transport companies. Because if it were for you, Galicia was out of public transport, and we could...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u116	You have followed the arguments of the transport companies, that they do have economic criteria, of course! You on the side of the companies, threatening, threatening to leave Galicia without public transport, because the companies gave up general transport lines and you backed up, leading that demand. And what government has implemented the Metropolitan Transport Plan? That Metropolitan Card which is a real social bonus, a social transport plan to improve public transport and to give ease to public transport? It was this government that grew more and more and more municipalities want to get closer. Who or who has implemented the New People's Card so that the under-nine-year-olds in those interurban, metropolitan areas, where the Metropolitan Transport Plan is implemented, can travel free of charge in public transport? It was this government! You haven't been in cities that, of course, do not support implementing this measure for the under-nine-year-olds, such as the Town Hall of Coruña, the Town Hall of Ferrol or the Town Hall of Santiago, to implement this measure of the New People's Card so that the undernine-year-olds can go on a bus free of charge and encourage public transport. [[Applause]] And you talk to me about the Town Hall of Coruña. In the urban bus entry plan to the center of the Coruña—yes, some laugh, but we're talking about a very serious topic, and if they talk to me about public transport, because I'm talking about public transport related to road safety—the only thing we've found was a trap; they didn't care about the technical criteria for getting in the buses if there were a lot of jams. For reality has come to give reason to common sense. And, of course, we're working with the struggle so that we have better public services as well as railway services; so public transport lessons, I think, of course, there should be none. And Mrs. Quinteiro, even further, that you tell me about road safety when the Council of the Crown — its group of the tides of Podemos — confuses road safety with the safety of the amphibians, I'm quite surprised, because that's what they're thinking at Alfonso Molina. And I'm going even further, that you talk to me about road safety in the Town Hall of Coruña when you're drawing very nice plans with expired leaf trees, you'll know that the leaves expire in the middle of Alfonso Molina means that it's a skating trail. So, road safety criteria, we don't get to paint very pretty things, the subject is reality, we manage reality and know exactly what happens at intersections, etc., and we don't design skating clues with the underlying problems. We know, and we know in the Government of Greece, of course, about the work being done here in Parliament in the Committee on Road Safety, we know this work of great interest and, of course, in that committee we will realize, as planned, with the Director of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, and I expect conclusions, that this is a constructive debate to be taken into account, of course, in the Greek Government to further improve everything related to road safety. But I insist, and I fully share what Mr. Fernández has said, road safety is the matter of everyone, of public administrations giving example, putting all means, resources. Of course, we're also asking the State to act on those tracks where we have detected evas, which they also have to act on. Also the deputies, also the municipalities, all administrations must have it as a priority. And the collectives and the political parties, because the truth is, even if all the administrations put all our means, all the plans and actions we want, of course they won't be able to replace prudence and responsibility to the steering wheel. It is therefore irreplaceable to be cautious, to be educated — since we have children in the rostrum — and to have awareness and education in the values of road safety. Very important, because we have to promote the culture of road safety among the institutions and transmit these values to our children, to our children, to our young people. The fact is that the driver from behind, often impatiently, begins to pit because we are standing to pass on to some pawns in pedestrian footsteps, and the truth is that we must all be grateful with the cordiality to the wheel and education and awareness, which I have missed enough in their interventions, by the way, and of course the lack of interest — in my opinion — and after listening to them, and above all to the data, concrete data that I use to transfer them to all present: 32% of the fatal accidents recorded in 2017 were close to home — I believe the People's Party Member said so. We trust ourselves more and, therefore, we go down the guard, we have to be careful. Distractions. Distractions with the mobile are also cases of major accidents, 30.5%. Inadequate speed, we saw it today in the newspapers, 24% at the wrong speed. The safety belt is another life-saving element, many drivers who failed didn't wear the seat-belt. And let me think about the data from the Immelga that transferred just a week ago to the Autonomic Road Safety Commission -- 33 percent of fatal accident victims were positive in alcohol, and 78% of this data tripled the alcohol rate. I think it's a worrying fact about what we should be aware of, especially because of the effects it has on the driver himself, which is driving under the effects of alcohol, but, if not, also with the other people who can be affected by the accident. So in our opinion, awareness and education are important, and we also need to redouble efforts in education, awareness and training, and transmit these values also to the younger, to the young, and also to the older, with technical schedules, with awareness campaigns to families from the different councils. And, Mrs. Quinteiro, you're talking about examples of training, but you've already opened a new door to training and education in the younger; there's a subject in second from ESO that is: Sustainable and Safe School Mobility, of free configuration; therefore, a subject that is already in second from ESO. And in the field of the Infrastructure and Housing Council, also linked to the training of public transport professionals, important training courses, safe driving courses — as I also said — for other vulnerable users, who said in my first intervention, like drivers. This Wednesday we will publish a new contract for 16 new training courses to reach 640 people, and these are courses to perfect their motorcycle management. Special attention, therefore, to vulnerable users in the plan, with specific campaigns of reflective elements and distributed by professionals of the Civil Guard and the Directorate-General for Traffic; tomorrow even a new contract with 141,000 euros for the distribution of 33,000 reflective elements, which are true rescue elements. They are 30,000 reflective vests, 20,000 through the DXT and the Civil Guard; 5,000 vests, 3,000 for children and 2,000 for pilgrims through the General Emergency Directorate; 1,500 distributed to the boys through the Education Council within the framework of the Safe School Roads initiative; 900 vests for social policy for older persons and 2,600 for the Galician Infrastructure Agency. And 3,000 corners to collaborate with the Galega Cyclism Federation, so that the cyclists themselves will be seen too. And also talking about education and awareness, another new contract, in my opinion, ambitious, that we will also publish tomorrow in the Official Journal of Galicia, with 120,000 euros, this campaign to reach many more schools, 40 schools, to educate our children, our children. A new campaign, "The heart is on your side," for 7,200 children, 2,400 teaching units to educate on road safety values. And we'll continue to work in collaboration with Stop Accidents to define those habits, those safer itineraries. So by strengthening education, no administration plan can replace devices, it can replace any program, of course, or any work like prudence. Of course, prudence and responsibility must be the values that we must all have, as well as vulnerable users, pawns, cyclists, all road users, and therefore working with all agents and collaborating with the General Traffic Directorate, with the Galega Cycling Federation, with the National Motorcycle Driving School, with Stop Accidents and with the teaching staff of educational centers. So a joint work, a work of all, to work much more and do much more for road safety, and again invite realistic approaches. For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u117	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u118	Counsellor, we miss this meeting and in this debate have, for example, the 2017 road safety memory or the mid-term evaluation of the master plan. With that information and with that data we've certainly had a debate with more documentation and a deeper reflection than has happened in recent years. Anyway, we'll wait for those reports to arrive to give the debate instead. And I insist on what I said in my speech at first. This has to be a broader debate than road safety, it has to be a debate on mobility, because road mobility and safety are totally related. And road safety also has to do with the empowerment of safe means of transport, such as rail. And they have already shown to you yesterday our honourable Members how rail transport is in Galicia; for example, to communicate the towns of the interior, such as Lugo and Ourense, with Santiago, or how the railway from Ferrol to Ribadeo. That's also the reality of road safety in which we have to act, because we have to act on the whole of mobility and we have to promote non-motorized modes of mobility. [[Applause]] We put Pontevedra's experience on the table again — because it's a successful experience, they don't despise it — I told you that with the necessary adaptations, because the fatal victims are being eliminated. And it has much to do with it, Mrs. Rodríguez, for example, with what happens through the journey—the advisor also said. 32% of the victims are produced in close quarters. You blame the victims -- "We relax." No, the victims are never to blame. It's the fault of the person driving and committing recklessly, or the fault of the speed, or the fault is that the roads don't have safe conditions. And we have to act in those circumstances so that if there is a mistake, either one or another, the severity of the accident is as low as possible. That's the reality. Look, I asked you about the 2013 Alternative Mobility Director Plan. I asked you about that plan, Counselor. And don't come to me here saying that the Roadmap is an application of the Mobility Plan, because the Roadmap wasn't on the Mobility Plan, the Roadmap wasn't on Galicia's Alternative Mobility Plan that you hired for 340,000 euros and they've put in a drawer. And I've already told you that, according to the criteria of that plan, these are not the paths you say, the painted borders, they don't meet the requirements for cyclist mobility... Don't come to us with that reading. And he put up a challenge for them: in Commission 2nd or in that non-permanent committee, which ended up being permanent because he's got four laws and he hasn't been able to make a report yet. We'll see what fulfills the legal minimum accessibility width. We show them -- because we saw it and why we measured it -- that some of them don't meet that rule. It is so, but let's go candles, or what they did in wood, for example, on the shores of the sea and who lifted the temporals; we can also see them. We therefore ask you to manage and coordinate from the Galician Union, leading a table of institutional agents, a table of social agents, and to be on the political agenda that coordination and to bet on a model of sustainable, healthy and secure mobility, in collaboration with the councils, with the deputies, with the Government of the State, and also applying advanced criteria, for example, from a gender perspective in the management and impulse of new infrastructures in road network planning, road network planning. We ask you — as you have not told us either — to request the transfer of competences in matters of road safety, traffic and police so that you can act globally from Galicia in this matter. We also ask you to push for the adoption of the necessary state legislation to really advance this issue, and with an advanced perspective. For example, it talks about mobility and not traffic, because traffic ultimately focuses on motorized vehicles, and mobility is a much broader concept, much richer and much more complex. With regard to infrastructure and investment, we told you not only to do palliative actions, but to do preventive actions, comprehensive actions. We've already shown you the map. As regards amendments, I would also like to state to Mrs Rodríguez that the BNG has proposed amendments for EUR 4 million, precisely for a plan to improve road safety, pedestrian and cyclist mobility, and accessibility. That's what this plan was for, that's why it was 74 million euros, to change the ratio and proportion of those 561 million euros that say they're going to invest in 2018 and 2019 by the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, and for a greater amount of these investments to deal with this issue. And because, in addition, in the very memory of the year 2016 — which you have shown me that you have not read, Mrs Rodríguez — you are talking about the economic costs of traffic accidents, it does not talk about the human and social costs, which are much higher. But it speaks of 125 million euros per year of accident costs only in the autonomic network. We believe that this figure deserves a much greater investment of resources to really combat this serious problem. Counsellor, you tell me about Pontevedra's public transport. Look, you've been unable to apply and take the metropolitan transport to Pontevedra, to agree with all the municipalities. And it's the only city that still has this question pending. There's no public transport in Pontevedra because there's no need, there's no need. And he also put into practice on his day Mr. Pedrosa — mayor of the People's Party — a bus that went from center to court, and they were the driver and another friend of the driver talking. It was free and nobody was going. Why? Because the distances do not allow public transport to work in what is the urban center, where we also have a system that is called "metrominute" that works perfectly. Yes, don't take your hands to your head, Mr. Moreira, which is like that. So we ask him for an effort, a change of course, we ask him for a wide range of looks, we ask him for ambition. Because Galicia could lead, be a really referent on this issue, if they learn from experiences and if they are really brave and want to change the model of mobility, the model that has to do with traveling safety in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u119	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u120	Thank you again, Mr President. Quieter. Galicia has an average age in the park above Spain. This situation has led to a greater number of traffic accidents, as you well know, Counselor. In the past there were aid to citizenship by the Autonomous Community of Galicia to renew the park. Do you have any new advice in this regard? Counsellor, you know that road planning is an important element in improving road safety. In 2013, Law 8/2013 was approved on Galicia's roads, setting out, in Article 11, that the Plan Director of Galicia's Roads should be carried out, from which the sectoral road plans will derive. This planning should be coordinated with the National Road Safety Strategy and the Road Safety Plans of the Autonomous Community. And it goes to five years of approved law. Does the Road Manager Plan not consider a relevant instrument for road safety? When do you intend to forward to this Parliament the Galician Road Plan? Counsellor, in another area, spoke relatively about the subject, and we believe that public road passenger transport is a real possibility of improving road safety, depending on how it extends in itineraries, frequencies, attractive schedules, intermodality and costs. This is your competition, which has a substantial margin of maneuver. We're now talking about the Pontevedra Metropolitan, but in Ourense the metropolitan areas have signed accession to metropolitan transport since 1993, twenty-five years ago, and we're still the same. We ask him to be active on this subject, and also to abandon the passivity, the conformism, with respect to another mode of transport, of rail transport, managed by the central government and so necessary for the Greeks and the Greeks, and also for the safety of our country. Road safety will also be improving the improvement of medium-distance rail transport and nearby rail transport. Just as you have to raise your voice, in order not to be accused of complicit, demanding the Ministry of Development the execution of the works recorded in the budgets and the inclusion in the Special Plan of Spanish Government Roads as often promised as sometimes forgotten. Roads are an essential element of road safety, as you know, and highways redouble that essentiality of road safety. Even today, the People's Group has the opportunity to show its commitment, or not, to the security it would travel by supporting, or not, a Socialist Group motion that promotes the construction of safe road infrastructures to improve road safety. Counsellor, this clarification of data, most of my intervention of data clarification, times and statistics, would be unnecessary if the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan had been conceived, shared, approved and developed by the whole of Galician society. If not, you use the most favorable data for a purchasing speech. The reduction in the last 15 years of accidents in three quarters — 400 to 100 — is a positive collective consequence that does not correspond to anyone or to any institution exclusively. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the World Health Organization — and I will end this — every year they die in the world about 1.5 million people in traffic accidents. If urgent action is not taken, traffic accidents will become the fifth cause of death in the world in 2030. In 2010 the UN and governments from around the world proclaimed the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020. It is intended to develop a secure mobility system. Apostate to a systematic vision of road safety, in which responsibility lies not only on the driver or driver but also on those responsible for the design and maintenance of road infrastructure, on us and on road management, on the automotive industry, on the police, on politics and politics and on the legislative bodies. The goal is a plan that enjoys maximum adherence as a basis for greater effectiveness and efficiency since co-responsibility, concertation and intercooperation; a plan that is able to maximize the profitability of knowledge, experience, skills and capacities of different agents, each assuming its role. To finish, let me resume the scope or the pier four that proposes to the UN: "People of safer transit routes are the development of comprehensive programs to improve user and user behavior. The various instruments available, such as traffic regulations, legislation, education and citizenship, are taken into account."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u122	If I may, let us put all the means at our disposal to convert the potential victims of my intervention — all — into actors on the roads with responsible conduct, into permanent activists for the sake of road safety. They will always find the Socialist Parliamentary Group on this objective. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u124	Thank you, President. I'm not going to come in to answer too much to the statements, but I just believe that with their statements it remains evident that they don't just understand inclusive language, but they don't understand any of the demands of the feminist movement that have been claiming for so many years. And unfortunately, I already tell you and I ask you to take a look at the surveys that talk about participation in public life. It is not for this honourable Member, who is obviously in public space, to say that women are held in private life by certain decisions and by certain interests, tell them the surveys; and you can check how many women are participating in public life, how many women continue to devote themselves — for example — to the work of caretakers and how many women have working days and not infernal jobs. So they just contrast with the data and the reality that many women live in our country. [[Applause]] And in talking about road safety, we also have to say, like when we talk about many other subjects, which use demagogy in a very clear way. It seems that only the People's Party has the will for dialogue. We have the will of dialogue, but of course, what we want to talk about is clearly and we do not agree with the assertion that we are on the right path. And it's not that we don't agree because we want to go against the People's Party. Obviously, we have celebrated the 2017 data, but the trend since 2014 is clear and I am not going to reiterate myself. We just think we need to understand that we're on a negative trend and we'll have to think about what's going on. Another of the issues that I think should be out of the parliamentary debate — not the first time used — is that when we criticize a certain political decision, we are criticizing the workers, the workers or the techniques of the Galician Union. No, we criticize the government, who makes the political decisions. So they stop twisting the arguments this way rather demagogic because they know exactly what we're saying. And when we talk about, for example, their paths and that they are not used for mobility and security, not that we say, neither does Mr Bará say so, but that is said by the cyclists' groups. In many places there are painted edges of another color that have no minimum width. So they should think about what they're doing wrong so that these paths often fail to comply with the minimum standards. And then I'm going back to saying it's amazing that they repeatedly praise the Public Transport Plan, which was totally improvised, without any kind of dialogue, and really defend the indefensible. Because who almost left Galicia without transportation doing illegal extensions? Were the opposition groups or was it the Government of Galicia? It was the Government of Galician Union. So, if they want to move forward, let's stop criticizing the fact so far, they make a different decision and open up, for example, the Bureau of Dialogue, our proposal to start a real dialogue with all the agents involved. And I am glad that they talked about the municipal tides, because we have to say that every time a government of these municipal tides proposes measures that affect road safety in cities, they vote against systematically: to increase the areas of speed reduction, for a lot of initiatives, the People's Party systematically votes against. But despite that, the tides are drawing out a lot of measures; a lot of medium-term thinking, because they are not only about propaganda, but about measures designed to make cities more accessible, designed for people and with a medium- and long-term perspective. He also talked about some performances and we wanted to highlight the incoherence of selling this as very positive. For example, in the actions being carried out at PO-308 to improve the safety of the most vulnerable people, you know that this project has been negatively evaluated by cyclists groups. They don't want to talk about these evaluations. No action should be taken on its own; it will be necessary to assess the type of measures to be implemented and to ensure that they comply with the rules. For example, in this particular case, they are taking action on this road and continue without adapting the speed and parking areas to the reality that this road has. And then I come back to another question: if you're so worried about road safety, what do you owe the impatience in the low percentages of implementation of foster investments? You yourself recognized the historical debt you had fostered with this autonomous community, so they plan and say that obviously they increase the level of execution. I'm going to finish. I believe that the fundamental summary — and why I don't think you're betting — is to put collective transport, people's needs at the center. And we cannot continue to allow this level of neglect, for example, also with rail transport. It's been commented on, it's a shame the railway situation in our country. That's why he has our full collaboration, but to take forward real measures, decided public policies, not only to make announcements that are almost never concrete, or that are concrete by taking forward measures that are insufficient and that are poorly carried out. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, you say that I don't read the memory, that you don't have any information, that demands the 2013 Master Plan... because if you've read the Road Safety Plan and even the traffic balance that has just been presented, there's a lot of data, more than you could possibly give you a 2013 document. Look, you come back with Pontevedra and, specifically, with the budget — and then I'll refer to Pontevedra. As for the budget, I have to tell you that it's not true. You were either reducing or proposing to reduce the budget of the Infrastructure Agency by 74 million euros and you were destined for health care. What you just said is not true, so you will already explain to me what road safety measures, what infrastructure, what improvements, what conservation would be done with that budget that you proposed. Look, the counselor has already told you: that is to say, back with Pontevedra... these are completely different ideas. A proposal for a city's peonalization cannot be compared to the needs and mobility of an autonomous community. In any case, you're going to propose today — and that's also road safety, aren't you? — And, precisely, with regard to the paralysing of A-57, what do you think? I'm asking you the same thing because it's going to start public transport. Well, look, the data believe that most accidents occur on conventional roads, so we have high-capacity roads too. I'm asking you about this circle, but I'm asking the tide for the paralyzing of A-76, for example. So you come here with a speech, but then your ideas are different. Look, a demonstration that Mr Bará made seemed to me little responsible. He says the victims are never to blame. He said before that, as far as the conduct was concerned, drastic measures, traffic content measures and therefore physical measures had to be taken. Look, I think that's a mistake, and I think it's an irresponsibility here, because I think the measures that you just realized and that you just announced the advisor, in the sense of directing them to education and awareness in the mind of minors, but also to older people, so that they are aware of the preventive measures they have to use, they seem very important, and that you minimize the importance of these actions, I don't think I'm responsible. I believe that among all of us we must move that message to society: that we are all participants, that security would affect all of us and that we must all take the measures that correspond to our responsibilities. You say this plan has not been coordinated; but, of course, when you were given a transfer, you did not participate in any way either. The advisor just said they didn't participate at all. It speaks of sustainable mobility, but instead rejects the paths. And then there's one thing I have to explain, because, look, I, from the perspective of gender on the roads... I can understand the perspective of gender... sorry, in a lot of things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, but look, the perspective of gender on the roads is something that I'm going to have to explain, because I can understand the performance with respect to older children, with respect to certain groups and people with disabilities; but what is your approach with regard to women on the roads? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What is the approach that, really...? What do you think? I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But precisely on the roads, we circulate women and we circulate men and, therefore, I don't know if this has any connotation that I'd rather not value.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u127	Stop a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u128	Look, I was just saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u129	Stop a moment. Let's see if there's... I'll stop time for you. Quiet, please, so you can listen to who's talking. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u130	With regard to the spokesperson for En Marea, he says that decisions are criticized, in some way, questioning the actions of technicians, when they are political decisions. I would like to remind you that, very recently, in Commission 2nd, we were considering an action with technical criteria, according to technical criteria. A Greek road in which an opposition group argued that it had to have a certain width which was not technically possible. Hey, here we are, on the criteria of the technicians or on what criteria? And you say, "No, they're criteria..." Listen, no, no, you were even questioning the technical criteria, so I think these issues need to be rigorous. Look, Mr Fernández, indeed, we are all at a great opportunity. Road safety is something that affects us all. We must all participate in it. We're all likely to suffer the consequences of an accident or a disaster, or we've suffered them already. And so when you say, "Let's make all the means available to be permanent activists for road safety," I can subscribe. I believe that this Road Safety Plan puts every means possible; I believe that the challenges posed are ambitious; I think that, if we work together, we can achieve them. To me, frankly, it seems to me that this audience of the Counselor to realize what is being done and what is going to be done in the future is very important. But this data that we have just given with regard to the awareness and awareness of society as a whole is fundamental, because as many roads as we do, as many new vehicles as we have, if we are not all aware that there are certain actions, certain behaviors, which we cannot observe — and it is said in the field of alcoholemia, in the field of driving under the effects of drugs, the distraction to the steering wheel is told — if we do not correct all those elements, it is very soon useful that we have the best roads and the best vehicles, because we will continue to have accidents. So it's a set: acting on all the elements that have a fundamental impact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u132	...in the result of sinality. Therefore, Counselor, congratulations to this audience. Thank you for your work and your team and invite you to continue working in the field of road safety, because ultimately all the Greeks are beneficiaries of these jobs and these measures. For our part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Close this meeting, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u134	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández, I insist again, on the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan participated who wanted to participate. We regret that the opposition groups did not participate in the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan when we moved it to the Galician Parliament, as it was moved in November-December 2015. Mr Bará, all the documentation relating to traffic memories, once it is finished, is found on the website of the board. So maximum transparency with traffic memories and spare memories, which we put on the website when they're fully finished. With regard to the Pontevedra Metropolitan Transport Plan — which you bring back to this chamber — I can move you, but in a few weeks' time, we'll make a proposal. I hope you have the opportunity to get involved and join the Metropolitan Transport Plan, to see if it proves that it is true that you bet on public transport, because it became clear to us that, of course, it does not bet on urban transport in Pontevedra City Hall, as it should be. In any case, we don't want to be buyers, at all, I've already said it at the beginning of my intervention. We won't be satisfied as long as we continue to have fatal victims on our roads. And, of course, in any case, we'll have done something right when certain collectives or some training publicly recognize our work. And she talked a lot about the cyclists here, Mrs. Quinteiro. I can transfer to you that the Galega Cyclism Federation has granted us very little the Safe Cycling Prize; therefore, we would have done something right, I say. [[Murmurs.]] I insist, without being successful and unpurchasing, because we won't be satisfied as long as we have a single victim in traffic accidents. Another example of public recognition. The representative of citizens in Congress said publicly: "The Galician Union is acting and doing so very well." Other political formations are recognizing the work we're doing at the Galician Union, and that doesn't mean that we're buying, it means that we're encouraged to keep working, then rolling and working for road safety, a matter that concerns us. [[Murmurs.]] That's why we're still working with means, with measures, and we've obviously realized a matter that we consider important, which is guided by this 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan; we have this roadmap outlined in this plan with the horizon in 2020. A plan — I would like to stress — that it was participatory, that participated who wanted to participate, who is alive and that during my interventions, especially in the first intervention, I saw detailing how it was prepared, as it was broken down, which are the concrete measures and which are the objectives and how they are being developed, actions underway, other actions to which we are going to continue, other new actions, 44 concrete and specific actions in that plan in which all the agents are involved in developing them. We would like to bring this security plan back to Parliament because we are in the equator, in the middle of the vigil of the plan, and we have done so at our own request, to take stock of what has already been done and to schedule the work that remains to be done. It's a good time. A few days ago we met the 2017 data. We seemed to be able to give visibility to these data and to the causes of this data as well, of the fallacy of the year 2017, and to draw attention to the causes too, and to make a reflection among all of them. Each of us has our share of responsibility for road safety and, of course, administrations must lead with public measures all the necessary means to continue to work, all administrations, not only the Unity of Galicia: councils, deputies, also the State, of course yes. From the German Government we're increasing our resources. This year, the specific and specific security game has increased by 48%, because we want to focus our efforts on road safety, and in recent years we have been putting special emphasis on other initiatives, initiatives that follow, which will follow the firm reinforcement plan, which has already taken an important investment in 2016; between 2016 and 2017 we are operating in 1,000 kilometres, 20 million euros this year — hence, increasing 5 million euros more — to act in more kilometers. The Galician Roadmap, which does not like Mr Bará, which does not want us to do it, but we will, of course, continue to bet on the Galician Roadmap as public authorities and as public administration, putting the money and with the technicians designing the technical criterion; we will continue to bet on it. So in two years, 70 kilometers have been executed, and we want to keep moving forward to execute those 170 kilometers that we've committed to in that road safety plan. And also in the next few months, we'll intensify the accident reduction strategy on all autonomic roads; 52 thirds of accident concentration, Mrs. Quinteiro; it's not an ad; it's a reality of a long-term job identifying, making projects and submitting them to public information. No announcements, commitment and work and dumps with road safety. 98 actions, EUR 12 million which are implemented in those projects already developed or under development. I think it's a very important measure to act in those few 90 kilometers of the autonomic network where 18% of traffic accidents with victims occur. And so, I think we'll make it a remarkable way to improve road safety and I hope that from the municipalities that have government responsibilities they support, they don't put traps in order to be able to execute this elimination of accident-concentration truces and we can execute them to implement this measure. It is also important for the Ministry of Development to carry out similar actions, and we have sued it, as we agreed in this Parliament. And I insist again on an initiative, the most important measure, which is awareness, education and awareness. Tomorrow — I insist — in the Official Journal of Galicia, three new contracts in awareness and education in road safety; 16 new courses of safe driving for drivers; acquire 33,000 reflective elements, which are 33,000 life-saving elements for vulnerable users; and lead to 40 schools, 7,200 schoolchildren, that awareness campaign and education in road safety, "The heart is on your side". Awareness, education and awareness-raising, therefore, for vulnerable users, with an investment by the Galician Union of almost EUR 400,000. We continue to work and we will continue to work towards that goal that we have set out in the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan: 50 percent reduction in fatalities from 2011 to 2020, on the line marking the European Union. Everyone's effort, everyone's work. We cannot — I insist — be satisfied while we have some mortal victim and some victim on our roads, but to persist and insist on these campaigns of awareness in prudence and responsibility, in addition to efforts. I insist again: no management plan can replace the responsibility and prudence that we all must put into practice and we, as public officials, set an example. Collaboration, common work. Road safety is everyone's business, joint work of the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan, in which he participated who wanted to participate — I insist again — an open plan where we all add and we want them all to continue to add. In mid-March, therefore, this month, we will hold a day with the main social agents involved in road safety: victim associations, collectives, drivers, cyclists, Directorate General of Traffic, Civil Guard etc., etc., to follow this plan, a channel of dialogue from collaboration and the sum of efforts, which is why we bet on road safety. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u135	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended until 4:00 p.m., 16 hours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u136	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the second item on the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the reform of the system of autonomous financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u137	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u138	Mr. Fernández Leicea has the floor to formulate the defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u139	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are. The first question I ask myself is whether this effort we are making for Parliament to take a decision on the points that Galicia must defend in the reform of the new financing system is a useless effort or not, i.e. whether there will be reform or no reform. Last year, in January, we adopted a number of aspects with the idea that in 2017 -- because that was Mr. Rajoy's commitment -- there would be reform of the model, but we're already at the end of the year, we're already in March, and it doesn't seem to be too much progress. The experts quickly deliver us very interesting documentation at the end of July, but from there everything slows down much more. He's still working but a short time ago. The electoral schedule doesn't favor it. The lack of effective government in Catalonia introduces an additional difficulty, because Catalonia has to be in the reform of the financing system. And I am also not quite clear whether the will of Mr. Rajoy's Government is too favourable for there to be a new system just before the autonomous elections, especially because in this context, in which there are so many cross demands on public resources, a reform of the financing system means making available to others, in this case autonomous communities, which mostly do not govern, a very important amount of resources. The fact is that the experts told us in July that the system in order to be able to recover — we have sufficient capacity in terms of measured spending capacity as a percentage of GDP before the crisis — needed a minimum of 16 billion more. Autonomous communities lost weight in social spending. This has produced cuts, and if we want to reverse the cuts, we would need to make it available to the autonomous communities of the set of additional 16 billion, so improve autonomic funding. The fact is that a year ago we were unable to get the People's Group to support this idea. Today I congratulate myself: it seems that, according to the amendment tabled, the number has been encouraged, but there is a formulation that allows the People's Group to agree that there is a need for substantial increase in autonomous funding, a figure that experts have entered into by 16 billion. I was already on our proposal a year ago. We're glad it's finally rectified and it's getting to a similar position. What you still don't assume -- and I regret it -- is that Galicia cannot lose relative spending capacity. The People's Group accepts in its amendment that it does not lose absolute spending capacity, therefore, that the status quo criterion is maintained before, that, on the other hand, it is not too difficult to think that this revision of the model of self-financing also contemplates it, insofar as it is a constant of all the previous reforms that no autonomous community has lost money in absolute terms, and therefore does not seem too difficult to make this effort. But it's not about this. It's about not losing either in relative terms. And why? Because in recent months we have learned that, in addition to the formalised mechanisms of the system of self-financing, we have taken into account the extraordinary financing mechanisms through the Financial Facility Fund and the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, Galicia is below average in terms of funding. And, therefore, for us it is irrevocable that there is no regression in relative terms; therefore, it is still on average. And this should be a common position for all of us. And yet we are not able to get the People's Group, at least by reading its amendment, to this point, which we regret. But we think we can't go back in comparative terms. Without the extraordinary mechanisms, we're slightly above average; with the extraordinary mechanisms, we're below. If the Popular Group sees it as a plausible scenario that we go a little further, this for us is not at all acceptable. And I ask: of the additional 16 billion you assume that they should approach the model of self-financing, how reasonable would it be for you to arrive at Galicia's public archives to strengthen public health, education and social policy services? How reasonable would that be? So it seems to us that between 1,000 and 1,100 million would be a reasonable figure, which has been slightly less than 7%, 6 and peak percent, of the total, which corresponds to about our weight in terms of adjusted inhabitants when we leave out of the calculation — as it should be — the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and that of Navarre. Finally, in relation to debt, we're talking about restructuring or forgiveness. Possibly forgiveness is a superfluous term, because restructuring can also be total and therefore it can indicate that there is a discharge — let's say — for the whole community, either a formal discharge or either through the establishment of a perpetual debt, which implies that communities will not have to return it until there is an exceptional event. Finally, it seems to us that this is a matter of realism. We believe that extraordinary funding mechanisms have to have a deadline, because they are extraordinary and because they introduce discrimination between communities that need to be resolved. It also seems to us that in order to do so, it is necessary to reduce the debt burden for some autonomous communities; if you are not in a bank, you have to go back to the market; but if you do this, this should be available to all communities. And this is equal treatment, which is what we argue must happen, which makes it easier — I say — to return to the community market, to the debt market. Because this would mean that public finances are normalized and, in addition, that there is autonomy and responsibility on the part of communities, which are values that must be present in the system of self-financing. I also have to point out to them that there are coincidences and advances, as we've already seen a year ago, which I'm going to indicate very quickly. There is a coincidence that there must be total release; in which the adequacy must be not only in the first year but throughout the system, dynamic enough, with criteria and cost requirements with basic criteria; in which one needs to go beyond the inhabitants, but the inhabitants adjusted. And it seems good to us that they approach our position at another relevant point, as is that the cuts produced in the central government's collaboration for the coverage of the Dependency Care Act are reversed, and it seems to us that this is also an interesting point. It seems good to agree that an autonomous interpretation of the principle of institutional loyalty is needed to avoid, as in 2012, that the rise of the type of VAT that the State produces in a tax that is shared between the State and communities means more resources for the State but zero additional resources for communities. And, finally, a matter which has an interest that transcends Galicia but which I think it is reasonable to highlight the coincidence that exists between the People's Group and the Socialist Group at this point, is that the system of concert, or of agreement in the case of Navarra, should contemplate, as provided for in the Constitution and as provided for in the laws of the concert or the special navarro regime itself, that these communities fully participate in interterritorial solidarity in Spain, which is a criterion which does not affect for anything that exceptional system these communities have, but its results, by bringing the treatment of their inhabitants closer to the treatment that takes place in the rest of Spain. I would like to have a full agreement, especially because discrepancies are justly affecting specific issues of Galicia, but in any case we are going to make an effort from the amendment tabled to reach some kind of agreement that allows us to move forward a position that is favourable to the defence of Galicia's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u140	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, we are faced with an important issue, especially in the current context, because of the influence of the system of autonomous financing on territorial vertebration, also because of the consequences of the application of the last model, all autonomous communities, as a result of the economic crisis, and also logically, because we are talking about the instrument with which we materialize such important principles as the redistribution of income, both interpersonal and interterritorial, and in an especially complicated economic context. Let us remember that autonomous funding is to finance the administrations that spend the most and, in addition, essentially social expenditure, close to 38%, far from what the state already spends — 20% —, social security — 25% — or 12%-13% of the municipalities. The debate is complex and has relevant consequences. It's technically complex. We're talking about the adequacy of forecasting public goods. But it's also politically. And politically, this debate has three dimensions: the first clearly has a state political dimension, since the system of autonomous financing is debated in Congress and approved through an organic law. An organic law requires an absolute majority. We are in a context where there are centrifugal forces in Congress that don't want to go into autonomous funding because what they want is to break up, but there are also centrifugal forces that want to reduce competences and hence the funding of autonomous communities. And this can explain why President Rajoy can compromise the reform of the system of self-financing if, for example, the Socialist Party agrees with the system, with reform, but he cannot do it exclusively, since he is far from the absolute majority and, as I have just said, not all the other groups that are present in Parliament share an autonomous vision and similar financing. So when we're talking about delays, we should ask the PSOE where it is and whether PSOE can provide an autonomous funding system in all parts of Spain as well, which in the People's Party if we try and are capable and are going to do. Secondly, it has a dimension of relationships between autonomous communities. It is true that there are autonomous communities that share interests. Recently, there was an important agreement, regardless of the political parties representing each of the autonomous presidents, in defence of common interests, such as demography, population aging, other circumstances in which funding may condition the development of these autonomous communities; there was an agreement between Asturias, Aragon, Castile and León and Galicia. So, there I think we're doing a job. And there remains a third political aspect, which is the work in this House. Of course, we have already discussed these issues here. I would also like to remind you — as it is now — that there were other autonomous communities such as Asturias, Valencia or Andalusia where the People's Party supported the vision of the proposal given by the Government, for the common interest shared by the citizens of these territories, and we believe that there would be a good deal in this House too. The goal, therefore, is to reach agreements at Congress level with other autonomous communities and also in this House. And we believe that the document that is presented to us is a good starting point. First of all, resource relation, because both static adequacy is established in the first year of the model and dynamic adequacy. Of course, we are in favour of the total levelling of all fundamental public services, and that is why we do not understand — and there is a discrepancy, which we hope can be solved in some way — why we agree on the total levelling according to the cost of provision in each territory of each public service and, therefore, it makes no sense to speak — as requested in the motion — to keep the relative weight on adjusted per capita financing. If the leveling is total, according to the concept of adjusted inhabitants, all autonomous communities will have the same financing per adjusted resident. The concept of ordinaryity and everything else makes sense when the adjusted resident applies to goods, public services, not to the whole system. We also believe that there is a good starting point when it comes to the motion of non-discrimination between autonomous communities for the application of extraordinary financing mechanisms. I believe that the president of this autonomous community has been clear and also influential in the final decision. You can't reward those who haven't met, you open risks for the future of your failure, because the state will come to save those who haven't adjusted their accounts at the time of the fall of public resources -- that's what's technically called "the moral risk" -- and therefore we have to agree that you can help other autonomous communities at the cost of debt, but that doesn't mean a comparative advantage in relation to those who have complied with the pact between all autonomous communities in relation to the deficit. And finally, there is also agreement on the interpretation of the principle of institutional loyalty, which has led to the fact that, nominally, for example, autonomous communities receive 50% of VAT; however, indeed, the consequences of the State's subcontracts are reduced to 37% or 38%. And there must also be institutional loyalty in the delivery of the account. We trust that there are budgets, but if not, through the way of decree. So I'm done. I think it is important that we reach an internal agreement in the Galician Parliament. That certainly means not opening with the motion any other debate, such as the global tax pressure or public spending that must have the whole state or the Autonomous Community. I think it's good that we agree to support the government's management with other autonomous communities that share interests and that it's not good to support autonomous communities that defend their interests, but that they're just the opposite of Galicia's, a question that should meditate on those opposition groups that do not support the previous agreements and that can join the consensus today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u143	...perfectly. I also believe that it is good for us to do everything possible for those who are involved in certain national policies so that, within our political forces, we can reach an agreement, with which we can agree with others in Congress, and reform the system of self-financing, which is indeed good to reform itself as before and by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u144	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u145	Good afternoon. First of all, despite the political differences already found on the model as well as some of the issues raised by the Socialists in the motion and the ones we have already discussed, I do wish to begin by thanking the Socialist Party for the opportunity to talk about this issue, despite these differences, because, as I think we will all agree, this is a matter of vital importance, and we thank all the opportunities offered to speak about it, even more bearing in mind that, in the light of what we have seen this year and the means of legislation, we understand that what we have been living on the financing system does not cease to be a permanent democratic anomaly, because it is true that, except on one single occasion when we have legislation, all the times we have discussed about the financing system were well the initiative of the Socialist Party, as well as the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. We've been legislating for years and a half -- I insist -- and the German Government once, because of political pressure, and we don't know if because of an occurrence of the President of the Government in the control debate of Parliament's session or a conscious matter. In any case, we stayed -- and the socialist spokesman said it two weeks ago -- almost as we were with that appearance; not a single document, not a single concretion. And so the months go by and the chances are that in this time of rule of Mr. Rajoy there is a new model of funding, which, by the way, when he promised to be in 2017, I think the state environment in the Government was the one that is today, nor did he have an absolute majority; therefore, they should not be surprised by the People's Party. As I say, we would like the debate to have been otherwise and that this House really had an active role in this matter, but we see that the People's Party has decided, on the contrary, to live in absolute irresponsibility. And then they'll still expect us to think they'll do something different to obey directly what they say from Madrid. The point is that we have the perception that what matters right now is that this debate dies, that it goes unnoticed and that things continue to be as they are. And the point is, for us, that things continue to be as they are now because it's not a good way out for our country. We insist that what is achieved by this future financing system is fundamental, because it will ultimately decide and mark the capacity that this community has to decide on its most fundamental services, and therefore we understand that we should be be betting on a path, not on cosmetic changes, but on deeper reflections. Before we go into commenting on some of the aspects that under our view should be irrevocable, even though we would bet on another model, within this model there are also issues that we think would be important. Before this, I just wanted to say that it seems important to us to introduce the debate around the quit, that we appreciate it being incorporated, even though it gives us the feeling that you are thinking of a very state-wide key that this might weaken Galicia's negotiating capacity in this respect. Another question which is put side by side in the motion, and with which we do not agree — I have to say — at all, and which is also consistent with the position of the People's Party, is that they seem more concerned about what may happen in relation to Euskadi and Navarra that with which Galicia can be strengthened and maintained in this political and economic debate that will take place in the Spanish state within the trains of the nations. And it is also surprising that the spokesperson of the People's Party tells us that we have the opportunity to join these agreements with other autonomous communities. If at some point Mr. President or Mr. Advocate of Fairy had sent us some kind of information about the agreements they had with these communities, perhaps we could comment on something, but for now, as we know, it is through the media, because it is quite frankly complicated. I'll comment now, in my remaining time, on some questions. The previous speakers have already explained that the proposal of the People's Party and the Socialist Party has quite a coincidence. There are issues we don't share. In no case, none of the two alternatives that are placed on the table explicitly bet on a greater volume of resources derived from the distribution of the tax tart between the State and the autonomous communities. We think we have to reverse that decentralization. Nor does it bet on financing new competences with own resources, through percentages of assigning taxes, which we think would be the most appropriate way, nor do we — we have to regret — bet on moving forward in fiscal co-responsibility and autonomy, through higher regulatory competences in taxes. So, we understand that it separates itself from issues that are important and that, without entering into a model change like what we stand for as a political principle, they could squeeze a lot more into the already limited frame in which we are moving. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u147	Thank you, President. It also has to do with precisely the financial adequacy, the public services, the keys to achieving equality between women and men, and it is also a relevant debate, within the framework of March 8, also talking about the economy of care and the benefits to be given by the public administration, an administration that already has the voices and the voices of economy commented on on many occasions that is debated in an unbalanced situation as to the financing of public services, in which, as we have already indicated from the Marea in other debates, the decentralization of the State remains unused when there is no adequate funding according to the coverage of these services. We have moved on to other occasions since our group we have considered Galicia and the rest of the territories which must accompany this decentralization, first with greater sovereignty and tax capacity in the different territories and, secondly, with the breakdown of that underfunding of the services to achieve that sufficient resources. So, first of all, we obviously also defend this imperative need to quantify the actual cost of the services of the autonomous communities, but on its basis of the legal definition, that is, the real cost of the services to guarantee this decentralization and that autonomous communities in this case can assume the whole in objective terms of education, health, social policies and the rest of pending transfers. The absence of this determination and the use or use of compensatory funds without an objective basis for all these years have precisely deepened the inequality between the territories and, of course, inequality in access to services, in the opacity of the system and of course in the discretion with which the Central Government has used this fact at political level, depending on the need for different support at a given time. Secondly, we consider the need — and have already been commented here by the colleagues on other occasions — to mark the income floor that these autonomous communities need, which we also need in Galicia, to maintain the adequacy of the system, the services that have just been quantified or that should be quantified. And thirdly, even if the spokesperson of the People's Party does not like it or does not consider it acquitted, we consider the need for us to obviously talk about the tax system and the financing through the tax system. We, from En Marea, refuse to enter this battle of the poor among autonomous communities, because, considering the need for a system with tax capacity, fiscal co-responsibility and financial autonomy, also believe that, in order to avoid that fight, we must put on the table the need to break up with an economic model that throughout all these years has made it the primary ones who had the most, and in a context — we have moved it in all these debates, and also referred now to the BNG spokesman, all the times in which there was a need to debate this circumstance — in which, despite the economic crisis and this exponential increase in public indebtedness, the People's Party has allowed luxury — inevitable for them, for us obviously avoidable — to cut back those revenues by reducing the ability to assume for the system more resources by means of taxation, which, in the case of Galicia, between 2008 and 2014, 31%. These tax holidays — which we have already indicated on other occasions — of Mr Feijóo have entailed a reduction in income and therefore also a reduction in the capacity to finance public services. And also the fiscal counter-reform in the state as a whole has much to do with the reduction of income in order to distribute, to finance the services of the autonomous communities. We must also remember — and it is not too much — the increase — and we will do it every time we have occasion — of indirect taxes, and of course the inequality that has been created in our country and in the state as a whole, when, of course, the working class people are the most disadvantaged. Fourthly, we also need, with a clear need — we have moved it on other occasions — to audit that public debt, which already enables, fifthly, to restructure public debt, as we have already moved here in other debates, to make it more equitable, applying parameters that result in greater equity among the different autonomous communities, given the financial adequacy, which we indicated at the outset. And, of course, in sixth place, we really need — although, of course, the Government is not so interested in talking about this — the need for inspection that allows the fight against this tax fraud, which has also been debated in this House on other occasions. Therefore, Galicia and the whole community need an increase in income, and from our group we avoid or do not want to fall into that debate among the poor. What we need is to challenge a system that awarded those who had the most capacity for tax vacations and definanced public services on the basis of an increase in debt, which is not sustained and that in the case of Galicia has increased to finance — despite the fact that, as we have already said, it has been less than the average of the rest of autonomous communities — more public debt. So the mismanagement right now is paying for citizenship, and we're going to see what agreement the Socialist Party has reached with the People's Party in this case, because we do agree with some points. We have doubts about how this service is quantified, given that the People's Party has given figures that we consider insufficient for current funding. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Author group of the motion, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u149	Good afternoon again. First of all, thank you for the tone and sense of interventions, which I think are with a constructive spirit. And finally, above all the author group of the amendment, we will try, at the time we have, to reach an agreement, that I will try to be total, but, if not, to an agreement that is the wider the better. In any case, three or four quick comments. First of all, in relation to what Mr. Puy said about the responsibility of the Socialist Party. Who is ruling in Spain is Mariano Rajoy, the political initiative must correspond to him. It's very good that the other political groups and the presidents of the autonomous communities define themselves in relation to a model when they know that model. At the moment, we do not know what the Government proposes as a reform of self-financing, not even as a starting point, so that it can be discussed at the Tax and Financial Policy Council. In some autonomous communities, for example, Andalusia — recently mentioned — the Government of the Andalusian Board has put forward a proposal which has discussed with the other political groups, and, without unanimous agreement, if there was a very majority agreement in the Andalusian Parliament drawing forward. Well, this seems to be government responsibility. Here, like the Government because it has some difficulty making this effort, so others are pleading for it. But, in any case, it's all right, I mean, what it's all about is reaching an agreement. The second question I think is of interest. Indeed, if there is total liberation, there is full equality, in terms of adjusted inhabitants. And we moved the burden of discussion to how to define costs and demand and, therefore, what are the variables that we should introduce or not. So, in front of what happened a year ago in the agreement where we established some criteria, man! it's about to refine a little more, and I think there might be a lot of coincidences there. But we need to know what we're talking about. If the People's Party — as it has traditionally been saying — considers that the 2009 model was a prejudicial model for Galicia and, therefore, that it placed us under the average, to go to a system of total liberation starting from the adjusted inhabitants, we would be able to improve. So there should be no difficulty saying: we are going to be above the current situation and therefore there should be no difficulty in assuming that proposal. I don't think so, but only partially. I mean, according to the system of self-financing, I think we're slightly above average, not too much, but slightly above average. But if we have the extraordinary financing mechanisms, we are already below, if we take this into account. But you just accept that this has to be taken into account and, therefore, we just need to improve. In this sense, while sharing the principle of full liberation, this should allow us to go a little higher in the state of autonomous communities; that is why we raise this question. Anyway, here I understand it's a requirement that you don't want to assume and that we might have a difficulty. And finally, very quickly, to tell Mrs. Noa Presas. Tax autonomy did not introduce it to this motion, there were some indications in last year's motion. In any case, we are in favour of increasing tax autonomy, but it seems to us that the central debate today has to be the other. The central debate today is how we guarantee equal treatment of citizens on the territory. That is to say, the question of equity in the territory, which has to do with vertebration, seems to us to be the central issue, and that is why we bring this series of proposals to this debate. And it doesn't have much to do with us being a nation or anything else. In other words, the debate of recognition of nations in Spain is a closed debate on the issue of financing, in our opinion it has nothing to do with it. We are in favour of a recognition of the national specificities that exist in Spain, but we are also in favour of equal treatment of citizens throughout the territory. And these are debates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u151	...that, in our view, have two different areas of reference. So I hope we can come to an agreement as broad as possible. And, in any case, we will pass this agreement — if we arrive — to the other groups so that they can be positioned in relation to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u152	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. G.P. motion. de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the execution and completion of the partial concentration processes that are being carried out
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u153	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u154	Thank you, President. The motion that we bring today as a result of the questioning of the full past seeks to give some answers to the situation in our rural area, which we understand is worrying, and which, by extension, lives our country. Many times in the 7th Commission itself, and also in this plenary session, we have come to the conclusion that one of the fundamental problems facing our agriculture is the failure of a useful agricultural area. We agreed with the diagnosis, but then we see that the measures taken by the current Government to date are not being used to solve this problem, they are totally insufficient and, in addition, they are not being satisfactory for the objective they were pursuing. One example that reflects this situation — and the data are multiple — is that our farm alone in the last three years has lost 34,000 hectares of useful agrarian surface, which means the continuation of a process that started long ago and which is not being frozen and the necessary measures are not being put in place to prevent this situation. And I also wanted to make it clear that, obviously, when we talk about agricultural restructuring, we have to start from the basis that these are never an end in themselves but they are only a tool, and obviously there are many tools to address this issue. But in addition, we understand that they must also be understood in connection with and in collaboration with the set of land management tools as a whole and also within a specific country model. We understand that the People's Party has a country model and we have a different one. We can't understand how land-uses are managed outside land-uses in general terms. We've been saying that for a long time. Despite the fact that this is the legislation or the supposed legislation on rural life, the People's Party in practice all the measures that are taking forward have no such purpose. What they're getting is that our rural area is getting more and more abandoned, with many less public services, and that less and less population settles in it. That's why we also understand that in order to put proposals and alternatives on the table, we have to make a rigorous assessment of what is being implemented over the last thirty years, which is an absolute failure, and that we have to start a line radically different from the current one. As I said, one of the failures is seen in the current model of partial concentrations. In many decades, a lot of public money has been invested in uniting land, which we see today as many of these have no primary sector-related purpose whatsoever. In fact — as we said in Commission 7a — we were very surreal when the People's Party took an initiative that was talking about setting up a process to assess the agricultural interest for the restructuring of the land and that in the evaluation procedures of agricultural interest they took account of the contributions of the people concerned. And, as we said at that time, of course, the problem is how this criterion was not being taken into account in order to move forward the partial concentrations so far. We think it's a very big irresponsibility. The problems we have today are very much on the surface of our country. Because it is true that there are municipalities — like Ames and Compostela — in which there are many lands that have concentrated, for example, to build chalets, or also as many of these partial concentrations, we see that they resulted in the reforestation of agricultural land. And it seems very worrying to us that this is done convolvely many times by the People's Party. Because we have to remember that a mayor of the People's Party himself, in the Abadín council, issued a municipal order that allowed him to plant eucalyptus on agricultural land, in an area affected by a partial concentration process that is unfinished, and that obviously invades the competences of the Galician Union. It seems to us that this statement of this mayor is very significant and very symbolic of how the partial mergers are understood for the People's Party. We must also point out that the problem is often found in the fact that ads do not come true later, as in many matters. There's a lot of concentrations that are unfinished. In this case they said they were going to finish all the concentrations that were active in this legislation. And yet we see and take stock today that the rate of delivery of securities is being very slow. There are parishes — like the one of Godos, in Caldas — that have been taking proceedings since the year 2001, and that is why many neighbors and neighbors are tired of waiting. Obviously, such a long process also has these problems that, for example, these agrarian lands are reforested. Many people who are affected by these models even claim that it was worse than disease. That is why, in spite of this, we understand that what is to be done is to make public a report on the planning of the implementation and final completion of the 129 active partial merger processes and, above all, that they are being launched with realistic deadlines and that they are also based on the execution rhythms that are being held so far, also on the budget devoted to this program and its degree of execution today. Because we understand that to put measures on the table what is needed in a clear way is a good diagnosis that helps us to have a much clearer map of reality. The situation is very worrying for many farmers and farmers in our country, for many farmers, because we see how, according to the 2013-2016 Agricultural Farm Structure Survey, Galicia drops hectares per farm; it continues to decrease the land base of farms rather than increase. That's why we understand that what we need is to put in place radically different measures and get out of this permanent inaction. There are mechanisms — and the mechanisms have already been discussed in this plenary as well as in the committee — but what is really lacking is the political will to move forward and to coordinate these existing mechanisms. We need budgeting and, above all, we need a conviction — as I said — because it seems that we all agree to avoid forest reforestation in agricultural soils. But what we have to do is not say it, we have to implement the necessary mechanisms so that this is not taken into practice and, above all, we can sanction and demarcate statements like those made by this mayor of the Abadin Town Hall. Another of the issues that we have also been demanding for a long time, and which we think is essential, is to provide the Bank of Lands with human and material resources so that it really works as a tool. This tool cannot work with such a ridiculous budget as this year's budget of EUR 87,500. In practice, the Land Bank is dismantled and it's a tool that needs to be dynamized and which must be used for renting quickly and agilely. So we understand that much more is needed with economic resources and human resources as well. We understand — as I said — that behind this there is a political model. It's no coincidence that people decide not to live in the countryside. There are many policies that encourage people to move in a progressive way to the Atlantic axis and cities especially and nearby towns, because obviously there is a progressive dismantling of public services; many people cannot even move easily in many peoples in our country. Another of the mechanisms we understand that it may be necessary to draw up, as a matter of urgency, a catalogue of Galician soils, where they are classified according to their abilities, with the objective of being the basis of their conservation. And as we also say in this motion, we understand that the said catalogue must be incorporated immediately before its final approval in the Autonomic Basic Plan. And we understand that we need to start from reality, which is a negative reality. We are not catastropheists — I suppose they will use that qualification — but we have to understand that our rural environment is going through a very delicate situation. We've put it many times by manifesto; it's very difficult to continue living in rural areas, we have to let people who want to live there, that people who still want to work in rural areas can keep doing it. We understand that all these issues, the partial restructurings, we have to understand them within rural policies, which are like a global set of policies and also, as I said, as a set of policies for our country: fighting neglect, setting population in rural areas, improving the services made available. That's why we are aware that, obviously, agricultural restructuring itself does not solve this issue, but we understand that these can also serve if we accompany them with a completely different model. And a recurring problem that we have and that we also wanted to express is that many times many mechanisms that are provided for in the regulations are without real application. This is a problem, there is a lot of legislation that remains to be developed and, above all, it remains without real application due to lack of human, economic or technical means. That's why we understand that greater coordination is also needed between the different territorial management instruments that start, as I said, from an integral view of the whole of the territory. And nothing else, simply, obviously these are some measures that can help, what we need is to think about comprehensive policies for our rural, because if we want to defend that the Greeks and the Greeks can live wherever they want, we can't continue with the agenda of the policies applied in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, certainly the partial concentration was anchored in time. When this country needed to modernize itself, and it was in time and time not to miss the whole train of that modernity, the concentration processes were few and controversial due to the tensions of a self-ankylled minifundist society, which in the third third century of the 20th century was out of the second half of the 19th. This process of modernization was abandoned to its own fate from the 1990s, when Europe blinded its beauty of prosthetics and makeup already those who had long decided to leave rural to its fate, because they didn't want to be called pallets. In the meantime, the plot also served spurish interests to the peri-urban management service for better development of brick and cement in what Monsignor Aznar protected and facilitated in that golden period which soon fell to the abyss. There we, since the council of that thing called Bipartito, have left behind all the processes that favored the brick and dedicated ourselves to productive and sustainable land. You see, you're handling those nationalistic reds! What now? Now we're going to have to give you another twist, we're going to have to... or, rather, you'll have to, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, take sides either by the eucalyptus or by the development of the diverse and sustainable rural. Because at this time, after the end of the 19th century, the most dynamic agricultural sector, also the most indebted and intensive, is needing land. Yes, it urgently needs land where the land remains, and it needs sized parcel units according to today's farms. It's not easy to take 100 or 150 heads of cow as they took 15 or 20. They don't even fit in half acre. Someday, not far away, Europe will discover that America our farmers had already discovered and we will have to repair the stress of cows and their products due to the intensification of dairy farms. Europe will take measures to thank you for setting up the minimum spaces for each animal, for its daily walk through a courtyard of that prison, you know, like it happened to the chickens. And urban society, paying attention to the latest announcements, will applaud that measure that will bring out the cows today with a life expectancy of delivery and half, will take those cows out of walking, and will be obliged to what is not profitable today. And for that, what will we do if we don't have the duties done? It will therefore be necessary to refocus the concentrate where needed, and that is another song that has a letter that is not understood very well today, and explains it. Law 4/2015, also called Metaga, regulates the processes of the commonly known as partial concentration. This law has an attachment where the processes that were expired were included, either for the years of stagnation or for several other reasons, which is not the case to bring here. And among them are four who draw attention because they've come back magically, three correspond to Melide's parishes — which happen by chance — and another to an Orders parish, also by chance. That law, called Metaga, was modified in its article 7, they deleted from a pen their point 3 in the Accompanying Law of last year. And what is this point 3 about? The need to justify by means of a regulatory valuation procedure, including an open consultation, all natural or legal persons concerned. Of course, in January of this year, we have already been presented with a non-law proposal urging the Councillory to reinstall this point again. What are they playing at? What are they hiding? You've already given them time to put in those processes that they were politically interested in, friends, caciquism, they'll tell us. Because in Arzua, a land of milk and cheese, a parrot parrot, Burres' parish called for a concentration of mountains and a reconcentration of tillage, because of the territorial base on farms, you know? Larger plots that can be pastoralized. It has an impact study and a topographical survey of what was spent €150,000, I think in that dark period of the Bipartite. And nothing is going to happen to these four deaths, but this one that has justified their need, but not! Disconfident? Yeah, yeah! They'll be wondering what this intervention comes to. Well, he comes to publicize those popular party manoeuvres with the serious things of the rural environment. We are of course going to support this motion, because, although it is partial, it seems positive to us. You go on with your rural legislation speech giving them poles and using words of hope where you plan to put eucalyptus. His contradictions and lies are clearer than ever before, or they ended up believing them. If Metaga is at the service of rural improvement in the restructuring of its area, here is a question, what tools does the Administration have to enable agricultural protection land in concentration zones? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u157	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u158	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we are going to support this motion by En Marea, since it is a matter that we are continually focusing on, because it is crucial for the relaunch of rural areas, such as land, property, structure and mobility. From the beginning of the legislation, we've been told that this is the legislation of the countryside and we've been listening to the promise that the 128 open concentration processes will be completed. But time does not stop moving and processes are not progressing in parallel, many of them are still in project or administrative process, so a report updating the situation in which each of the mergers seems essential to us, determining where to focus more efficiently, analyzing the difficulties and pitfalls that can be encountered in each of them and in order to make an assessment of the state of the works. Rivers of ink have been poured into the poor development of the environment at some concentration. It's true that the criteria were varying, but it's still very common that the table is raised in many processes, taking forward centenary chunks of biodiversity, which is essential to take into account elements of natural value, aspects of biodiversity, elements of historical, archaeological value, such as petroglyphs, mammoths and chests, which in good number suffered the policy of scrapping some of the concentrations made. Except in the case of mountain concentrations, it doesn't make sense what size effort and investment is made so that the land will soon end on forest land, and the efficiency that must be taken into account when executing the concentration processes. Without leaving aside the 129 concentration processes, we understand as a priority to put in place other mechanisms that cause dynamism and land mobility. The Land Bank cannot continue to be an advertising claim for parliamentary rhetoric to refer to the problem of land; given that as a land mobility tool it is appropriate to the needs of our landowners and farmers without the need for large investments or causing the environmental spills of the partial concentrations. The Socialists have already said on several occasions that a mechanism such as the Land Bank should not only have a sufficient budget allocation, which is currently lacking, but rather have a necessary political impulse, so that it can be seen as a useful tool for unlocking the abandonment and underutilization of thousands of parcels that become an important seed for the spread of the fire and the settlement of wild fauna, which so negatively affects agricultural activity. When asked for a soil catalogue, we understand that they refer to another of the cornerstones of agricultural policy, such as crop planning, for a more appropriate use of natural resources in their exploitation and for better results. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group supports each and every one of the requests being made in this motion because it understands them as necessary measures and in the right direction, and we do not understand how the German Government has not just placed absolute priority on these and other similar measures which are essential conditions for the relaunch of the rural world. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u159	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all to clarify that although I'm going to pick up here the compromise that the advisor put forward, it's a commitment of one hundred twenty-eight, not one hundred twenty-nine, there must be a mistake in the motion. We're talking about one of the instruments that is trying to improve the territorial structure of our rural Galician, which is the partial restructuring, commonly known as the partial concentration. For us, partial concentration is a fundamental instrument in this field, because it enables, among other purposes, the resizing of farms making them more profitable and also reducing production costs; it allows for diversification of land uses; it allows for improved communication pathways; and it also fulfils — and for me and our group this is an essential issue — the role of clarifying and updating the ownership of land in Galicia, providing it with legal certainty and allowing its access to the property register, which we believe is of fundamental importance, too. We're talking about a complex process, which has to unite, on the one hand, the interests of the owners and, on the other, the general interest. And aware that it is a complex process, precisely the Union has worked in its simplification, in the simplification of the process, approving the Law of Improvement of Agrarian Territorial Structure of Galicia, the Metaga; we will refer to it or speak of it as Metaga, Law 4/2015. Look, in this law, and I'm going to argue with you, press the agro- and forestry value that there may be in the areas interested in reorganizing your territory, beyond reducing the plots or making them bigger. I remember that here in the interrogation Mr. Sánchez was talking about the partial mergers made by the PP using clientele and caciquí criteria without taking into account technical criteria, such as tools to boost agricultural activity. Well, I would ask them to act or speak with a little more rigour, especially to pay more attention to laws that are passed in this Parliament, even if they did not vote for them. Laws which, on the other hand, are to be respected for the administration and also for citizens, at least in a rule of law. Look, as for the general targets of Metaga, the two that I can highlight, and which are collected in the article, 2 say, "Enhancing the structural, technical and economic conditions of agricultural holdings in Galicia and establishing, for temples that are not part of agricultural holdings, measures of grouping, resizing, structural and infrastructure improvements that facilitate their mobilization for agricultural use." Article 7 of what Mr Rivas and Mr Pérez Seco have talked about, says that in order to start a restructuring process, it is necessary to believe the fulfilment of these general objectives, and to collect as accrediting circumstances of this compliance, I quote: "The existence of structural efficiency of agricultural holdings located in the areas of action, the agricultural activity of the area of action and the existence of professionals who dedicate their productions to marketing, the interest of the people holding the agricultural holdings of the area, the dynamism of the territory, the agrarian potential of the area." Where are those caciquí criteria? These are objective criteria that determine the search for those areas most suitable for concentrations. But it is more, on the basis of the partial restructuring, in article 4.8 it is collected as an instrument, too, from these bases the classification of land, which is the operation that seeks determination based on its agronomic and productive value of the different types of land existing within the restructuring area, that is where soil classification is done. And besides, answering your last question, Mr. Rivas, — which I always pay attention to — what you were asking about the search for which soils have greater adequacy for use, restructuring also carries a plan to manage lands of special agricultural vocation, which consists of: the identification of the current crop situation, the establishment of delimitation in the whole zone of restructuring of the different uses of the included lands and the determination of priority guidelines. That is, in each area to see what the most appropriate crop is and, if so, to determine also what is the minimum need for agricultural land in that crop to ensure the viability of the resulting agricultural holdings. In short, Metaga is a good law and has modified the partial concentration, precisely in the search for what we all seek here, which is to achieve the profitability of the farms. As far as restructuring is concerned, it reduces the phases, goes from six to four, and opts, too, for the use of pre-existing road structures. Finally, we try to adapt the mechanism of operation of the partial concentration to the needs of our farmers and livestock. They say there's nothing done, when the partial concentration in Galicia has started, it's acted on 1,025 areas of partial restructuring; we've been talking about over 540,000 hectares, affecting more than 428,000 owners and over 4,100,000 plots. Home!, in these areas 76.68 are finished, 9.95 are stopped and 13.36 % of inactive areas remain, which would be the 128 of what we were talking about before. By the way, of these 1,025, they're 8 decreed in the Bipartite. I know he didn't give him time to do everything he had to do, but 8th of 1,025. They're talking, too, about no budgeting on this subject, and it doesn't correspond to reality either. Look, in the middle of the years 2013-2015 it spent or invested around 9 million euros, but in 2016 we moved to 26 million euros and in 2017 we reached almost 27 million euros. Finally, and in view of this budgetary effort, we reiterate here the commitment of the Union to administratively complete these 128 living areas in Galicia before the end of 2020, before the end of this legislation. I finish by pointing out that my parliamentary group is not going to support the motion, because it takes a view of the partial restructuring that we not only share but is not the result of the legal texts that regulate it. The aim of the Union and our parliamentary group is to provide our farmers and landowners with sufficient land-based holdings to ensure their profitability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u161	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u162	Thank you, President. First, thank you for your support for the Socialist Group and also for the BNG, and of course, we did not expect another position from the People's Party. No news, they're going to vote again against measures that could help improve the situation in our rural area, even though this is the supposed legislation in rural areas. You used your intervention to do a lot of literature, and thank you for explaining to us many of the articles you collected from Metaga, for example, but not a single -- you spoke very briefly, maybe thirty seconds at the end of the intervention -- of the political position. In fact, the rest of the intervention was a narrative of what the regulations collected. And as I said in my first speech, often regulations don't have that normative development and they don't have development and economic resources to enforce the law. For example, the Partary Concentration Act provided for a regime of sanctions to prevent abandonment and this has never been implemented. Or he talks about Metaga as if it were a law passed with consensus and dialogue, when he knows they passed the law alone, rejecting most of the amendments to the opposition. But, as I said, no novelty, they continue with a policy of paralysis in the face of the country's problems and in the face of rural problems and they talk about budgets. I mean, he didn't talk about that, the ridiculous budget that was dedicated to the Land Bank, 87,000 euros, when they're saying and approving an initiative that they want to resupply and push the Land Bank, but then, at the time of truth, budgets give him a totally insufficient share. And the data, as I said in the first intervention, speak for themselves, so it's not that we sell one country reality and you another. We're talking about the data that you know, the Italian countryside, the situation of agricultural holdings is worrying, not because it says it in Marea, or because no group of the opposition says it; it's worrying because today only 27% of the territory of Greece is useful agricultural area, and since 2007, 10% of the land of work has been lost. So, it's not a catastrophic vision that in ten years it's happened, it's a matter that remains supported by the data I just put on. More than 30,000 acres of forested land illegally, so what does legislation often serve if after that you do absolutely nothing to comply with the legislation, absolutely nothing? In fact, the Montes director himself, often in this case, to talk about the issue of fires and what they're going to do. If a Government of Galicia says what they're going to do to enforce legislation, then we have nothing to do; to comply with other laws that should not be enforced, because they shouldn't be approved, like, for example, the Mordaza Law, they don't have these problems when applying them. And the loss of agricultural land has direct consequences on the abandonment of rural areas and also direct consequences of fires. Now that we're with an investigation commission, we can think about it, and many of the people who came in were talking about the increased risks that have certain types of surface for these types of fires. For example, in 2015 a fire of more than 2,500 acres in the Qualedro took place on totally abandoned plot concentration grounds, and unfortunately abandoned concentrations are not an exception, there are many. So they'll have to put, let's say, the measures in place to prevent this from happening in more situations. They draw a picture that doesn't correspond at all to the realities, they speak of one of the objectives, for example, that is to increase the area of farms. What's the point of saying this target picks up Metaga when it doesn't actually work out? So it's very good that this legislation picks up this target, we agree with that goal, we know that there are many farms in our country that have a problem with increasing the land surface, but if then the legislation doesn't make this happen, there's no use in collecting it; we have to do self-criticism, they have to make self-criticism of why the legislation is not being met and why those objectives that were raised when this legislation was approved are not being met at all. And in general, I repeat, the supposed legislating of the countryside. They're doing a minimum of self-criticism and they stop implementing policies that the only thing they're getting is that rural people are more abandoned every day, with fewer services and that the population has to live in other places. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the demand by the Junta of Galicia to the Ministry of Development of the bidding of the works of various highways of Galicia, through the extraordinary Central Government Road Plan for the years 2018 and 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u164	There are amendments to the Group of the European People's Party and to the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u165	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u166	Thank you, President. "Stop whistling and get to work." We have taken these words from Mr Feijóo, who today ratifys Mr Puy himself to the press, who cannot better summarize what the people's party policy is. Because since the extraordinary road investment plan was introduced, on July 14 of last year, you can see that you've been out of your mind. How do you explain, if not, that they couldn't get Fomento to look at any of the investments that meet the conditions to be included in this plan? And what's the worst, is that they didn't even have to communicate well in any way at this time, and before the start of the first phase of the plan, the mediations that could have been doing. So let us not be willing to take any applause from his management so far. In the Marian apparitions you will believe, we believe in the facts found, and so far we have not seen any. For this reason, in the interpellation with the advisor, we reminded him that the objective of transparency is a priority that has marked this government, but poor Mrs. Transparency must have been well hidden in a drawer, because you don't see much of her face and when you see her she appears totally disfigured. Because, what were the managements of this German government? They referred the list of roads that were understood to be able to enter the plan, an investment of 600 million, said the advisor, but he also said to leave the initiative to the Ministry of Development to decide whether they should be included in this program or by budget. Without a doubt, what we all want is a solution to the bus network included in that list. But we don't understand that you're refusing to continue to insist, as the other day seemed to let the Counsellor find out, on this route of the Road Investment Plan. And our feeling?, goal for Mr. Rajoy, out of play for Mr. Feijóo and Mrs. Vázquez and banquillo for the Greeks and the Greeks, waiting someday to be able to get out of the playing field. And the worst thing is to contemplate how you think being hot in the band is the same as playing in the game. [[Applause]] And no, we're out, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Greeks and the Greeks are leaving us out of the party. It is true that with all this we have more and more suspicions that this party is, figuratively, arranged, and that you already know the outcome. And from the Socialist Group we wonder why they accept and applaud this Galician marginalization in the policies of the Ministry of Development. I remind you that the average annual tax rate for the Rajoy period was 330 million euros, while the average annual tax rate for the Zapatero period was 700 million euros. The brutal fall of 370 million, of 53%, cannot be explained by the economic crisis, but when they are told that they do not adjust to the programmed and planned in the general budgets of the state to Galicia. That you applaud the annual investment of 357 million last year, he speaks very well of the political conformism they have fallen into. He desires the Greeks and the Greeks, more concerned about who runs the game than about winning the game. And don't be mistaken, you play for the Greeks and for the Greeks, not for keeping the People's Party in power. "Stop reading and get to work." Perfect, let's sit down, see where they have to start, because there are several works considered strategic and urgent for Galicia, and which we consider should be taken into account in this road map. On the one hand, the new plot on the A-55, between The Porriño and Vigo, and that would connect to the A-52. The A-74, or the Navy highway, connecting San Cibrao and Barriers to link to A-8; the A-56, which would connect Ourense to A-54 to reach the city of Lugo; the A-57, which would pass in a first phase from Ponteareas to Pontevedra; the A-59, which would connect to the A-57, which would pass from Vilaboa to Peinador; and the A-76, which would connect Ourense to the exit and central entry of Galicia to Ponferrada. There are not few targets, as the promises were not limited: May 2014, Minister of Development, Ana Pastor, announced the early exhibition of the tunnel project for the A-55 highway between Vigo and The Porriño, while announcing the arrival of the AVE for 2018. We're waiting. July 2015, nothing has been known since the A-74 highway or the Navy highway, which goes from Barriers to San Cibrao, when Fomento announced at the beginning of the drafting of the third-country project 10.5 kilometers from Barriers to Foz. We're still waiting. June 2012, Development assumed as priority the entrance to the city of Ourense of A-56, Lugo-Uurense. We're still waiting. December 2014, the Council of Ministers announced the authorization to hire works for the first stretch of the A-57 highway, between Vilaboa and A Hermida, and that it would continue to A-59, an alternative without fee, and AP-9. We're waiting. In February 2011, Mrs Pastor then commented that despite sharing with the Zapatero Government the idea that A-59 is a very necessary highway, she believes that A-57 cannot be left in the forgetfulness and should also be among the priorities, as A-59 and A-57 complement each other. Too bad I'd forgotten these priorities as Minister of Development. We're still waiting. Quencing band, heating banquillo, and you're happy, because at least they're in the game. We want the goals to put them in the Galicians and the Greeks, we don't want to win anyone, but we want to get out — at least — playing and defending our door. We already know that Mr. Feijóo is more outstanding in the winter card market, so today we are presenting this initiative, to remind them that the party is here, in Galicia, and that the parties that play without us are lost opportunities. And since in this plenary we are to claim the role of equality in all the issues, I think it is appropriate to recall a question. This road map provides, in the words of the Minister, 189,000 jobs. Do you know how many of these will fall into women? At 1%, that's exactly the percentage of women employed in the large infrastructure construction sector. That is why we need to be very careful when we talk about big investments and big economic repercussions, because usually — not always — they fall mainly on men and exclude women. And if we talk about equality, something we're doing wrong if in such an important and strategic sector there's only one percent of the women's presence. And to finish, consider our request, do not close a path, that of the extraordinary road investment plan, which remains open, and if the important thing is to do the works, we understand that Galicia cannot give the party for loss, because that places us in a position of conformity that feels a very dangerous precedent for the future. That's why we ask them to support this claim and put Galicia on the map, of what Mr. Rajoy's government is trying to erase us again and again. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u168	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We're here again. Today I must defend this motion, too, as we said this morning and have explained to my companion Paula Quinteiro. It is the luck we have in the En Marea group, that we can talk about topics that don't match us with total solvency and without any problems, and I think that the People's Group has already understood why we are defending initiatives that are not, usually, precisely, our areas without any problems. So, with reference to this motion, we mean that since 2014 the Ministry of Development has failed to execute more than 2,308 million euros in Galicia; therefore, we see the need, from our group, to claim from the central government the return of this debt to our country. A debt that's already beginning to fray with the government of Aznar's accused party and continues with the return of PP to the central government of Mr. Rajoy. The numbers are there and show that Galicia is staying in the state infrastructure queue wagon, because in the state, and essentially during the governments of the accused party, a historic debt was broken, as counsellor Ethel Vázquez acknowledged in this same Parliament. We need to recover the state's investment in the unexecuted, and it would be good if the Government of the Union had accompanied us in that claim. The lack of budgetary execution condemns and casts the development and economic future of Galicia. In 2014, only 29.16%, 61.23% were executed in 2015, 40% in 2016 and, with data available so far, only 40% in 2017. One might wonder where that money is no longer invested in Galicia, but one might also ask where was Mr. Feijóo and the Infrastructure Advisor while this deception was being perpetrated. Once again, showing the inability of this government to require the central government to carry out the necessary works and investments in the country. A government more interested in being gentle in front of its stepmaster than in obeying and defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, in obeying Mr. Rajoy and Mr. De la Serna before the people who gave them this so-called absolute majority. To talk about the state's budget decline in Galicia is to talk about the abandonment of our infrastructure, which can be definitive so that Galicia will stick to European commodities and that Galicia will stay behind in its development. It became clear this Sunday that Mr. Feijóo uses only the presidency in his own interest and not in the interest of most of the Greeks and the Greeks, a presidency thought of as a trampoline of his frustration in the flour political career in Madrid. In the railway, the Council of Ministers approved the OSPs a few months ago, compulsory public service on the railway, and again Galicia is out of the rail improvements in the commodities. On the roads, we're no better, Fomento, with his abandonment of investment in Galicia, put us in the first place of the state ranking in terms of sinality. The data are there and they speak very clearly, they are unquestionable data, as much as they use what could already be studied in universities, in the faculties of Political Sciences — which we already call "Method Feijóo and that of his government": to build false premises with true data. But there is data that is not hidden from speeches such as that of Mrs. Infrastructure Advisor, which says that Galicia is in the first places as regards the budget for Development, omitting other data as the shameful level of execution of the last few years, which, as we said, is about 50% and which moves us to the last places as far as real investment. In any case, we understand that the PSdEG initiative is necessary, so we are going to support it, but we are presenting an amendment, because In Marea understands that there are specific discrepancies in the performance of some works, as can be A-57, which is a self-designed road designed by Development, which will run parallel to AP-9, at a cost greater than EUR 1,200 million, a cost greater than what it was supposed to rescue AP-9. The government of Galicia's accused party is camouflaging its intention to build a highway parallel to AP-9, crossing Galicia from north to south. Then they suffer the danger of a new dumping of funding, and those isolated cases of which they are always ashamed, but you will know. What is clear is that this new route, which the Minister of Development announces as loose sections, will assume an obvious duplication in the transit between the north and the south of Galicia, will mean a new hole in the public accounts. And in this situation the AP-9 will become a deficit highway, and the state will be forced to rescue it, with which Galicia will have two high-capacity pathways just five kilometres from each other and a road deficit within the country, which cannot be solved by the costs of bad planning, and without the sense of doing works that do not meet the real needs of citizenship. That would sound like the Madrid radials, which we then had to rescue with the money of all. So, and finally, En Marea's proposal goes through an AP-9 public and Welsh management, the liberalisation of the highway to be free, to rescue its concession and to make it the central axis of communications by road in the country. This rescue is an alternative to a new ballast with the infrastructures of the People's Party charged, a rescue which, in addition to meaning economic savings to the management of public resources, would also meet the communication and vertebrate needs of Galicia. So if we make an estimate of the costs of building the A-57 bus, they would turn the 1,200 million, and taking into account the average cost of the buses, according to the Ministry of Development, of 6.9 million euros per kilometre built, because these figures would allow the rescue of the current AP-9, because it would be almost the same amount as that of the construction of A-57. So if the Socialist Group accepts our amendment, the En Marea Group will support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u170	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, I am glad, the truth, I am very glad that you liked the intervention of the Infrastructure Adviser in the full past, because this, precisely, is what comes from the motion you bring here today. In his motion today they speak of including the proceedings in the planning of the Ministry of Development, not in the PIC—the extraordinary investment plan—which was what they brought in the interpellation. That was exactly what the advisor said, who had already been asked for and would continue to request from the Ministry of Development works for more than 600 million euros, including those you list in this motion. The advisor pointed out that the State Investment Plan, the Government of Spain, is a bet on public-private collaboration for works of certain characteristics, that we will, of course, try to take advantage of the works that meet these characteristics, but what is really important is to prioritize which of these works — and, above all, if they are not included there — if they are caught in the budgetary way. These 600 million euros are the demands we believe that, institutionally speaking, it must be the ministry itself which decides why it funds these works. What we are concerned about is that they are, and that it is clear that we will continue to demand all these works that are included in the amendment. But what we do believe is that the Ministry of Development has to decide how it is financed, but, above all, what we ask of it — the commitment is reached — is that they do not use the socialist system, i.e. they do not use the system of paying the works by charging the fees, as we have just seen recently on the Rande bridge, or on the outskirts of Santiago, of those agreements of the Minister of Development, Mr Blanco. That's the only thing we've ever asked him to do, that doesn't affect the beaches as Mr. Blanco has done. For everything else, let it be the ministry that decides. So I would like — obviously I think we have, too, to prioritize — to prioritize, and we believe that also this route between Vigo and the Porriño is of the priorities, will not miss the A-74 stretch in the Navy, neither will A-52, but I am surprised — and allow me, Mrs. Santos — to amend it. On the one hand, of course, they say in the line that he is already carrying enormous criticisms in the area of Pontevedra, which are against this A-57 in the circle of Pontevedra, and I suppose Mr Bará will comment on something later. But, in any case, be careful, don't worry about what happened to your fellow Member in Madrid from Ourense province when he asked to withdraw the funds from the budgets of A-76, which is also here, on the bus from Ponferrada to Ourense, in that four-month legislation, because with these suggestions, what he managed was not to get the deputy act in the following elections, and he stayed out. Be careful, Mrs. Santos, don't be the same as A-57. We will continue with those defenses of Pontevedra's interests, but what we will continue to ask is A-57 and A-76. Why only with environmental criteria only for A-76? Is it for everyone, Mrs Santos, or, do we just have to have the environmental criteria for A-76? We're going to keep asking, which is what concerns Mrs. Pierres, these infrastructures, all of them with environmental criteria, but we believe that we need to demand rational and feasible deadlines, we don't do anything asking for things that cannot be achieved, or in time that cannot be achieved. And look, I want to remind you — we always have to — that it is true that we have a lot of demands, but Galicia remains one of the autonomous communities that best treats the People's Party on investment. Fourth net community and second per capita in investments of the Ministry of Development. It's data that I know they don't like to listen, but please don't compare net figures, as you did in the budget interpellation, which are the triples that we have now with the current ones. In any case, we believe there is a possibility of reaching agreement. We will try it, we have little time until the vote, but as far as possible, as a spirit, we believe that it is similar, that we must continue to demand these infrastructures and that we can bid as soon as possible, and we hope to reach an agreement with the Socialist Group if we agree to compromise our amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u171	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u172	Thank you, President. The truth is that BNG doesn't convince BNG very much either the lyrics or the music of this extraordinary road investment plan, the PIC, which in Greek would be the PIE. First, because we understand that it is a response to the criticisms of employers and large builders by the collapse in the public works auction, which has basically two causes: the drastic fall in the budgets of the Ministry of Development and, secondly, the low execution, as we have already shown here on numerous occasions. It is a plan tailored to the great builders, who in addition — we see it — applauded with enthusiasm in the public presentation of this PIC/PIE. There were ACS, FCC, Globalvia, Ferrovial, OHL, Sacyr... I don't know if they're called these names, which are current not so much for their constructive activity as for other less constructive activities, and less ethical and less edifying. I don't know if they sound. And by the kind of contracts and by the financing system these will be the great beneficiaries, and this in the prejudice and increase of the gap that already exists in relation to the public labour adjudication in Galicia with regard to the Greek companies, which ultimately the small and medium-sized companies of Greece are left with the crumbs, and the workers and workers with those labor conditions that we have also seen in the works of the Rande bridge. It does not sound good to us the letter and that argument, for example, of the ICP/IPE that talks about that in the Spanish State to defend this plan 90% of the travel of passengers and 93% of the transport of goods is done by road. And this is precisely the problem, the great preponderance of road transport, both of the transport of passengers and of the transport of goods. It's an unsustainable model -- we're talking about this in the morning -- and we have to change priorities, we have to bet on the railway, we have to bet on, too, on the improvement of conventional road networks and sustainable, healthy and safe mobility. And this doesn't mean BNG doesn't defend investments in large infrastructures. And some — as is the case with A-57, in the so-called Pontevedra Circle — the BNG has defended them against wind and tide. Because, of course, — wind and tide, yes — you can't pretend to ask that N-550, at its passage through Vilaboa, through Salcedo, no longer have 20,000 vehicles/day with the rates of fatality and mortality — there was recently a cyclist's run-over — and not looking for alternatives for that traffic to go around. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We already disagree with other infrastructures. For example, it seems to us a barbarity that has been raised — and Mr Pazos may well agree with me — to A-57 and A-59 as two free parallel buses leaving Pontevedra and Vilaboa towards Vigo and Ponteareas. No, I know you don't agree. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But it explains... but in the Town Hall of Roundabout voted, precisely the People's Party, also against these two alternatives, which are absolutely a disincentive, a dispensation and a defeat; it doesn't make sense that we have AP-9, that we have A-57 and that we have A-59, the three in parallel. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Of course, we have to find another solution. This proposal also demarcates with regard to the financing system, which for us has many risks, which is designed to be a large bank business and which will have high costs for the state, because the state is going to have to pay in thirty years 10,500 million euros. And this has a lot to do with public-private funding from hospitals, that's what we saw in the case of Vigo. The Ministry of Development will have to pay 350 million a year, i.e. 20% of its canon budgets for the maintenance of these infrastructures. And it also sounds rare in the letter and, above all, numbers in terms of job creation. Because, of course, here the paper holds it all: 189,200 jobs will create this ICP. In any case, if another type of work — and with investment from all over the state — would also create many jobs, not to mention the tax return. So it doesn't convince us of this proposal. We think there must be a greater execution of state budgets in Galicia. You have to recover those 3,000 million euros that you've stopped running in five years. These actions must be converted into priorities by the State through its own budgets and not through such plans of dubious effectiveness. And, of course, what we are defending here — we have done it in full — is that there is a special investment plan in infrastructure in Galicia with EUR 4 billion, which compensates for all that money that has ceased to invest, and that allows for investments in railways, on roads, on buses, and also in ports and airports. It doesn't convince us of music, it doesn't convince us of lyrics, it doesn't convince us of score and it doesn't convince us of orchestra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u173	Thank you, Mr Bará. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u174	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández, with the data that makes it easier for us, I don't know if you're in the same playing field as us, because that data you're talking about doesn't look reflected in the investments in Greece, and you'll tell us where they are. And don't tell me, please, about Rande's bridge, please! Because you, like me, know what an end to work means, and you just have to take the bus, you just take the Vigo motorway to see how that bridge is. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And please don't touch that subject, because it's a pretty sensitive subject for many beams and pontiffs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We can talk about the end of the work, if you like, another day. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm going to be very brief on the amendments. Well, I understand that, in general, there's a shared feeling, and in this case by the PP and En Marea groups with certain nuances, and that we're going to try a little bit to get there... in our case, we're showing all the willingness to try and reach an agreement. And we really feel the lack of support and the lack of tune, of melody, that Mr Bará framed in support of this motion. Even if we — we insist — open the door to a point-by-point vote, at least to support that some of the roads may be included. And the Marea Group only envisages the bridge of funding for the general government budgets. Our position — before I have already argued, I think — remains to be worked on both ways, but that in no case closes the path of the extraordinary road map, because we consider — and I insist — that the role of the Galician Union is to insist on and press until the last moment. If I didn't, it would be irresponsible for the Greeks and the Greeks. Our autonomy is not to let others do it for it, because with those strategies it has been shown that neither the Atlantic freight corridor nor the bivalve laboratory nor so many other things. We are glad that at least at this point the People's Party agrees with us and is learning. On the other hand, the disagreements of the En Marea Group seem to be also on the roads that understand whether to be included in this Investment Plan or to face them at the state budget level. They call for the paralysing of the bid of A-57, and on the other hand -- I don't know if it was a mistake or an intention -- they don't include the A-59 plot, which would connect to A-57 and pass from Vilaboa to Peinador. We believe that both stages are essential, but at any rate we are opening up that possibility of voting by points and within the initiative. And also the People's Party, really, in its amendment, didn't contemplate A-59 and transmit to us that it was a mistake, and then it would become included. In any case, from this group we show our willingness to clarify with the voices and voices the works to be included, in any case those over which there are discrepancies. In conclusion, we hope that next time the People's Party, as the head of the Government of our autonomy, will do a good country-run exercise and will not wait for opposition groups to go ahead with it on the left. These kinds of initiatives are nothing more than a finding that Galicia's defense of the People's Party is not being as firm as it should be. They put us in the playing field and, for once, it's not Galicia that's always on the bench. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Mrs. Pierres, do you need a time to...? [[Mrs. Pierres López speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Paused for a few minutes to try to reach an agreement.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u176	Well, it looks like there's a deal. As Mrs. Pierres said, in terms of football: there's a match. And today there's a very important one, in addition. We vote. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] We're going to vote now. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga. There was a transaction pending. If you don't read or comment, please. Give a voice to Mr. Fernández Leicega's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u177	Yes, there is a transaction that already knows the groups, and at the request of the different groups we would vote, if possible, points 2 and 3 together, and then points 4, 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u178	Excuse me, 2 and 3 together?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u179	The 4, 5, 6 and 7 together, and the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u180	But in two blocks, first the... right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Three blocks. Let's go. So we started by voting points 2 and 3 of this transaction. We vote. Text vote on points 2 and 3 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the reform of the system of self-financing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 45; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u181	We now vote points 4, 5, 6 and 7. We vote. Text vote on points 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the reform of the system of self-financing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66; votes in favour, 6. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u182	We vote the rest of the points. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to reform of the system of autonomous financing, except points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes in favour, 6; abstentions, 12. The voting is positive. These points are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u183	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro. G.P. Motion vote. In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the execution and completion of the partial concentration processes that are being carried out. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u184	Finally, we voted for the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres. I was pending a transaction. Can you read it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u185	Yes. I'd change in the first part. Prior to the road description, I would say: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue asking the Ministry of Development that through the extraordinary road investment plan launched by the same in the years 2018 or 2019, or by the budgetary route, the bidding of the works is carried out on the following highways." We accept a point vote on the highways to be included, and they would be: the first three would form a point 1, the next two would be a point 2, and the last would form, in itself, a point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u186	I mean, these are the first three points together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u187	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u188	And then would it be points 4 and 5 or are they separated?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u189	The 4th and the 5th at point 2, grouped...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u190	Four and five in a second block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u191	And the last one would be a point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u192	The other one, the rest of the points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u193	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u194	Let us first vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of this motion. We vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u195	In fact, a point-by-point vote is requested to include the initial text with the first point. It's included in the first point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u196	Well, I understood that already, which incorporated what you read, but, despite everything, it was part of points 1, 2 and 3, and points 4 and 5, and then the rest of points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u197	Sure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u198	Don't you, Mrs. Pierres? Is that how I said it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u199	The introductory text is a point in itself, too, and then the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u200	So we vote on the introductory text separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u201	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u202	Let us vote on the introductory text. We vote. Text vote transactioned from the G.P. Motion introductory point. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the demand by the Junta of Galicia to the Ministry of Development of the bidding of the works of various highways of Galicia, through the extraordinary Central Government Road Plan for the years 2018 and 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 65; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This introductory text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u203	And now we vote for points like before. We vote points 1, 2 and 3. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, let's not complicate it now, let's vote and vote on 1, 2 and 3. Text vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the demand by the Junta of Galicia to the Ministry of Development of the bidding of the works of various highways of Galicia, through the extraordinary Central Government Road Plan for the years 2018 and 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 63; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u204	We now vote points 4 and 5. We vote. Text vote on points 4 and 5 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the demand by the Junta of Galicia to the Ministry of Development of the bidding of the works of various highways of Galicia, through the extraordinary Central Government Road Plan for the years 2018 and 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes against, 13; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u205	And now we are voting on the rest of the points or paragraphs, which is how it is. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pieres López, on the demand by the Junta of Galicia to the Ministry of Development of the bidding of the works of various highways of Galicia, through the extraordinary road plan of the central government for the years 2018 and 2019, except the introductory points, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u206	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to point 3 of the agenda, of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the improvement and expansion by the Galician Union of the Greek program of polymedicated patients
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u207	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u208	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and good afternoon to all who are listening to us from the rostrum. We are now bringing this initiative to the full, which calls for the extension of the programme to improve the quality of care for chronic polymedicate patients, which has been operating in Galicia since 2011. And from the Popular Group we consider enlargement to be an important subject for a number of reasons. First of all, the results reflected in the report that was presented at the Council meeting last February 1, which seems to us to have a very positive impact on the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. Specifically, on the health of 69,528 patients at least those who were included in this program in October 2017. And secondly, by the demographic characteristics both present and future of the population of Galicia. In recent decades we are witnessing a progressive ageing of populations. It is estimated that in the European Union the percentage of people over the age of sixty-five years will grow from 16% in the year 2000 to 27% in the year 2050. One of the immediate consequences of this aging is the rapid increase in patients with multiple chronic diseases and the increase in drug use. This situation is particularly important in Galicia, as it has an older population with a higher prevalence of chronic diseases than the national average. 24.5% of the population in Greece is older than sixty-five years, with the provinces of Ourense and Lugo with 30.9% and 28.7%, respectively, the oldest, reflecting today the reality that is estimated for Europe in the year 2050. This aging, as I said, is associated, in addition, with an increase in chronicity and polymedication. Although the definitions of polymedication are very varied and many, in general, and in qualitative terms, the fact of taking chronically more medications than the clinically appropriate ones that literature usually fix to 5 or 6 medications, but regardless of the definition we take into account, in which there is a broad consensus is the probability of finding unnecessary medications or medication-related problems, which significantly increases with the number of drugs prescribed. Polymedication has important implications not only for therapeutic efficacy, but also for patient safety itself. Several studies relate to the lack of adherence, the higher likelihood of adverse reactions and drug interactions, the risk of hospitalization, the risk of falling in the case of the elderly, as well as increased morbidity and mortality. In Galicia in 2011, the number of patients with more than 15 medications, according to the clinical history of Ianus, was 9,500, which made it clear the need to initiate some kind of action in this regard. And in that same year, it's when the program starts with the aim of improving the quality of care and the pharmaceutical supply. The data I initially referred to, presented in the report on February 1st, indicate that thanks to this program, and thanks to its implementation, the number of patients with more than 15 medications is reduced by 20.72%, patients with more than 12 medications by 9.38%, and patients with more than 10 medicines by 3.59%. With the benefit of the discount, that this means for all those patients. In addition, another of the parameters studied was the adequacy of medication to the program, which detected 30% of patients with potentially inadequate prescriptions and 7.6% of patients with lack of any prescription needed in the patient and not performed. So, in view of just this data, we look like a program with enough scope, from the perspective of patient safety and security, ultimately, of the Greeks and the Greeks and all of us, to urge the Union to continue with it, expand it and improve it as far as possible. In addition to data from this study, we know that the care transitions, that is, the shift from care to care level, also put the patient in a situation of risk of having medication errors. The published studies show that in 50% of patients enrolled in hospitals there are discrepancies in medication between the medication taken by the patient prior to admission and hospital prescription, which is what we call "errors in conciliation". Furthermore, when prescriptions are within the hospital itself, rates of mildly higher discrepancies can occur, and at the time of hospital discharge they are observed in at least 40% of the patients. One of the most common safety problems is the lack of accurate and complete information about the medicines the patient takes in transitions between different levels of care. This gives us an idea of the importance of carrying out a systematic and periodic review of medication in this type of patient. As we said, systematic review, which is always the same, and periodically, because as older people, new health problems can arise, which leads to the incorporation of new drugs. Therefore, we would find it interesting to develop a protocol for this systematic and periodic review, which would partly address the problem of conciliation, which, as we said, puts a patient at risk both in the hospital discharge process and in the care transit process. Based on the culture of safety in the use of the medicine, and given that in Galicia, the greatest aging, the higher probability of comorbidities, and, when there is greater morbidity, the pathologies increase, and, as pathologies increase, the use of medicines, therefore, the study of patients who are likely to have safety problems, establishing the target population, not only by the number of medicines, but also by those who have prescribed medicines that can lead to safety problems and medication errors. So, and to finish, put in place strategies that improve the organization and management of the program, the training of professionals and the involvement of new professionals in the field of primary care, hospital care and pharmacy office pharmacists, to give them the care continuity that these patients require. We understand that enlargement and improvement in drug care for chronic and polymedicated patients in Galicia would improve quality and care safety, as well as a more responsible use of pharmaceutical care. Waiting for you to count on your support, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u211	Good afternoon. The truth, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo, is that it is difficult not to agree with the justification of this initiative, given that, for example, in the United States, the cause of death due to misuse of the drug is the third. I'm saying in the United States because we don't have that data here, as in many matters there are no studies; there are many arguments in favor of rationalizing the strategy of not adding drugs to different diseases without control, mainly for older people. In general, it seems to us that the BNG of course looks good to act on polymedicated people or safety indicators, because they are usually those indicated by scientific societies, which is supposed to be done now to include patient reviews. At first, there was action on those who had more than fifteen, after ten, now they want to act on those who have more than five. The truth is that the protocol is more or less regulated, because primary care pharmacists report to family doctors, nursing staff, who review patients in the use of medicines and establish which are recommended and advisable to suspend. In fact, what is already a bit of a smoker — to use the terminology for use — is the decisive part of the initiative. First, talk about a program that has already been sent to the professionals at the end of February; then bring it here when at least one part of the professionals has already been forwarded to the program; then bring it here I suppose to get a headline. And then they talk about the launching of management strategies. We don't know what kind of strategies to improve the training of professionals, which they will mention, which will consist of this improvement, the involvement of a greater number — we don't know how many, where — to give care continuity to these kinds of patients; we don't know that it improves care. Of course, they worry about us, because one of the main objections we have to do to you is that the main problem of description is that it takes time to do that description, that is, to see what these drugs are either being used too much or are being misused or should stop being used. And this is collected in medical literature. It is difficult, considerable communicative skills are needed, to show a patient that the medicine that has been taking for many years is no longer advisable, to stop taking it, and for that it takes time to talk to the patients, to explain to them that a medicine that has been prescribed by one or a specialist is not necessary or it is not advisable to take it — it is also necessary to spend time — which can create a problem, and it takes time. The policy of the Council is to re-adapt chronicle programs without imagining that their implementation requires that the reasons for consultations are increasingly complex, with more computer, organizational tasks, and without re-sizing staff resources — mind: re-sizing them down — that is, all of this is unsizing, re-sizing personnel. So, it would seem to us that all of this would be fine if we were paired up with an adequacy of staff policies. That's why the BNG is presenting an amendment which is quite simple, and it's an amendment in which we say that the Galician Parliament — it is of addition — urges the Government of Greece to put in place a plan of primary attention improvement which specifically boosts recovery and staffing, which is intended for the same budget allocation needed to achieve its objectives. I mean, let's do what you pay attention to polymedicated patients, but we're going to have the personal resources we need to be able to do it. The rest are toast to the sun, Madam. The rest are sunwarming, because it's shown that at least time per patient more prescription drugs. That's what anyone who takes a walk. And we can go so far as most of the prescription is done by specialists and then whoever has to be in charge of descripting, who has to make that readaptation of polymedicates has to be primary care, which is who can really do that control...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u213	...this follow-up work, of really knowing what the real situation of patients is, primary care, but, without really proper resources, it's not possible to do it. I, of course, hope that, if you really want to do something more than take out a headline -- I see that the rest of the amendments, both from the Socialist Party and from En Marea, are going in the same direction -- will take care of the amendments that we tabled if you really want to do something more than make a nice one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u215	Thank you, President. From our group we consider this interesting initiative in the planning, on the subject that confronts polymedicated patients, basically on attention to chronicity, which is really the bottom line behind this initiative, and especially in Galicia, which is a territory that, of course, we can all understand perfectly, especially affected by chronicity, which is also one of the problems that in all forums and in all plants is being analyzed as one of the major challenges, by the high volume of people coming to public health with problems associated with chronic diseases, by the investment that obviously needs and by the need to optimize the system. From our point of view, we need to do a little deeper analysis, a little more precise than the initiative does, which we consider to be a little lax and which also incurs, from our own point of view, one of the usual mistakes of the health initiatives in this Parliament, and it is that they arrive here after the actions that the Government is already doing, and therefore is using this more like a press round than an initiative to debate; and we therefore believe that this is a perverse use of Parliament. In this sense, since our analysis, what we've been asking is such simple issues as understanding that if we have to work especially on chronicity, we think who does it. Professionals do it. Especially from our point of view, primary care needs to be reinforced, and that's where our amendments go. But, in addition, considering also and taking advantage of the fact that since the Council's answer to the media on matters of staff that are not answered in Parliament — to show this weekend — we have asked ourselves a few questions. First of all, the usual dismantling that we are suffering and that we have been constantly debating in the 5th Health Commission on the dismantling of primary care, especially in rural areas, where we are using the ratio criteria that basically have to do with urban and peri-urban entities. In addition, we consider ourselves, if we see the personal data, in which areas people with chronic diseases tend to be affected. Cardiology, we have lower ratio of cardiologists than in the Spanish average; mental health, lower ratio of professionals than in the Spanish average. Let's say these are mirrors where we should look at ourselves to really know what our analysis is, and the analysis that we should basically use is to know if the system really is working well on its whole, not only on the program, which obviously also, but on its whole. From our point of view, those problems that we have seen as the very high percentage of patients who do not have the proper dedication to their disease are mainly due to the fact that the system is now saturated, because it has a smaller number of professionals and a disorganization by its management that prevents them from accessing the patients' needs properly. And, therefore, we believe that there's work to be done. From our point of view, since the initiative, as we say, or just what we read, is that it works on "enlarge" and "improved", which are very interesting concepts, but we believe it is necessary to actually realise what it means, we provide some ideas, because we believe that primary attention should be given. Obviously, we could do a deeper analysis of the need for hospital care in the debate of chronicity, but primary care has an elementary character, and that's why, in that territory, our amendments go. The three addition amendments go this way. First of all, get the management back. Why? Because the need for management is obvious if one basically finds that primary care is having a problem because it's not coordinating properly with hospital care, because we think it's a coordination problem and not a reality of taxation, as it has so far. Today we don't have primary care coordinated with hospital care, we have subsumed primary care and, besides, being imposed by hospital care, and we think that's not the model. Secondly, on a question of competence. I don't want to remember especially — but I don't have much more to do — the defense that we socialists have made of the withdrawal of the Royal Nursing Prescription Decree, which counted on the vote against the People's Party and which in Madrid also counted on the vote against practically all political forces and even now the recognition that this royal decree was necessary to modify it. Thank you for coming to our proposals, even though they have to do it a little subtlely so they don't recognize that at some point they've been wrong. But we have initiatives — and some of them have been discussed — on expanding the professional competences of primary care, which have great training, innovative drugs, new diagnostic tests. That's what we addressed as one of our amendments. And besides, the expansion of staff paintings. As we said, this weekend we're checking that the media are getting data — and we're glad that it is — that we haven't succeeded since the opposition by asking for it here. Sometimes we ask for something as subversive as data and reports; cursed opposition, which demands data and reports. In any case, we want to be concrete, because if not, everything remains in a toast to the sun, and Heraclito already said it: the eyes are more exact witnesses than the ears. So we think it's time to concreteize. And, therefore, the issue is very important, we believe it is a good initiative to bring this issue to debate, the debate is very important, and what we need with the amendments is to know whether it really stays in a toast to the sun or it remains in a real commitment, and that we will have the opportunity to see whether the amendments are accepted or not, and we will know the answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u216	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u217	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodríguez, today we are listening to the concern expressed by the People's Party for polymedication and its impact on health, and yet we believe that it makes it a weak favor to debate the object of reducing the consumption of drugs that are essential if the vision is partial or if the debate is fragmented, as it seems to us on this initiative. It's not that we don't agree with that control, it seems essential to us, and in fact they call the attention that, acting on many occasions of the kindness of Ianus and the electronic recipe, but basically of the computer system that supports the clinical stories, there is not or there are those problems that you have described about the transition of pharmaceutical prescriptions, that difficulty when a patient passes from specialized care to primary and vice versa, or hospitalization, because we understand that with these tools there should be more appropriate control. The truth is, it's worrying that this is happening like this. And we believe that the debate should be framed in the global context and not only in the fragmentation of that part that has to do with the prescription regarding drug abuse, the increase in drugs; otherwise, it seems to be a conditioner that depends only on the prescribed professionals, and not always so. Indeed, the other opposition groups were transferring the relation to the situation of primary care. I agree very much, and we focus on the amendment that we put forward in other respects, and we also consider that this debate is very relevant, not only with regard to polymedication, but with all of the pharmaceutical spending, the entire policy in the Government pharmacy, and that it would give to a whole, and it has a lot to do with the debate that we gave just a couple hours ago, with regard to public funding and how the health services and the spending that is being done in the pharmacy, which is growing every year. What we think of, ladies and gentlemen, is that prescription cannot simply be referred to an economic criterion and therefore to isolate the subject of how medicines are being prescribed without talking about how medical professionals are conditioning in this case — the PSdEG spokesman also spoke about it — of what has to do with the prescription of nursing, which we continue with the same problem and without developing, but in this case with that negotiation of these economic criteria in management agreements with optional staff. And we call on this amendment to addendum to remove that type of criteria. We believe that the indicators that are used to evaluate prescription have to be related to clinical concepts, clinical criteria and health criteria, and not from that time on with purely economic criteria. We agree with the need to control spending, because, in addition, we have repeated it on many occasions, it is a spending that multiplies on many occasions in a rather worrying way and that occupies the health budget. However, to condition the payroll of medical professionals is less prescribed than to be paid a plus, and which is also linked to age groups, does not seem to us the best option for health control. That is to say, given that the economic aspect is very relevant, we understand that the most relevant aspect, even if the prescription is correct, is that if there are in that sense drugs that are generic or cheaper do the same effect they are prescribed, but also that there is control so that those who have no alternative possibility can be given if they are needed. And we say that because really a purely economic-oriented measure does not guarantee that what is being done is to promote the improvement of prescription. And we therefore call for these economic criteria to be removed from management agreements and for dialogue to be opened to adopt criteria, a control model that effectively helps with the financing of the system and with regard to spending on pharmacy, but which leads to a criterion, an indicator related to clinical aspects. And, of course, of course! we also regret access to drugs removed from the benefit catalogue, because it seems fair to us and we consider that we speak independently of prescription and polymedication without speaking of all the drugs that came out and of that compensation, that we do not forget that it came into force with Royal Decree 16/2012, and that today we continue to face an economic barrier for the sick people, it has to be on the table, and against what has been raised by the Minister of Health, most concerned to introduce the managers of companies like Metronic — which, of course, we continue to wait for the Council of Galicia to facilitate our contracts with Metronic — to place the directors of Metronic within its governing body of the Ministry. We understand that, beyond those inventive one year ago of the Minister's reform of that compensation system, we need to give a full debate on the public funding of the health system, of the complex that is the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u219	...pharmaceutical prescription and the cost this is supposed to be. We therefore ask that these proposals be taken into consideration and that a debate which is rather complex and which goes beyond polymedication should not be shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. I'm sorry about the speeches made by some of the parliamentary groups, because I don't know if I didn't explain correctly in my first speech, which I'm going to do again. To tell you, Mrs. Prado, that of course in the United States is the third cause of death of polymedication, a sufficiently important problem, and that's why we want this program to be extended from here. The programme was presented to the professionals, but we ask for two new things to be done that are not initially envisaged in that programme, which is what we have come to present today in this initiative. It is true, Mrs Solla, that by computer systems, precisely the Ianus and electronic recipe, for them, it is because the Galician Union, the Health Council, has learned what is happening in 2011 and subsequent years, about the polymedication and the problems that were in the care transits in the Galician community, which is certainly not unique to the Galician community, but from all over Spain and all over the world. But we want to solve this problem, because for us it is very important the health of all those people, which ultimately is the health of our older people. Mr. Torrado, precisely what I was saying to you, I probably didn't explain well, when you talk about what we're doing, because concretion is, first, a protocol for the periodic review and safety of the drugs that these patients are taking; secondly, that of the Danish population, of which we were talking first about the number of drugs — maybe ten and five — are now taken into account patients who have prescribed some medication at risk. With regard to amendments, it seems to me that, when something works well for you, when something is being successful for the Government, or when there is evidence that the policies of the Galician Union improve health care, because you ignore it. And I'm saying this because in the amendments they present, they do not propose any concrete improvement to the polymedicate plan, they move on to other issues. You yourself explained them: primary staff paintings, working conditions of professionals, pharmaceutical spending, the increase in the demand for diagnostic tests by professionals, which all of you are undoubtedly important issues, we don't discuss, and all of you, no doubt, have aspects that need to be improved, but that's not what we're talking about right now. So I have to understand that, on the specific subject of this initiative, or you think there's nothing to improve, which we don't agree with, because we ask that it be extended and improved, and we're promoting its progress, giving it more dissemination and involving more professionals, or you — which would be much more sad — think that the health of these patients is not an important issue. Waiting, however, for them to reflect and support this initiative, more and more thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and six other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Junta de Galicia so that the courtyards of educational centres are spaces of co-educational relationship in which equality is promoted and the dynamics of gender hierarchy and stereotypes are broken, as well as to enhance different uses of available surfaces
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u223	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u224	Thank you, President. Like a pulp in a garage, that's how it felt two years ago a girl named Marta in her 7-year-old class of children. One day at Entroido all the children freely decided to disguise themselves as superheroes and all girls as princesses, all but one, Martha, who wanted to be pulp, a proud and convinced pulp and who had to explain not why she was pulp, but why she wasn't going as princess, like the others. In just 7 years, gender stereotypes had already shut up in 95% of the children and children in this class, in a classroom where the teacher had conducted training and practices in equality and co-education. And why did this happen? That prevents equal education from being successful? Then you continue to contradict them. The world we live in is full of continuous contradictions and our children have lived with them since very young. In the classroom you can tell them colors don't have sex, but the Disney world transmits them that princesses are pink and blue principles. In class you can tell them that your efforts and merits deserve the same recognition, but the world teaches you that, while Rafa Nadal plays tennis and collects a lot of money because it's a machine and because he has a talent that you can't waste, Vero Boquete plays football because he gave it to you and he has fun with what he does. Coherence. In an incoherent world, you can hardly expect the equal treatment of women and men, and the reproduction of gender stereotypes, and also intergenerational stereotypes, to be given from the shortest ages, and as much as it is about cutting into one of the subsystems, nothing will be achieved without intervening in all those who influence and condition the formation of people. Family, school and society have to face the challenge of equality and education in values going by hand and acting in coherence with the transmission of values that demand them. Don't do it this way, in a coordinated way, it's like trying to eliminate a plant by tearing only the branches but forgetting to cut down the roots. In addition, we did not see that families deposit much of the responsibility of this training, not only of the acquisition of knowledge, but of the development of social skills, of equal coexistence, of education in values. Finland, objective 2020, subjects will cease to exist, knowledge will be imparted in multidisciplinary format. Spain, target 2018, what goal? If anything has offered me my professional experience, it's the realization that people unconsciously limit their dreams. When they hire a housing, they consider that it can only be like the others, assuming this factor as a starting point. And they do it that way because they understand that if most people do things in one way, it'll be because it's the best way. Dreaming, designing and pushing, that verb that he loves this government so much. You don't change what you don't think you can even be changed. We allow children and children to imagine themselves as equal in the future, we change for the sake of their relationship, we do not talk about equality if soon in the spaces of cohabitation of the centres this cannot be carried out and the architecture and materialization of the spaces and urban furniture prevent and hinder the implementation of equal relationships. We're not only talking about being propitious in the relationship between children and children, but also among minors of different ages and cultures. We are therefore talking about the importance that a plan of use and a better environment will help to avoid situations of empowerment of gender inequalities, bullying or discrimination. Because the X-ray of the school courtyards is clearly machist and abuse of power. Children often occupy the central part of it, in which they lead to the King's sport, football, as a star activity, while on the banks and corners it is common for the girls to be. The result is that children, the oldest and strongest, dominate space. About this reality they've been calling the collective attention of urbanists with a gender perspective, who for some years have been doing a joint work with schools and institutions from all over Spain to turn the yard around; a question that makes it clear that urbanism is neither neutral nor casual, but it reproduces inequalities with a clear hierarchy of gender and age. They tame children and older ones about children and younger ones. Experience has shown that, in addition, investments are minimal, often solved with a simple repainting of the floors, new firms, including small sports equipment, educational materials or urban furniture. The Galician Parliament approved this year in committee an initiative put forward by the Socialist Group to promote the obligation to integrate the gender perspective into all phases of the urban process. And we believe that the school area, because it is one of the first to influence training, and because it is the right space to improve intergenerational, inter-generational and intercultural relationships from childhood, which deserves to be taken as the first and most urgent action in terms of gender perspective; a proposal that is emulates the one that has already been set up in other autonomous communities and that aims to complement the coexistence program of the educational centres in Galicia, because there are many of the centers in Greece that have important deficiencies in the configuration of their school courtyards, requiring changes in their physical configuration that allow the implementation of the plans of uses to be implemented in each centre. But this decision involves investments and planning, which we understand should contribute to the Galician Union, not only with the diagnosis of the current state, but with a guide that helps to make the best decisions for the centers, because not having considered the courtyards as a more educational space in the centre causes the development of capacities that clash with all the objectives of the curriculum for child education. For all this it is essential that a plan be developed, materialized and financed for the adaptation of the courtyards of the educational centres and carried out through a previous study to analyse the possible adaptation works of the patios, new firms, sectorizations, management plans for use, sports equipment and urban furniture and to establish an order of priorities of the works among the different centres dependent on the autonomous administration. Well, it's true that the Autonomic Administration has taken some steps with the Strategy for School Cohabitation in Galicia 2015-2020 and the Educonvives.gal Program. In the report of coexistence it is precisely concluded that the student perceives the greatest frequency of conflicts of coexistence in recreation spaces. And in the guidelines for the implementation of the centres' co-existence plans that each has to put in place, as an example of action in Annex V, measures that affect the organization, a reference to the improvement of play areas; something that we consider to reflect perfectly how the conflict resolution and the detection of each one has been affected and greatly strengthened, which we consider to be in itself a step forward, but leaving aside the importance of the environment around children as a fundamental basis for developing educational plans, as well as implicit language in elements such as track layouts or the strategic situation of space furniture. Therefore, we believe that the administration's involvement must be much greater, contributing with budgeting and drafting a protocol in a way that guides the management of uses of yards with a gender perspective, and including in all projects of new creation of school centres, as well as in those private concerted, the need to introduce the gender perspective in the configuration and use of school courtyards. Hopefully all groups will be able to support this initiative, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u226	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Since the BNG we will support this initiative of the Socialist Party. It seems very interesting to us, it seems very close to us, because it addresses the educational system and the educational spaces — as Mrs Pierres said now — beyond the classroom itself, and transcends, in addition, the very distribution of subjects and conceives the school as a socialization agent with the ability to transform society, which is how we have always analyzed teaching at all its levels, since the BNG. We believe that this process of social transformation is what we need in this country, in the whole of Galician society and in the whole of humanity, to eradicate behaviors, habits and behaviors that are macho and discriminatory or unequal in a broad sense, as Mrs Pierres said, beyond gender issues. We will also support this initiative because it is geared towards complying with the provisions of the vigorous legislation, because sometimes it seems to us that it is taken or removed from the occurrence of any group, but it is not true," Mrs. Pierres said in her speech on the Strategy of coexistence. Also with the Equal Law of 2004, in article 9, which speaks of the guarantee of co-education in our territory, or with article 21 of the Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence Act, which speaks of educational and curricular projects with a gender perspective in the centres, not only as regards the contents of the curriculum itself, but also as regards attitudes within educational spaces. And we believe, in addition, that this management of the common spaces, of the recreational spaces where children are also developed, where they learn, where they socialize, where they grow, of those who talk about their own exhibition of motives, where the student spends more than 500 hours a year, they have to cover all policies and actions on co-education as well. It is also true that since the BNG we have created, we believe, that if we really want to develop non-discriminatory co-educational education the first thing to do — and we will not tire of repeating it in this Parliament — is to end the public funding of Opus Dei's education centres that secretate students on the basis of sex. That not one single euro public out of the workers and workers in this country, that not one euro of the public era goes to the educational centres that discriminate, that reproduce roles and macho stereotypes. [[Applause]] That would be the first step forward. In addition, it seems to us that, at the beginning too, it was very interesting, very necessary and even a priority to the drafting of the protocol of what Mrs. Pierres was talking about, which she proposes, in addition, as a second point, to draw those models of management of the courtyards with gender perspectives. It's not something new. There are very interesting experiences in the framework of the Spanish State. Specifically, since 2014 in Euskadi began to be implemented at first in between 150-155 teaching centres, where it was designed — moreover participatoryly with the whole educational community, with students, with teachers, with teachers, with teachers of pedagogy and also with families themselves — a model of management of those spaces that was meant to break that role and these macho stereotypes, which, as was already explained by the spokesman of the Socialist Party, eventually reproduce the machism among younger generations, among children. We agreed that there should be a study and evaluate the possibility of committing these works, but we also believe that one can and should also start acting immediately on existing spaces. That is to say, one thing does not prevent another; that the elaboration of this study or the works that can be developed in the medium and long term do not prevent us from starting to work with budget, of course, in those existing spaces. And here I open a parenthesis because we often conceived sports as if naturally or intrinsically sport itself was exclusive or discriminatory, and it's not. It's actually a patriarchal and machist society in which, for example -- even if you were talking before -- female football doesn't exist, it's absolutely invisible, and that doesn't make girls even value it as a possibility. Or there is a legislation that, for example, imposes maximum dimensions currently in force, maximum dimensions to the female equipment, for example, on the volleyball, or, for example, on the balloon. In the case of the beach balonman — I don't know if they remember — in 2014 there was a very strong controversy because the Spanish federation wanted to exclude Basque equipment by using a "male" equipment — and I put it in between quotes. It obliges this legislation currently in force to leave women's clothes — open quotes — "the stomach in the air" -- "and in the bikini there is no more than ten centimeters wide." The balonman is not a masquerade or discriminatory, which is discriminatory, a society that maintains and allows an existing legislation to force you to wear a garment that is more than ten centimeters in the bottom. [[Applause]] And I insist — I don't have any more time left, I'm gone — we're actually going to support it, it seems very interesting to us. The 2016-2020 Equality Plan itself for educational centres provides precisely for the provision of resource centres, methodological strategies and materials...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u227	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u228	...led — and finished — to create spaces and times of cohabitation and, above all, to generate in times of unstructured coexistence, such as recreation, other dynamics. And you see -- you can read it, you have it at your disposal, of course -- a set of measures that are not being carried out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u230	...among other things, that have shared experiences that are already being developed today in public education. She is absolutely proud, I share, just like the spokesperson — she has finished — that proud pulp in the midst of many princesses. There is a project in Pontevedra that has been working very well in primary and high school, many years, which should be extended to all the educational centers in the country, such as "Namondo", precisely to deconstruct...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u231	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u232	...this myth of the middle orange that still torments us today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u233	Thank you. Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u234	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today, of course, from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, we are focusing our attention on equality; that fundamental value that should concern all of us in this House, today and every day, of course, but most of all this week that we wish historic feminism, historical for all women. There will be more and more, thousands, thousands, who will never shut up before injustice. And if out there are so many brave women who won't shut up, what would you say about us if we stayed silent in here? We think that neither silence, nor the imprisonment of rapists, nor the possible condemnation of protesters like Emilio Cao, nor the judicial kidnapping of uncomfortable books for the People's Party. We're here to defend values like truth, like equality, justice and, of course, freedom. We're not prepared to forget it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And that's why we wanted to remember those words that proved themselves so dangerous, that they have just proved themselves so dangerous: "The car, just as it would discover the research years later, was named Alfredo Bea Gondar, mayor of the Grove, affiliated with the People's Party, another one, and processed in 2001 by a two-ton cupboard of cocaine. I guess there was snow." [[Applause]] Flour, a book, small gun! What a fear it gives some who know the truth of what happened in this country that they need courts working for them! And well, when we come into this matter, of course — then in flour — from En Marea we will support the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group. And we're going to support it because, as we often defend it here, we believe in the importance of school as a fundamental place to strengthen the struggle for equality. In that sense, we fully share the need to reformulate the space of recreation to make it a place that helps in that urgent task of equality. In fact, this same is a proposal that is part of the non-law proposition that our own group will present here tomorrow with a battery of various measures of how we can make schools a more equal space. We therefore hope that this proposal, Mrs. Pierres, will make the most of the successes. We will not tire of repeating it: in the same way that Machism learns, equality can also be learned; equality for that must also be fostered and taught. It is not, of course, a new debate — as we have said so many times here — there are many studies that show the importance of fighting inequality since the early stages of education. And in this sense, to focus the look beyond the classrooms, on the playgrounds, is a fundamental step, because this is a space in which the first relationships between children and children are given and in which, as pointed out by a report made by the Jaume Bofill Foundation, children and children throw from about 525 hours a year together, which is not little; 525 hours of leisure, games and, of course, socialization with people of the opposite sex; 525 hours which could and should therefore also be used as an educational space in which children and children learn to relate in equality. The potential, therefore, of this space and this time is enormous. But that's not what happens today, just take a look at any educational courtyard to, as it has been said, be able to see the primitive inequality in the occupation of space. The courtyard, the center of the courtyard, is always the kids to play football. Think of any courtyard you know; remember the courtyards in which we play I am sure that all Members of this House — and I am sure that, unfortunately, it will be the courtyards in which our daughters play — that is up to us, it is up to us not to continue to do so. The division of space has, of course, to do with the division of power itself. That's what's relevant because the powerful are always in the center, they're in the center of the meetings, they're in the center of the parliaments, they're also in the center of the playground. It depends on us that girls understand that the center of the country is also for them. So in view of this reality, co-educational courtyards suppose, beyond that physical improvement in the courtyard as a play space, to transform the gender relationships that perpetuate in our society and reflect from childhood. Once we assume that the playground can be a learning space, we can intervene in it to ensure equal access for all children and children. We're talking about one more step in co-education, which, as we said, should not just stay in the classrooms; one more step to value the girls, so that all the school spaces are thought of as well for them. That's why we demand that the educational administration put on the table plans that help reverse the situations we have denounced so far, plans that help us fight machismo in all the fields, because we defend public education of quality, secular and, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u235	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u236	...feminist, and that's why we're going to strike next Thursday. That's why the March 8 feminist strike will also be a student strike, because education is key to eliminating macho stereotypes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u237	Finish, please, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u238	...and fighting the patriarchy -- it's over -- key, ultimately, to change the world, and on that we walk, it's nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u240	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Before we begin, Mrs. Chao, an incisus. As you decided to spend an important part of your time talking about something else, I think you betrayed the subconscious when you said that there were political groups who wanted to use justice in your service. It is very clear which sources and which political systems you drink, precisely those who use justice to their service and do not believe in the separation of powers. We, of course, have very clear what is the role of justice and what is the role of politics and legislative chambers. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pierres, it's striking. I wrote a sentence that I fully agree with, that in which you said that family, school and society have to go hand in hand in education. I fully agree with that statement, but it is compelling that you make that statement here today, the day the Socialist Party rises from the Covenant for Education in Congress of Deputies. The day you decide as a political group to break up with any way of consensus and agreement in education comes here to talk about which family, school and society have to go hand in hand. And besides, besides... indeed, budget, money, that's the argument the Socialist Party puts on the table. [[Applause]] He says there's no resources available to implement measures of the education pact. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They all know how to put resources into public policies: through budgeting. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The party that says it doesn't support the budget says we have to put more resources; socialist logic. That's the logic of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] But, look, I think we're here to talk, we're now talking about the non-law proposition that we're debating today about the adequacy of the courtyards of educational centers to turn them into co-educational spaces. We, from the People's Group, believe that we can't doubt that the Welsh education system is a system that strongly places on co-education and that it is also characterized by a deeply equal education system. Co-education and equality are two of the basic pillars on which the entire work of the Council is supported, and are therefore specific objectives in the design of education policies in Galicia. And to put this reality of manifesto, it is enough to review the current legislative framework and observe the measures that the German Government has implemented to complete a national legislative framework which, in particular, in the area of leisure space in education, results in all scarce light. We can't match that. As you know, the law on school playgrounds is drawn up in Royal Decree 132/2010 of 12 February, so the minimum requirements of the centres that impart the teachings of the second cycle of childhood education, primary education and secondary education are established; a real decree drawn up by a socialist government that focuses exclusively on the dimensions of the courtyards, but that nothing says about the design, use or coexistence in these spaces. Obviously, in view of this absence in the state legislative framework and bearing in mind that, as stated above, co-education and equality are key lines in the design of public educational policies in Galicia, the Government of the Union has opted to provide its own tools such as the Welsh Strategy of School Coexistence, which, together with the Plan of Action for Equality in Galicia Educational Centres, constitute the autonomous framework for equality and co-education actions. I'm sure you all know perfectly the Welsh Strategy of School Cohabitation, so you know perfectly well that one of the basic axes of this strategy is precisely planning and active management of transit and leisure spaces. We're obviously talking about the playgrounds, but also about the active planning and management of living in other spaces: entrances and exits, dining rooms, transportation, etc. We all agree with the appreciation that in childhood the game is one of the essential activities for the integral and harmonic development of people, and, by extension, as philosophical anthropology has pointed out throughout history, the game is one of the basic scenarios in which it develops and configures a cultural identity and a society. With this in mind, it seems obvious that we agree on the importance of spaces of leisure as learning spaces in which to promote a sustainable and inclusive education as a resource more than the centre owns, and that is the line that this parliamentary group defends and in which the Government works. Any of the multiple studies that exist today in terms of design and use of school courtyards indicates that intervention in these areas must be based on a diagnosis of the specific situation of each school in which the entire educational community participates to develop, from this diagnosis, a series of individualized intervention proposals for the school, social and economic reality of each centre, thus ensuring an individualized intervention and according to the needs of each particular case. Well, this is the methodology followed by the German Government to develop the Welsh School Living Strategy 2015-2020. A diagnosis of school co-existence in Galicia was developed which, with a census nature, underwent the processing of 200,000 valid questionnaires and allowed, from all processed data, each educational centre to receive its individualised report in a confidential and automated manner for the elaboration of its own living plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u242	...—end, President—and the implementation of the measures necessary to improve their particular situation. Finally, we are perfectly aware of the importance of all spaces of socialization as tools for working for equality and coexistence. So we support the strategies and measures that the Greek Government has implemented to move forward in this line and that, as we can see, they give their fruit. From the People's Group we believe that the Plan of Action for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia and the Galician Strategy of Living...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u243	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u244	...give an effective and clear framework of action and answer to the question you pose in your non-law proposition, so we don't understand, therefore, the need for the development of a specific new plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u246	...in school playgrounds. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u247	Thank you very much. You have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u248	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández, today, I'm very football-like, you know a long mouse, don't you? What are not accounts, are accounts, and what we want is 5% of the budget. [[Laughter]] That's what the Socialist Party wants. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, let's give value to what's worth. We thank the support of the rest of the groups because we believe that perhaps this is a subject that in itself would not solve the problem of inequalities between children and children, neither discrimination nor abuse of power, right. No measure or action is in itself definitive, but it is, in any case, one more matter that would help make the road less stupendous and that would put Galicia in an exemplary position in educational policies. We really feel the lack of support from the Group of the People's Party. Even so, they have time to reconsider their position. In any case, we have not doubted that steps had been taken — before I said — but these are shy and scarce and, as we said before, with many contradictions. The action plan in schools that coordinates the Galician Union is often on paper and most of the measures are not being implemented. I invite you to go to many of Galicia's educational centers and find these wonderful results of what you do, because that's not the case. And when this initiative was planned and talked to many center managers, many of them even had to recognize those management plans and these centres' living plans. Therefore, this is mainly because educators themselves are oversaturated with responsibilities, and at no point are protocols and living plans if they are not then put into practice. The issues of the educational courtyards need help from the Administration to guide teachers and to provide them with keys, basically because training is now receiving it, and it's too early for any kind of fruit to be seen. We had to put the accelerator on, and while the teacher and the teaching bodies were trained on equal terms, the board would have to do its job and put the background line in the right place so that educational strategies could be put in place. I repeat, they were works and they were very low-budgeted works, but they undoubtedly needed, on the one hand, the necessary availability to put them into practice and which remains clear that there is and, on the other hand, the indispensable budget that would facilitate their execution. 525 hours are the hours that the report and the school courtyards, the spaces for educational opportunities, calculate that the student spends each year in this space. And we too — and already to finish — have spent many hours here, men and women. And, Mr. Fernández — I said earlier — contradictions and inconsistencies, look at their inconsistencies. In this very courtyard, in this House, socialist women intervened on a 40% of the occasion; their women, women of the People's Party, on a 23% of the occasion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u250	Check their own inconsistencies and contradictions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Councilloría do Mar in order to avoid the impact on the environment, on the Ulla River and on the Arousa River, of the project to reopen the copper mine located in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u252	This motion for a non-law was presented with an amendment by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u253	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u254	Thank you, President. This last Sunday, February 25, several thousand people showed a strong stand against the megaminary project planned in the Town Councils of Touro and O Pino; a project that is being processed in these two municipalities. The intention is to continue exploiting an abandoned laying in 1986 and to add co-rolling deposits. This is an open-sky mega-megaminary project that will occupy an extension of 679 hectares. Only 30% of this project corresponds to land affected by a previous holding and 70% corresponds to new allocations. Although the company is trying to minimize and conceal the true dimensions of the operating plan, it is not a reopening, it is not a reactivation, therefore, of the existing mine. The data from the project presented show that they are, as it said, 689 hectares, only 197 belong to the former exploitation, 492 are forest masses and agricultural land. Most of the surface that would occupy the mine is currently the productive base of many gainful farms. Without going further, in the last few days, fruit of the intense rains, there have been new spills. I say new ones because they have been systematically dumped for years, despite being theoretically abandoned from exploitation, which means a continuing threat to people's health. In the process of separating copper from previously milled rocks contains the use of various chemicals with different degrees of danger for people and the medium, which are stored indefinitely in so-called sterile deposits: irritants, allergic substances, harmful to people, suspected of causing cancer, harmful to aquatic organisms, with long-term and not easily biodegradable effects. Sterilized storage bags that cover San Rafael called pond deposits, which work in closed circuits and which, according to the company, would guarantee 100 percent of the absence of any exit outside. Of course, the level of credibility is absolutely none. This project is presented by a transnational mining company with investment funds with Voitre capital. We're talking about a clearly speculative goal, of getting a lot of benefits in a little bit of time and stealing taxes. A project with a very high negative impact, both environmental and economic health. Mining the open sky, consisting of drilling tons of soil, taking the mineral, pulling the rest of the material, removing the copper through a chemical process, and taking it out without even being transformed into Galicia. I'm doing a summary exhibition, you've come here several times, to this Parliament, it's all of you and all of you still know. The process is tremendously harmful to the territorial location where it is installed and where the zoom is intended to be installed. This whole project will pour into the basin of the Ulla River; a river that flows directly into the Arousa River. That's why they have jumped all the alarms in the Arousa River, for fear of the severe environmental consequences and in the socio-economic fabric of a tremendously rich stream, with a high dependence on the sea, fishing, aquaculture and marine activity; fundamental activities for the river, from which thousands of families live; very intense activity in labour, direct and indirect. In the Greek economy, it is estimated that there are 14 jobs that are generated for every million euros invested. In the case of fishing, it's estimated to be 21.7 in direct jobs, and 3.9 indirect jobs. Population is fixed, they are inserted into the economy, they create fabric in the economy and give future prospects for new generations, and this is very important, and it has been manifested as tremendously stable in the face of economic crises. It has been estimated that in the socio-economic fabric of the Arousa River the impact of the river on the municipalities range from 10% to 20% of GDP, depending on the municipalities. So we're talking about a very powerful socio-productive reality, not only at the level of employment, but for thousands of families living in the Arousa stream of the sea. I have no shame in claiming that the Arousa laugh is the center of gravity of fishing and seafood at Galicia level. It has officially recognized natural values, a unique contour of biodiversity, a very powerful ecosystem, a socio-productive reality very intertwined with a natural reality, with water quality, with biodiversity, with characteristics that currently have a laugh. I mean, it would be a real time bomb for the approval of this mining macro-project, if it were to be carried out. If the People's Party does nothing to avoid the mega-mining project that is being processed, it will be an accomplice and consensor of a predatory company instead of an ally of the people of the river. At this very hour, the people of the sea and the people of the platform are gathered against the mine of Touro and O Pino, in the Arousa River, in Vilagarcia, and the immense amount of spills of mining activity and waste storage deposits pose an obvious risk to the quality of the waters of the Ulla and, therefore, the whole of the river, from which directly live 30,000 families, and have already exposed the data of those who live in an indirect way. Therefore, we present this non-law proposal, in which we ask the Council of the Sea to urge all the necessary actions not to authorize the San Rafael mining project, located in the Towns of Touro and O Pino, for the negative effects on the medium and incompatibility of the project with the due protection of the water from the basin and the mouth of the Ulla, of the natural spaces of this river system, with the fishing and seafood richness of the Arousa River, and in particular with the areas of production of mollusks and bivalves. And we also call for the removal of heavy metal pollution sources from the old mine to ensure, at least, that this exploitation does not compromise the environmental quality of the Ulla River and the Arousa River. We're not talking about futures, we're talking about mud rafts being a real risk right now. We have examples of rafts that break every year in different parts of the world and break in Galicia. We can talk about Carballo's ferry, which broke and contaminated three kilometers at its pace. We can talk about Santiso's ferry, we can talk about Aznalcollar...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u255	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u256	...we can talk not about burns, but about potential risks, real risks. We can talk about what we have to choose between the wealth that exists in Galicia, in the Town Councils of Touro and O Pino, but we have to talk about the wealth below and we have to talk about wealth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u257	Finish, Mrs. Prado, then have another thunder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u258	...real from the Arousa creek. That's why we bring this initiative, which asks us to choose between the wealth of our country or the speculative wealth of a predator company.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u260	It's very simple to choose from a rich country or from the wealth of a predator company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u261	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u262	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue to learn from the People's Party. This morning I was absolutely surprised to hear a voice from the People's Party saying that the Members of this Parliament were sitting in an armchair. And inexplicably the Members of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u263	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u264	...applause. I know I wasn't the one they were talking about, I know that perfectly. Of course, those on the left sitting in chairs, where we're chosen by the citizens, and we've also seen food from the house. We saw food from the house. [[Applause]] The word armchair, which has an absolutely negative connotation, all it does is destabilize politics, which is the political objective of the right here and in the rest of Europe. That's the point. We are not, Mrs Prado, willing to do a general cause against Galician mining, although we share much of your intervention. In the resolution of his intervention — and in that sense our amendment — we would ask that he never be authorized, if the law is complied with. A law which, of course, the Socialist Group — I insist — claims, that it is probably ten years old, that it is probably necessary to update and that it is necessary to progressively increase the environmental demands that we have to deal with these mining companies; in fact, the European Union itself is doing so. The best available technique criterion, MPD, is to introduce a dynamic element into everything that are the laws related to the mining and emission of polluting gases. Similarly, the European Union itself, in the ground-based reports — ground-based reports — progressively includes water analysis, which is, in fact, the central element of its initiative in relation to the impact of the Ulla river basin and later of the Arousa River. So I repeat again, we understand that the greatest need is essential. The Socialists said at the time that the project presented at the Galician Summit was not a viable project as it was presented. We presented a series of amendments that collected to a large extent the report of the Galician Natural History Society and which had to do with, curiously, most of them, with which is the water cycle and the need to ensure that these filtrations do not exist. So that's going to be our position. There are two clear parts in his initiative. Indeed, I understand that in the first, in our opinion, that is never rhetorical; it is not written there, but I understand what that means. I also understand that after the answer the sea counselor gave him, what he said, beyond that you lied, was that he was very attentive. I don't know where I was very careful. Political leaders should be either vigilant in technical matters or in political matters. They're two perfectly respectable areas that, of course, have to be combined. I understand, therefore, that discrepancy or mistrust. And the second block of your initiative has to do with the recovery of the current mining zone. An absolutely dramatic situation in terms not only of the water cycle of the future. All those who are worried about the water cycle, I tell them to go to the nucleus of Fonte Díaz, in Touro, and see the color of the stream coming down by a kind of riverwalk, which is absolutely Ríotinto, Huelva. So we all have that concern. The truth is that the performances ended in 1986 and, of course, we should all be very concerned for exactly thirty years, about, that these waters are being poured out. The Galician Board, in its so-called Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, one of the central axes — and I say which to quote at the foot of page—, OE 1.2.03, says: recovery of the spaces affected by abandoned mining; recovery and security actions of mining. Actually, none of that if you've done it. The budget splits of the Galician board in relation to mining have systematically declined year after year, and it is true, Mrs Prado, that the absolutely disconnected claims of the reality of mine managers, that there is a risk of spills...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u265	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u266	...—ending, Mr President, they are absolutely insufficient to anyone. There is no zero risk in any human activity, no mining, no transportation, no likely cleaning, therefore undoubtedly there is concern and we share it. We tabled an amendment and, should it not be accepted, we would ask for a point vote. We understand that the laws must be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u267	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u268	And, of course, when they don't satisfy us -- and this law I insist that it's been ten years and so it's probably necessary to change it -- what we have to do from politics is change them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u270	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. We're going to support this BNG initiative, and we wanted to remember what counsellor Count said in the past full: "You're doing mining politics. They oppose mining for political reasons." According to you, the accused party has no political motivation. His policy is Galicia and the good of the Greeks and the Greeks. In fact, they say what they say, their clear motivation that it is political, and the motivations of decisions that are made here are always political and based on different criteria. They can be based on expert reports; in legislation, which is often inspired by various ideologies or interests; other times by environmental criteria that come from the European Union, etc., and that translates into policies of defence or attack of the territory, of the future of our country and of the Greeks and Greeks, depending on which are the real interests and priorities of the various groups of the House. Policy to comply with the laws, if mining activities are compatible with the conservation of the environment and the socio-economic development of the territory. This is a clear example. If it is in the interests of companies related to the accused party, who share the model of preposing profit and money to the environment, to the productive sectors and directly affected citizens, or to the interest of the groups we believe in in companies and industries that respect our natural environment, they do not harm workers and workers, as in this case, the sea sector, and in particular those who care for the seafood in the already badly damaged banks of Ulla. We are not against industries and jobs, on the other hand, but we demand that industries and businesses that respect the environment, that comply with legislation in this area and that do not harm citizenship, but rather have a responsible and social exploitation with Galician citizenship. In extractive mining policy, we must assess with great precision and certainty the negative externalities that will occur in order to see that positive contributions to the territory, employment and the economy of the affected areas are offset. Since it is clear that if negative externalities and risks to the environment are inescapable, regardless of the possible positive repercussions, we must flatly reject these farms, and that is not party politics, it is to defend the country and its sustainability in the future; it is to defend the natural environment, the workers affected, and we repeat that citizenship in general. This is the case of the Touro-O Pino mine. The potential risks that will indefinitely hang like a Damocles sword over the municipalities affected, the Ulla basin and the Arousa stream, are inescapable, so exploitation is unrelenting. That is why we are going to support the BNG initiative. In the face of this situation, politics must indeed be done. Policy to change the harmful consequences of the policies of the accused party. In all this, in the last Commission 6th, as the comrades Pancho Casal and Juan Merlo said to me — Juan Merlo also shares with me the 8th, Fisheries and Marisqueo Commission — Mr Tahoces accused us of being against the free implementation. So my colleagues — and I agree with what they really think — are saying that we are against the free bar of foreign companies that carry the benefits, leave few jobs and destroy the natural Greek environment. And look, if you don't believe it, you can look at business multi-location statistics. So again the method fails. He built false stories and premises. True data shows that they lie. Regarding this LNP, we see that in the surveys and mining surveys carried out by Sociedade Cobre San Rafael S.L. in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino there is the absence of a hydrological and geotechnical study to clearly identify the sources, streams and streams of water existing in the area of mining, and the absence of authorization of the Galician Waters. Counsellor Count said in the previous plenary that it was not necessary. The thing is quite surprising, and we'd like to know what Mrs. Quintana, a science woman, thinks. In view of all this, we believe that it is obvious that Mrs Quintana and the ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the accused party, together with you, Members and Members, must take a decision. If you sit on the side of the business of insolidary and irresponsible companies, which only have the object of perishing for business money and profits, like in this case, the cost of the marine natural environment, and you're going to put these economic, ideological and political interests ahead of the preservation of the natural Greek environment. And if they're going to put it ahead of the workers and workers in the productive sectors that live from the banks of the Eye directly and indirectly, therefore, the majority of the society of the Greeks and the Greeks. Let the two advisers agree, both Mrs. Quintana and Mr. Conde, that they will defend themselves, and be consistent. We ask them to stand on the side of Galicia, this abused land among their political decisions, ransacks in the rivers, Prestige etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u272	...and get side by side with the workers and workers in the sea and Galician citizenship, which is pretty badly abused by decisions based on political and ideological interests of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u273	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We're in front of a new chapter in the Touro-O Pino series. It's chapter 20, between the different LNPs and questions, therefore, we can say that it's already consolidated series, so I'm going to make a new statement about something I haven't said until now: that this mining project, like any other one, will only receive authorization from the Galician Union when it's fully guaranteed compliance with urban, environmental and technical regulations. And the second thing I'm going to say is that, for the absolute tranquility of the left parliamentary arch lords, I also announce that the Greek Government will process this project in accordance with the Galician Mining Law of 2008, the law that you, the left groups, promoted, approved and even used. So, I have to tell you with all my heart that I'm sorry I haven't told you this before, and I hope that from now on you can be much more calmer and trust in public technicians and workers, as well as in the Government of the Union, which is also your government. [[Applause]] Mrs. Santos says they're not against industries or jobs, but tell me a single business project that you've approved. Just tell me one. And then you're done sliding a threat: tell yourself which side you're on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, for we are first of all on the side of fulfilling the law. Secondly, to support all sectors of production. And third, you've already spoken, let me now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u275	Quiet, please. Listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u276	And thirdly, we are on the side of supporting a sector such as mining, which depends on 6,000 direct jobs and so many indirect jobs, and which represents more than 1% of GDP, and you want to disregard them. The exploitation project and the restoration plan — which you do not say, and you know — and the environmental impact study of the Touro landfill are following the ordinary processing procedure, according to which autonomous legislation establishes, paying particular attention to the project fulfilling the environmental impact declaration. In this way, Junta implements a secure and rigorous process, which leads to allowing only those sustainable and respectful activities with the environment and with the pre-existing activities, such as agribusinesses and sea-fishing. We also understand that the neighbors and the sectors involved, especially if they listen to you every day, they may be worried. But all the information they need from the Administration is — and the sectors are aware of it. There were several meetings to provide them with all the information about the process and mine activity in the future. They know the Board's offer to redouble the mine worm control system by means of a joint plan between Galician Waters, Environmental Laboratory and Intemar. They know that the company must constitute sufficient financial guarantees to guarantee the restoration of the affected land before the start of the farm work, and for that they have constituted an interim guarantee of EUR 670,000. As far as the ferry is concerned, we have to say that the Galician Water Technicians moved to the Touro mine, as they often do, to inspect the surroundings and check what the situation was. During the visit they found that, coincident with the intense rains recorded last week, there had been a flood of the raft of the Bama cut, which corresponds to the restored area of the old Touro mine. That's the source of the spill and not the other one. In any case, the results of the analyses taken in the river waters of the area are limited to the river Brandelos, without affecting the Ulla. I repeat, without having ever affected the Ulla River. For his tranquillity I also tell you that the Board has commissioned a file to verify the success of the company, and at this point it continues to process. Ladies and gentlemen, the Union and its technicians are constantly monitoring the law and respect for the environment, and they do so by applying the law passed in 2008 by the Bipartisan Government, when Mrs. Montse Prado was the delegate of Industry in Pontevedra. Mrs. Prado, I ask you a question with all due respect, but also with all clarity, are you a predator? Were you an environmental predator? Were you worried about the middle? Because now we know that you did, but when you ruled...? Or was it that when the two-party government, which granted more than 100 research permits and 43 operating concessions, were all good? In addition, you signed a minimum of 15 resolutions between 2005 and 2007, authorising 4 research and 11 operating concessions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u277	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u278	...and 45% of operating resolutions were for metals. So I ask him again: Are you a predator? [[Murmurs.]] I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, our group trusts a safe, sustainable and possible mine, even if you now say otherwise. So we have already taken an initiative precisely on the line that Mr. Losada said: we want you to insist on strict compliance with the law, with maximum guarantees, and to extend all precautions. And I also tell you, Mrs. Prado, that we are going to reject your initiative because you are asking the Government of Galicia to prevarice. But if you accept the amendment of the Socialist Group, which seems to us a more appropriate text, we could work on a joint transaction. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Prado Cores, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u280	It's a pity, I don't know if Mr. President will be fine, because I'd like to have time to explain it. One of these days I could bring the listing, yes, yes... but I don't have any problems at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Absolutely no problem! I'm very proud to have been part of a government that has approved a Law of Mining, with the scarce powers that the Galician Union has — and that the People's Party refuses to increase because it's very comfortable for Madrid to decide—a law that made the Greek Government have competences to be able to condition projects like this and that the People's Party has amended the Law of Predation to leave without competence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, I'm sorry, because that law of 2008 — which would have to change, but not in the direction in which the People's Party changed it, not in that direction — gives the Government powers to condition the projects. Whoever doesn't want to condition projects is the People's Party. And right now, with the law of 2008 in hand, this mega-project, which is a colonial and spoiler project, is why the Galician Nationalist Block opposes that project... and the non-law proposition that brings the BNG is not a non-law proposition that opposes any mining project -- I feel it is wrong to read it -- is against that mega-project. Because it's impossible for that megaproject, as it is, to be controlled and not a time bomb, neither for the territory of Touro and O Pino, neither for the shell, nor for the laugh. It's impossible, and that's why we oppose that mining project. It's that simple. It's a colonial and spoiler project, so of course! And BNG is in favour of the country, of the Greeks and the Greeks. And in this case, this initiative is from the people of the sea. Thousands of men and women living in the creek and who, as I said before, are gathered because they won't be allowed to risk their bread! They won't be allowed to risk their bread! [[Applause]] They won't let you! [[Applause]] And look at a little thing, Counselor — you repeated it the other day — how do you want us to be calm when you say: can I tell you that the exploitation project, the restoration plan and the environmental impact study of the Touro landfill are following the ordinary processing procedure? The restoration project is following the ordinary processing procedure! Did you guys go that way? But who can believe anything at all? Too bad! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And how can you say...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u282	How can we be calm when a sea councillor, who had to give priority to defending the people of the sea, can say things like that the Intemar will act as they see, making monitoring and control tool? But if this activity didn't even start...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u284	...you'll understand that it wouldn't be serious to start talking about possible affect! I mean, they can't worry because there's no problem yet. Do you expect a raft - with copper, with arsenic, with heavy metals - to take action?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u285	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u286	And they want us to be calm!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u288	They want us to be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u289	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u290	And you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u291	Thank you very much. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u292	Just a second, if you'll do me a favor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u293	It's been 59 seconds longer. Please, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u294	As for the amendment of the Socialist Party, of course, we cannot accept it. We shall accept the vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u295	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u296	And, of course, once again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u297	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u298	...we regret that the People's Party is not able to put...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-06-DSPG062.u299	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Time's up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mrs. Prado! Thank you very much for being positioned on the amendment. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you all very much.
