ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Forgive this little delay, but it was because they are with us today — as I said the other day — the dermatologists of the Hospital of Pontevedra and Santiago. I've been with them now to greet them and see how they organize the recognition they're going to make today. That's why this little delay. Sorry about that. We begin with the sixth item on the agenda, questions for the oral response of the President of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the defense of a Welsh agenda in front of the Central Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u3	Thank you very much, President. Welcome, Mr. Feijó. Allow me to welcome you after these fifteen days of absence, these fifteen days that you used to value if you would make up for taking the fear of a party convicted of corruption or if it was better for you to stay in Montepío. And, closed this hummingbird, let's go what really matters, which are the people who live in Galicia and the challenges we have in the future. And let me bring here a sentence that you said this Monday, by the way, in rigorous Spanish: "Galice won't be away, Galicia won't be quiet, she won't stay still," end of the appointment. Mr. Feijóo, Galicia has never been quiet or quiet; who has been absent you have been for ten years, quiet and quiet, putting the interests of the PP above the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] In any case, I wonder if this proclamation is the recognition of the error of his worship in Madrid and now he intends to make amends. [[Applause]] It's too early for you to -- don't get nervous -- that the BNG won't allow any rags. [[Murmurs.]] And I hope that your way of giving folders to these years of servitude is not to use Galicia as a PP weapon to make opposition in Madrid. I hope you don't fall into temptation to use Galicia in the pim pam pum because you're angry because you've lost your power. Because, look, that would be to repeat the worst and oldest politics, which is to defend one thing in Galicia and the opposite in Madrid, which is to say one thing when they rule theirs and oppose it when they are in opposition. And look, therefore, if you really want to change your course and start to look around this country, then it goes up to the Welsh agenda that we propose from the BNG to defend before the state, a country agenda that should include all the issues that the People's Party has been vetoing so far. Matters that are important for the future of this country: the transfer of AP-9, the derogation from the extension of Ence, an economic concert, the return of the palace of Meirás, the modernization of the railway — which includes the AVE but also the vicinity — a Greek electric tariff or the 180 million euros that the state owes to us by dependence. And finally, we also demand that we prevent Galicia from staying behind in the debate of the nations, that we make an ambitious proposal again as a political framework that allows us to have control and to be able to decide on those matters that are key to the future of our country. Mr. Feijóo, show you're left to exercise as president and we're pushing the Welsh agenda, which you've been unable to defend before Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask me if I'm going to start defending the Greek agenda before the state or if I'm going to continue to subordinate Galicia to the personal agenda. Personal agendas are shown every time we have an opportunity to debate, Mrs Pontón. He's already known, his is marked by the interest in winning the protagonist, the protagonist that the Greeks denied him in the polls. And that of the Union — which, of course, is mine, because I am its first server — is trying to solve the problems of the Greeks. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, it is important enough not to be subordinated to any agenda, and much less that it is subordinated to my own agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no more agenda than Galicia, that's my schedule yesterday, today and tomorrow. [[Applause]] That's my schedule, Your Honor. And it's an honor. I assure you that you don't change this schedule for anything else, even if you still don't believe it, but that's your problem. [[Applause]] I have and we have a Greek schedule and, of course, we're going to demand that it be fulfilled. We're not going to change our mind, Mrs. Pontón. Let's see what you guys do. For now, their background believes that the Greeks don't trust us, they don't trust you. I just remember your background. When he ruled the PP, he had to ask for the transfer of AP-9, but when he ruled PSOE Mrs. Pontón voted against requesting the transfer of AP-9. When ruling the PP, it was a matter of detail to get 400 million euros, because we are not going to pay the fees of a state highway; when ruling the BNG and the PSOE, they signed the document to deliver to the Government of Spain 7 million euros each year until 2048 — in total, 400 million euros from the Greeks — to pay a fee from a state highway. [[Murmurs.]] When he ruled the PP, 11% of the State investment budget in Galicia was insufficient; when he ruled the BNG, 8% was the most idyllic. Mrs. Pontón, when she ruled the PP, the Block set up a concert and a coupon for Galicia, but when she ruled the PSOE, the Block changed the coupon for "intelligent cooperation." When he ruled the PP in Madrid, you demanded that the pensions be raised, but when he governs the PSOE in Madrid, he makes it up to you to freeze the pensions. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, that's your biography and your party's, and this is our biography and our party's. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, will I go on? Of course! With my party in Madrid, in the opposition or in the Government, we're still asking for the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic; that's right, not at any price. [[Applause]] We're going to demand that the final deadline of the high-speed train be met, which enters Galicia in the year 2019. We will demand that self-financing be met on the basis of the principles of solidarity and equity. And, of course, Your Honor, I am not going to admit express constitutional reforms to recruit the members of the precarious Government of Madrid. I will be, I am and will remain the only constitutional president of a historical nationality in Spain. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, today is June 20th. We said 15 days ago we met here today, June 20th, and here we are, Mrs. Pontón. I'm sorry again that it's not satisfied...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u7	...the prophecy of nationalists about my future. My future has already been decided by the Greeks in 2009, they decided again in 2012 and they will decide again in 2019. Your Honor, my energies will always be where they were in Galicia; yours, Mrs. Pontón, are in other corners of politics, among them in slander. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u8	Thank you, Mr. Feijó. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u9	Mr. Feisó did, indeed, we continue to see you here today. And, in any case, it will be his prophecies, because he who has spent 15 days on a show — very well mounted, by the way, Mr. Feijóo — saying he was more interested, creating expectations, summoning everyone, to say that he wanted to take a step back in his personal ambitions, was you. You can sell this as you like. [[Applause]] It can indeed use the public media, as it is doing, to manipulate the reality of this country. We have just seen, Mr. Feijóo, how public media presenters resign because they denounce the manipulation of information and the perverse use that you are making of means that are of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Applause]] But look, yesterday — to follow up with appointments of people whom you at least imagine to have some esteem — Mr. Puy told us here that there were people in this Parliament who came to lie, who built half-truths, who created parallel universes and who were installed in postverity. I think it's impossible to define it better for you than Mr. Puy did at yesterday's session. [[Applause]] Because look, let me give you a list of what your Welsh agenda was during this time. Your Greek schedule was an accomplice in the AP-9 transfer veto. His Greek schedule was to be an accomplice to the delay of the AVE, in an AVE that comes from second to second for this country. Its Greek agenda is to veto an economic concert and have no alternative or financing proposal. Your big German agenda is to veto a Welsh electric fare for this country or to be incapable of even, Mr. Feijóo, of demanding Rajoy the 180 million euros that the state owed us by dependence. That is his great achievement and his great merit. And look — with all cordiality — I don't think you're in a position to give us lessons in relation to AP-9, because I don't know if you've seen these days that there are some highways that are going to end their payroll. And do you know why you can't finish the AP-9 fee right now? Because you, along with Mr Aznar, decided to extend this highway by 2048 and privatize it. That's your inheritance in AP-9 matter to come now to teach us lessons of what, Mr. Feijóo, do you choose from what? You have zero proposals on this new stage. He shows us once again that he comes here thinking the world is turning around his head. And, Mr. Feijóo, don't forget that the important thing isn't you, the important thing is this country and the people who live here. And at this time he was unable to do absolutely anything positive. What is your schedule? The disappearance of the boxes. That's the great achievement and the great merit that you leave to this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u11	Mr. Feijóo, you have the opportunity to demonstrate, now, that you are no hostage to your party in Madrid, that you are here for something more than to occupy that chair and the official residence of Montepío. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u13	But, Mrs. Pontón, you have to have a minimum memory, at least it last takes you since the last control session, it's fifteen days!, it's not so much either. You were the one who meant you were using Galicia as the VIP room waiting to catch the plane to Madrid. And now it turns out that I'm playing these kinds of questions and considerations? You're talking about what I talked about in perfect Spanish. Mrs. Pontón, I'm Spanish. Yes! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm Spanish! [[Murmurs.]] And consequently, as Spanish, I have my duty and duty to use Spanish. I am President of Galicia, Mrs. Pontón. I understand that you don't understand this duality, but that's what we are. The Greeks, Your Honor, we are Spanish and our way of being Spanish is to be Greek and our way of defending Galicia is to speak in Spanish and Galician Spain. That's our way of defending the country, without any kind of cutbacks. [[Applause]] No, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Perhaps you at your BNG meetings take a few applause — not the discussion —. You talk to your fellow Greek electric farers about concerts like the Basques and, therefore, about having thousands and billions of euros more; you tell them about the transfers of highways — yes, forgetting that you and your group didn't want the highway when they were ruling as partners in Madrid. But, yes, what you don't talk about in your group is the contradictions of your message and the half-truths. I'm convinced you applaud her because you have a very simple schedule: her schedule is to defend the nationalist idea above the Greeks. But, of course, the agenda is so simple that the goal is to look for a permanent enemy, a permanent enemy of Galicia, because you confuse Galicia with BNG. Imagine that Galicia was the BNG, we would be just ridiculous in the national concept. What would you never propose to be a candidate for the Presidency of the Government of Spain? Obviously! But you won't even be proposed by the Greeks to be a candidate for the presidency of the Government of the Union! I understand that, Your Honor, do not enter your parameters. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have never cheated the Greeks nor will I do so, among other things, because the Greeks — don't think so, don't underestimate them — are ready. In Galicia there is intelligent life, they vote freely and we vote every four years, and every four years we choose what we think is best for our country. And that's why, Mrs. Pontón, every four years we understand that you are the worst for our country. In the same way as... Out of respect, Your Honor, to the election results? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Is it lacking in this regard to recall the election results? [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, failing to do so is what you do every time I have the opportunity to address you at the control sessions. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, look, Mrs. Pontón, I've looked for, I'll look for, and I'll try to be consistent. And you do everything the opposite, they criticize me for being consistent. Yeah, they criticize me because I'm leaving and now they criticize me because I'm staying. That's the maximum coherence. [[Murmurs.]] Madam Pontón, point out: I would rather be President of the Union and give up being a candidate for the presidency of the Government of Spain than give up the word given to the Greeks. That's my schedule. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u14	Thank you, President. Question by Dr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the future guarantee of projects implemented as the reform of forest policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u15	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u16	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. I must admit I was wrong. You chose to continue as President of the Council of Galicia and I don't want to speculate on the reasons for making this decision. You've already given an explanation. Stay there. There are two years left to finish this legislation, perhaps a little more. It's a fair time to concentrate on employment, to try to reach the same number of occupations you had when you arrived at the Presidency of the Union, to reduce the territorial imbalance, to fully comply with the Dependency Act or to make a policy that reverses the cuts in public services you had in the previous years of your mandate. We'll talk about all this in the autumn, in the debate of the state of Galicia, which takes place as it is preceptive, but I think you first have to keep some previous promises, you have to clean up your balance so you can face these two years that have better prospects and generate credibility for citizens. And that's what I'm asking you to do now. For example, today there was some allusion. I think we should fully comply with the Media Act which we passed by a large majority in this Parliament in 2011. It is about strengthening professional status, setting up the Drafting Board and electing the Director General in this Parliament, giving TV the opportunity to be a means for all, a professional environment, a neutral medium, a means that earns credibility. It's also about you approving, at last, the plan of building public residences that has been announcing to us for too many years. We have proposed to generate residences for 1,000 people for four years, which would allow us to begin to alleviate that deficit, and, in the meantime, drive concertation, because waiting lists are unbearable. We also proposed — and I believe that it is also implicitly part of your promises — a catalogue of health benefits that prevent peripheral hospitals from being in worse conditions than central hospitals. I should also keep this promise. Retrieve language consensus. The 2004 General Language Standardization Plan is a good reference to this. Go back to the decree they passed and have sown linguistic discord and what some qualified people in this matter say it was for a plate of electoral lentils. Same women and men on the board of directors of state-owned companies. And finally, let us close the Fire and Forest Policy Commission with the necessary in-depth reforms... yes, yes, yes, with the necessary in-depth reforms to reverse the policies that have led to a failure in recent times, giving the rural environment a future and its potential for development. [[Murmurs.]] I believe that, with all this, Mr Feijóo, it would be possible to do so, and we offer you the necessary consensus so that you can reverse these policies, if you need it, if you need it. Creating conditions to be able to modify what hasn't worked well for all these years would be a good service for the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u17	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I thank you for your correction. I will correct you, too, Mr. Leicega. I had doubts whether you would continue to be spokesperson for your group today. We therefore invite you to maintain the spokespersonship of your group and I am the Chair of the Union until the end of the legislation of the year 2020. [[Applause]] And I say it because it's quite constructive to be able to talk to you. You tell me if we're gonna get more money for the Dependency Act. Mr. Leicega, I propose a consensus to do so. I'll have a chance to see the President of the Central Government in July. Don't worry, Mr. Leicega, that I will propose to comply with the Dependency Act in its entirety. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, it's now when social policies have arrived in Spain, don't you remember this? [[Laughter]] We probably need much less than you asked here. I'm concerned that Mr. Sánchez pays attention to half the things you said in this House that Galicia needed. But finally, Mr. Leicea, it is true that socialism lives in uncertainty, and that is a way of life. But in this country, if there is something stable, if there is something full of certainty, if there is something that has solid support, if there is something that guarantees the stability of institutions, it is the current Council of Galicia and the current Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. But that's our commitment to the voters and, therefore, doesn't believe that we're doing anything extraordinary, we're doing our job. It's true, Your Honor, that I thought for a moment that we were in the debate in Galicia state, but you're talking to me about the director of Tele. But, Mr. Leicega, I understand that you and I have to do, take a pencil and a role to point out the various spokesmen of the Socialist Party who have had the opportunity to enjoy since I am president of the Union. But I've already agreed to the director of the TVG. If now the current leadership of the Socialist Party doesn't like the director of the TVG, you have every right of the world to change your mind. But if every spokesman of the Socialist Party changes his mind about the director of the TVG, what do you think, Your Honor? What should we change as director of the TVG as the Socialist Party changes as spokesman in the Chamber? That wouldn't be reasonable, Mr. Leicega. I don't think you're coming to ask me for this. [[Applause]] A profitable forest sector, first objective, and avoid misuse, i.e. abandonment, which is the main threat to the forest fires of the Galician mountain; these are our targets. And I think we've done things that have certainly never been done before. We have three new laws adopted: the Land Mobility Act, the Mountain Law and the Law of Improvement of Galicia's Agrarian Territorial Structure. For the first time in Galicia there are zero taxes in rural areas, that is, in the forest sector; zero. That means 26,000 Greeks bought or sold land and saved more than 10 million euros in taxes. This is the first time we've been with a partial restructuring with as much intensity as in the forest sector. We have a plan for the mobilization of abandoned rustic lands. We have an incorporation into the Land Bank for the first time of the abandoned common-hand neighboring mountains. We have a mobilisation of abandoned lands with concrete projects in different parts of Galicia for over 1,500 hectares. Your Honor, this is the first time we are supporting the management of the mountain with public money and have to make all the neighboring mountains in common a forest management plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we can keep talking about this in the reply. You're offering me forest consensus. Let's be consensual, Mr. Leicega. I formally ask for a consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u20	...with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Don't use the Forest Plan, as you say, for a set of scattered votes. We're going to continue with forest policy, we'd like to be with the Socialist Party. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. I forgot before — and I apologize — to greet the 5th grade students of the College of Saint Ánxel, Ourense, in addition to my land. They're greeted. Welcome to Parliament. Now yes, reply, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u22	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I don't know if today, with this profusion of candidates for the presidency of the People's Party, is the best time to assume political stability in your party. But I don't want to focus on it. [[Applause]] No, Mr. Tellado, look: I came a moment when I came to regret that Mr. Feijóo might leave thinking that you might be the substitute, if you did, because he was out in the press, that possibility would go out in the press. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] I'm saying it 'cause he's very angry there. But let's see: one of the concrete proposals I made to him was part of his 2009 contract, which is still in force, and it shouldn't be, because two legislatures and peak have passed. And I don't ask you impossible in the short term, I say; I'm not asking you, I say, to eliminate territorial imbalance. I'm asking you questions that basically depend on you. Look: in your contract, he was talking about democratic regeneration. What better than professional and neutral media than a director general of the Radio and Television Company elected according to the law that we all gave in 2011! That depends on what you want, point, there's no other kind of requirement. He assured the contract that he wanted to regain consensus, especially in the language. How much better than putting back the decree that he did was to break the consensus justly with those who have the legal obligation to look after the language! I promised in the contract quality in health care and that all Greeks have the same opportunities and services, living where they live. We're still waiting for hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo and Ourense. And that catalogue of benefits that it seeks to order and guarantee those living around peripheral hospitals with a minimum of quality guarantees in health care. He promised territorial balance. Well, I should be willing that, in the North Coast VAC, the sections that are already with the ready project will be auctioned this year. And then the contract also talked about sustainable development. And in particular, in the forest sector I believe there can be a consensus. We have just proposed a hundred measures, which we have already brought to the Commission, to reform forest policy, among which we have considerably strengthened the Land Bank; or, among them, to make municipal brigades become professional and dependent of the Galician Union; or, among them, to promote extensive grassland that will also reduce the risk of fires in the areas where they are deployed; or to establish a maximum percentage in district management plans to the proportion of eucalyptus in the arboreal masses. These are measures which can be discussed within that committee and which can give rise to consensus, but which mean a remarkable change in its forestry policy these years. I continue to say: if you go there, if there is a real will to reform, to change what exists, we can tend our hand, but there must be consensus for reforms, not consensus in return for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u23	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u24	I also greet the boys and girls of this Orensan school and thank them for coming to Parliament to see how the parliamentarians we try to represent them. Mr. Leicega, I ask Mr. Tellado not to ask for the floor for allusions, because, as you know, when someone speaks about the PP, it always causes hilarity in the House; however, when our opposition friends speak, the PP's are always very careful at what they tell us. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Mr. Leicega, you have no doubt: I am attentive to the stability of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; you have no doubt, Mr. Leicega, especially the Socialist Party of Galicia. But, finally, we're going to keep talking about the important, which, as today seems to be, is all. Well, I appreciate it, but in the fall we'll be able to talk about it. The hemodynamics? Indeed, when I arrived in Lugo there was no hemodynamics room. You guys had been in government for four years, managing 10,000 million euros, but they didn't have time or an hour of hemodynamics. And now, yes, what they're trying to do is deceive the people of Lugo about hemodynamics. Just like the vial on the coast. Exactly how many miles have you opened with the vial of the coast? Zero. We made the Ortigueira variant, opened another stretch in the province of Lugo and we're setting up the Living Town Hall a definitive solution for its blockades. I hope, Your Honor, that you won't ask me here for a solution for Viveiro and Viveiro to vote against any solution. It's usually customary, Mr. Leicega. But, as we had to talk about the forest — and for me it is very important — Mr Leicega, you voted against all the laws to regulate the forest sector: the Law of Mountains, the Law of Land Mobility, the Law of Improvement of Agricultural Structure. We made agreements with the Greek municipalities. Ten percent of the socialist councils don't want to sign a single agreement with the Union for the extinction of forest fires. Surprising! And when we see where the forest fires occurred in the socialist councils in October, most of them had no interest, no brigades, no conventions for preventive actions on the mountain. And we've been quiet, Mr. Leicega. Why? Because we're interested in consensus. We dedicated for the first time 7 million euros to 220 municipalities and so they could hire 430 more employees (the Rural Aprol). We've been financing 70 tractors in two years. We helped for the first time buy machinery, 8 million euros of public money, 24 million investments induced for 200 pemes. We installed a surveillance network in Galicia for the first time through cameras covering a large part of the forest territory. We have made the greatest effort at forest-shared concentrations of the last decade. We simplify the cuts in Galicia, that's yes, protecting, of course, the natives but simplifying the cuts of conifers and eucalyptuses. For the first time zero taxes in rural areas. And now we're presenting a new forest plan. Ten measures, ten proposals, ten decisions. Mr. Leicega, I'm not talking about stories, I'm making the count. I compared in this House in October, I proposed thirty measures in relation to this set of actions in the Forest Plan, 70% of those measures performed and 30% in execution or processing. Mr. Leiceaga, proposal from the Forest Plan: eucalyptus, 16% of the land; the rest, deciduous, leafy or pine. Mr. Leicega, I represent the Greeks on the Forest Plan, to all the Greeks; you, as I see, do not represent exactly all the Greeks — it doesn't matter — represent a part, above all the interests of some Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u26	You have every right to make your demonstrations with the forest industry, of course, of course, Mr. Leicega; so far we could get here. Would we like to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party? Of course. And come to an agreement with the whole industry? Of course. We shall provisionally approve the Forest Plan. Most of the measures you propose are or will be incorporated into the dictates. We will approve this plan provisionally and we will open a period of allegations. Mr. Leicega, I hope in the allegations. Now that you and I are going to be here until 2020 at least, Mr. Leicega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u27	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u28	...—I think you have the right to stay much longer, and I say it because I believe it is an asset of the Socialist Party, without any doubt—for, well, let's agree on the forest plan, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u30	Don't let the People's Party take over Galicia's forest policy again. Nothing else and thank you very much. Let's share it! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u31	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea on the pollution of Galician waters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u32	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Núñez. How are you? How did it go about Madrid? Brief but intense, isn't it? Look, from En Marea we deeply rejoice that you decided to stay in Galicia, we think it's best for you. Yes, of course! In Madrid the heat is abaphant, especially in the summer; where there is a good walk through the Arousa River that takes off the Manzanares, that of course; perhaps, that is, as Santalices now recommended, putting on cream to avoid melanoma. Yeah, maybe we should take advantage of and advertise what our fellows come to tell us today from the rostrum. You have to see the disgust that they do, right, with the good things that are for the body the People's Party creams. Look, today you have no problem, we haven't seen you talk about the People's Party, because you have enough with yours. That, one thing, of his walks through the Arousa creek, we're just interested in and worried about something from The Tide: the Arousa's laugh, and that's what we've been talking about. Do you know what the Touro mine project is? It is a mega-mining project that will literally undo the Town Councils of Pino and Touro, because it will drill literally, expel people from their homes and expel people from their jobs, which will contaminate the Ulla River and the Arousa River, which will kill fish, kill shellfish and contaminate the waters that drink more than 100,000 people and that will historically ruin Santiago's Way in its final line before reaching Compostela. Did you know this, Mr. Feijóo? I probably didn't know, because the TVG doesn't tell you, and it'll be the only means of communication you see; it won't certainly tell you to save us bad news, which unfortunately already has enough life. There are people who actually say that this is information bite, and that's why they resign the newsstanders, and that's why workers and workers manifest themselves Friday after Friday claiming freedom of information. But they certainly protest for no reason. As they also protest for no reason — and I have to tell you because it doesn't go out on the TVG — more than 30,000 people last June 10 with more than one hundred organizations and spaces of civil society, including, by the way, several mayors and concellers of the People's Party in the range of the Arousa River, to defend life and against the mine. Because maybe some people voted PP, but they don't want to be poisoned or taken off their jobs with pollution. Look, today we know several official reports, this one from the Spanish Geomino Institute -- when it was still the state governed by the good ones, not now, that is already governed by the bad ones -- where it is said that the economic report and the report and the general project of the Touro mine is a mess. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a document]] If you don't trust the state report, you have another official report, this one from Galician Waters, where you collect all the heavy metal measurements that you already have the aquifers and you have the Ulla River, which demonstrate a pollution above that legally permitted. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a document]] And I'm not going to tell you any more of the complaints of private and ecologicalists, of course. The question in this case, already directly, is, how long will it take to give a folder to the Touro mine project? When are you going to enforce the law? Look, you used to say yesterday in a media medium, in relation to your own future and your own past, that the train to go to Madrid or I don't know where it happened too fast. Look, for these two years, where you haven't served as president of the Galician Union, many trains have been passed by to the Greeks and to the Greeks. We lost the train, we lost the highway, we lost the boys and girls who went to emigration; because we lost, we even lost children who don't want to be born because they don't see the future with you. Yes! [[Murmurs.]] And, in the meantime, only you were worried about losing a train. Well, look, now that there's no train, that there's no station, that there's no ticket, you're going to rule. Do it for the people of Galicia and say "no" to the Bull Mine. And if he doesn't do it for them -- and I'm done now --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u34	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u35	...do it for yourself; in your golden retreat the walks through the rivers will be more pleasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u36	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are people who confuse Parliament with an assembly of its political organization. Good. There are people who use language that offends most of the Greeks we try to represent, actually. There are people who, when they see seventy people gathered, believe that it's to give a rally, because usually their assemblies don't go so far. But, Mr. Villares, this is the Galician Parliament, even though you, who's been here for two years, don't respect it. Institutions respect you, Mr. Villares. I understand that now the Greeks are very concerned about your re-exercising as a judge, because we've already realized that you've never been a judge. But from there, Mr. Villares, you can continue to say all these considerations, as it is my fault that there are no children in Galicia. Of course, you don't help much, Mr. Villares. Let's move on. It seems to you, among other things, that he is concerned about water pollution. Of course, that's a goal of the German Government. We have a road map, the Galician hydrological plan-side; you're sure you haven't read it, you're not interested. One hundred and fifty measures, 654 million euros, of which 130 million are destined for laughter. But in addition to that road map, I'm coming to the House today to tell you what we've invested in since we got to the government. Note, Mr Villares: EUR 1.100 million. In sanitation, 350 performances in 165 municipalities; in supply, 600,000 Greeks with new supplies, with an investment of 186 million euros; in debuggers, 45 new debuggers that we put into service for 1,700,000 galleys. And as far as the laughs are concerned, the citizens who live in the creeks, 882,000 Greeks have new debuggers. In the Vigo River we invested 200 million euros; in the Burgo River, more than 100 million euros; in the Pontevedra River, more than 36 million euros; in the Arousa River, more than 55 million euros; in the Ferrol River — complete—, 385 million euros; although the Ferrol Council took one and a half years to forward a proposal for action, despite that, 385 million euros; and in the High Rhine, 20 million euros. Finally, laughs, in which we have invested 804 million euros. Until 2020 we have more projects, logically — we will continue in the Government. In the Ferrol River, in the Arousa River, in the river Pontevedra, in Rianxo, in Vilagarcia, in Cambados, on the island of Arousa, in Poio — if we are allowed to do the debugger and establish a place—, in Praceres — in Pontevedra — in Cabanas — in Pontedeume — and in Burela. I suppose you sound like those localities. And how does this translate? At the best of the water. When we arrived at the Government, Your Honor, 21% of the waters in Galicia were zone C, which is the worst in the areas; now we're down to 8.7%. When we got to the government, the best water catalogue in zone A was 3% and now we're at 22%; that is, they've improved more than 7 points the total water in Galicia. And what does that mean? In shellfish, because we increase by 25% the catches and in billing by 15%. About Touro, are you gonna keep fooling people or do you want to be serious? Are you gonna keep fooling people or are we serious? Of course, we're going to be serious. We did it in Ferroatlantics, we did it in Corcoesto, and of course we're going to do it on any proposal and file that starts at the Galician Union. Did we detect contamination? Three open files. Not the Ulla River? None. In the perimetery streams? Yes, three files. Are you going to keep saying that the Ulla River is intoxicating itself as a result of this mine? You miss the word and respect of the Greeks again, there you are!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u39	Stop creating social alarm, stop using the lie as a permanent banner. And if you want to talk about the Touro mine, let's talk seriously. Do you know that Touro mine has an effective concession until the year 2068? Do you know that? Why are you saying we're giving a concession? When we arrived at the Government, this concession was in force until 2068.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u41	Mr. Leicega, don't lie to them so much... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u42	Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u43	Mr. Villares, I'm sorry, you don't lie so much to the Greeks. He's lying to the Greeks so much that you don't believe him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u45	Mr President, you don't seem to know what is published in the DOG, you do well, because on August 25th -- yes, yes -- last year was when you published the new project that aims to exploit the Touro and O Pino mine and that you intend to do all this environmental water -- published in the Official Journal of Galicia on August 25th. [[Murmurs.]] Look, this year, as I was reminded yesterday by a girlfriend, a girl named Isabel, who lives in Touro and doesn't want to be thrown out of her county, she asked the following: are you going to act with "godly"? "Agostosity" is this popular variant of the People's Party, right?, of the alleviation that consists in using means, forms or methods that prevent or hinder the defense of the offender, in this case the defense of the neighbours. Will they also do the following procedures during the summer to prevent people from being able to defend themselves? Look, you're very good at all this data that comes from debuggers, but what we're talking about is a present problem and a problem that comes to the future in case all the mining activity is developing, and it's already happening as a result of the previous mining activity. The data I just presented here are official data of Galician Waters, which you once again do not know — and they are already two in less than a minute: both publication in the Official Journal of Galicia and data from Galician Waters. You have the opportunity to give a folder immediately, because the Environmental Predation Act that you yourself approved in this Parliament allows you to do so quickly. So please apply. If he acts, on the other hand, in favour of the particular interests of a mine and against the general interests of the whole of Galician citizenship, for in the end the particular interests will turn against you, as they have turned up to now, and then, at the most inappropriate moment, their own party partners will come and take care of them. Look, we don't care about the reasons why you decided to stay, that's what happens now; if it was for illegal funding, for corruption, for Martial, for Telmo...; we don't care. We're interested in knowing what's left. After two years as president in office, as President of Stone Card, who didn't make the country's interests stand, so what's left now? Galicia isn't a consolation prize for those who didn't have the courage to introduce themselves to primary women, it's not a consolation prize. So, if you're going to work, get ready, right away. Last weekend 30,000 people went out to the streets because they don't resign themselves to their policies, because they don't resign themselves to pollution, because they don't resign themselves to hopelessness and the future, and a lot of disappointed people came out with you, disappointed with the People's Party, because you didn't satisfy the minimum wishes and minimum social rights these people wanted. Do something, work for Galicia, end at least with preventing the Touro mine from moving forward, and of course you have two years to do so, as you said yourself, and I hope you keep trying after 2020. I'm glad in that sense that you didn't leave, because for In Marea and for the whole of citizenship it will be a pleasure to be able to defeat him in the polls in 2020... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u46	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u47	...and that we don't like your comrades of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u48	Thank you. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u49	Well, Mr. Villares, we finally agreed to something: you're glad that I didn't leave and I'm very glad that you followed. Mr. Villares, if you need me to follow you, know that I'm going to sign all the goods to En Marea so that you're still the charismatic leader of that set of groups that make up the tides. [[Applause]] Let's get a bit of a mood, Mr. Villares, because I have nothing personal against you, of course. What happens is that I don't go out of my surprise with your speeches — I tell you with absolute cordiality. You have two years to change them, at least if you leave them, but I would like to be able to discuss something with you, really, seriously, to look at us and say, Mr. Villares has a proposal other than that of the Government and the Government has a proposal other than that of Mr. Villares. That's politics. But politics is not a lie, Mr. Villares. Politics is not to come here saying that we want to authorize a mine. That mine is authorized and has a concession until the year 2068, and that plot is an exploitation of one of the minerals for which it is granted. And open files have nothing to do with copper, nothing, zero. It's the current exploitation of arids, not copper, and the arrest of copper produces waters up in the Ulla River, and not waters under the mine, because there's copper in that area, Mr. Villares. And you're fooling everyone again, and a Parliament can't fool the Greeks it represents, because that's the anti-politics, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] What do you want? That we don't pass a file according to a law? You mean we broke a law? Do you intend us to prevaricate without starting a file that any administrator in Galicia is entitled to? You mean, Mr. Villares, that we don't follow a law that we don't approve of, but the Bipartite, a law of the year 2008? Mr. Villares, where you rule, Aragon included, you make extraordinary mining operations, and in Galicia every proposal, of course, is a slander to miners, the sector, the workers, businesses and the Government. Mr. Villares, we don't promote any project, we're just processing a company request, and if you don't do it, you won't have it; and you need fifteen reports, and if you don't have those fifteen reports, you won't. That's obvious. We are the guardians of the law, even though you don't even remember what the law is. Strict compliance with all reports. [[Applause]] We apply a law of the Bipartite. You were in the party that formed the BNG, Mr. Villares. You, therefore, as a militant, were in agreement with the law that tells me not to apply; that, at least, is a maximum contradiction. What do you want? What do we do with the law or what do we do with it? Have no doubt: if the pact is to comply with the Law of Mining in Galicia, you have my word that we will comply with the Law of Mining in Galicia, 100 percent. I have no commitment but to comply with the laws. Should the company make an effort? Of course. We've already opened three files, but not for the copper, Mr. Villares, but for the arids, and, if necessary, we'll open more, and, if necessary, we'll continue to fine it, I have no doubt. Galicia is not for sale, Mr. Villares, it is not for sale. He hasn't been in Ferroatlantic or Corcoesto, nor will he be in Touro. He's never been for sale and he'll never be. [[Applause]] Now, Mr. Vilares, we're going to continue to work in defense of a sustainable mining, which employs 5,000 people in Galicia, Mr. Villares. I don't think they're all predators and that these workers are against the environment; I don't think so, Mr. Villares. You go through certain comarcas and tell them they're predators and they're against the environment, and we'll see what they tell you, Mr. Villares. By the way, you now have a file in your hands: Santiago's debugger. Are you going to facilitate Santiago's debugger or are you going to continue to intoxicate Sar permanently and consistently? Mr. Villares, these are specific issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u51	In the debugger we have an agreement with the state: 60% finance the central administration and half the board and the Town Hall. We had a deal, we were going to start the debugger and stop the sanitation of the Sar River. Will you continue to destroy the Sar River or will you start the Santiago Debugger?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u52	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u53	Mr. Villares, these are concrete things. We make debuggers, we improve the waters in Galicia, we improve the captures and billing of the shellfish in Galicia, we comply with the Mining Law. Mr. Villares, they are incapable of even managing a responsibility that is Santiago's debugger. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u54	Thank you. We're still on the agenda. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the certification, granting of aid and transfer of the neighbouring mountains in a grave state of abandonment to all those communities of neighbouring mountains in common which are in compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular as regards the approval of their instruments of management or forest management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u55	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u56	To formulate the proposal, Mr. González Vázquez has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Wait a minute, that there's a little order, quieter, that this is calmer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I, before starting my exhibition on the communities of neighboring mountains in common, I mean and I want to tell Mr. Villares that there are children and children who do not want to be born because of our politics, this parliamentary group, is a moral lowness that disqualifies themselves. There's only a few things left for me to hear here so bad, huh? [[Applause]] Today the People's Parliamentary Group comes to talk about the communities of neighboring mountains in common, and, as I shall argue, we will bring an initiative that goes in defense of the neighboring mountains, which respects their neighbouring and communal property and which aims to help those communities be the main protagonists of the goal that we must all achieve a living, dynamic, multifunctional and sustainable mountain and of course, ladies and gentlemen, that it is profitable for these communities and for the whole of the Greek citizenship. Look, what do we ask for, because sometimes we talk about LNP and we don't know exactly where we are. We ask you to certify by the Council of Galicia that mountain communities are correctly fulfilling their obligations. And this, as I'll argue later, is because there are many who fail to meet those obligations. And, once certified, what we ask is that priority be given to those who are fulfilling their obligations, essentially in the management of their mountains, in the subsidies that are granted to mountain communities; that they do not make themselves pale with all the same, but rather that priority be given to those who are working well and managing their mountains well. And in addition, we also ask that these well-managed mountain communities be the recipients of the neighboring mountains, which you say we want to destroy and deliver to companies. What we ask is that on the mountains in severe state of abandonment these well-managed mountain communities have preference for their management. Look, as you all know, there is currently a study committee set up in Parliament to address the problem of forest fires in Galicia. In that commission, and in spite of the attempts by some group to load the work, the truth is that the quality and plurality of the visitors — and they were 62, and if any of you, in the replica shift, will say that they didn't come who had to come, I want to remind you that in many of their talks they are going the same peers — and 47 reports allow us — and I can say so — that we will have conclusions and recommendations that will be up to the seriousness of the problem to be solved. And before that, Mr. Leicega mentioned those hundred measures he proposed; it was better than he had proposed them in the press and not in the press without more. I here would ask that we all really think about the Greek society, in the search for those country agreements to try to solve the serious problem, that firecracker. Let's leave ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, of parallel newspapers or of the media, and do our work in a serious and rigorous way, as we are doing within the presentation. Look, one of the important issues -- and it's about putting into context the theme of mountain communities -- that was discussed in that commission is the structure of the property of our rural and our mountain. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a complicated question. We have three types of mountains or we can talk about three types of mountains: mountains of public ownership, neighboring mountains in common hand and private mountains. As for the public, we have 2 million acres of mountains in Galicia. As for the crowd, do you know what percentage we're talking about? Less than 3%. Most of the mountain in our country is private, 1,975,000 hectares. That is, in Galicia we have ten times less public than in the rest of Spain's autonomous communities. In Galicia we have a lot below the European Community average, which is around 50%. Do you know what European Community country has such a low percentage of the public? Portugal. Maybe that's where some of the problems come from. Within the private mountain we have two thirds of private mountain. And by the way, many of you have this private mountain -- now we'll talk about it -- because two out of three Greeks own the mountains, according to the data they give. And a third of the private mountain belongs to mountain communities, 660,000 hectares; we're talking about an important group. In the private mountain, which are not communities, we have more than 11 million plots. Three out of ten rustic plots in Spain are Welsh. The average property of these mountains is not as high as 2500 square meters. Each of these owners has 1.7 hectares and needs seven plots to complete that property. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 1,672,000 rustic holders in Galicia. This is a huge problem. We're talking about an absolutely tremendous puzzle and fragmentation. We don't know who owns those mountains. So, there are studies, those mentioned in the Commission, which talk about, about, two out of every three Greeks have mountains. Either one of us might be in this problem. In the face of that dispersal, in the face of that fragmentation, and in the face of that management difficulty, we have -- and that's why we say that the mountain communities have to be protagonists -- 3,069 mountain communities, which cover 660,000 hectares, that is 33% of the Galician forest area, with an average area of each of their 208 hectares. Therefore, the mountain communities — and we defend them and support them, as we will see on this initiative — are the great owners of Greece, and, in addition, their mountains have enough size to guarantee profitability. Besides, they're well located, we know where they are. Take note of the importance of mountain communities, which have their own regulations, Law 13/1989, which says that the neighboring mountains belong to the neighbours with open houses and habitual residence in the place where they are located. And Article 3 determines the characteristics — which have not been touched by the People's Party — are there: inalienability, i.e. they cannot be sold; unprescriptibility, i.e. one cannot appropriate any of them by prescription; indivisibility, they cannot be divided; and inembracing. Those notes, ladies and gentlemen, guarantee, without any doubt, the neighbourly property and communal property of these mountains. You can't demagogy about this, there's no legal doubt about it. The law says it's a private and collective property. And it's private precisely because of the complaints from the communities, which in the 1970s and 1980s fought against the municipalization of the neighboring mountains. Do you know who was behind those claims? Nationalist movements. Why do you ask for public property now? [[Murmurs.]] Well, made this analysis and taken into account what mountain communities are, we're going to talk about their management. In the Commission's opinion, a report was requested to know exactly how the mountain communities were being managed. Look, out of the 3,000 communities we have 800 that don't have a rector or have never met their legal obligations. I mean, one fourth of the mountain communities don't exist or they don't do any management. Of the others, there are 1.245 who are up to date in their compliance, i.e., one third, and the rest, although they have statutes and reorientation, they don't normally meet all of their obligations. Finally, there are two thirds of the 3,000 mountain communities that either do not manage or do not fully comply with their legal obligations. There are 500 mountain communities, of the 3,000 -- that is, 17% -- that have an instrument of management, that's what really marks that they're working on the mountain. It's 160,000 acres of 660,000. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, even though we defend the mountain communities, it is true that there is a management problem. And that's where we have to ink. At both the first and the point, according to what we ask, the mountain communities are classified precisely because of their management capacity, which is given priority in grants. And at the third point we ask that they be the main recipients of the assignment of the mountains in a severe state of abandonment. And I'm going to stop at this point, because here we talked a lot about predation and what we wanted to keep with those mountains. Look, what do we do when a neighboring mountain is totally abandoned? What do we do if there's no mountain community? We leave it there because we respect the mountain communities? What the People's Party does this year, through Law 9/2017, is to propose that in those cases — and after asking the mountain community, if there exists, to approve its management instrument — the Land Bank be given in marriage so that, in turn, the Land Bank can give it to third parties. That assignment isn't a gift, because it's transfer with consideration, it's like we're doing a lease. And if there is no mountain community, counter-predation goes to a fund for the promotion and support of the neighboring mountains, and it establishes a 50-year term of assignment. From this position that we maintain here in support of the figure of the mountain communities, we understand that what we need to do is that the mountain communities that fulfill their obligations and are properly managing those mountains are the priority recipients of this assignment. So that's the third point in our LNP, and it's a supported initiative. Because here we have spoken — the amendment to the Block, which we will then comment on — about what we are talking about in the sector. This is where we talked to the sector, and the sector is exactly what we've been asked to do. There are mountain communities today that have employees, forest engineers, who are doing the sorting in a very proper and proper way of their mountains. And these are the mountain communities that we want them to be the point of launch to support everyone else and so that ultimately — and I finish already — the communities of neighboring mountains in common hand, in their current configuration and respecting, of course, their configuration and their forest management, they can achieve a living and dynamic mountain, a sustainable mountain, a multifunctional mountain and, in addition, that it is profitable not only for those mountain communities but also for the whole of civil society in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. González Vázquez. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. When I learned how to live, everything worked out with godfather, everything worked out with props. The bites were the soul of business and politics. And we scream "freedom" and sing forcing freedom and bordering censorship, bite. I never thought fifty years later it would again be necessary to invoke it again, and much less in this house. Because almost nothing has changed: bites, big-scale tips, illegal financing, corruption, the broken system. Well, claiming open windows in the fresh air that clear the pure fedor, claim freedom of thought, freedom of the press, freedom of expression, freedom of expression, freedom of error, freedom against fear and deception, read-ber-de-de! [[Applause]] And, now, to contrast data from the Greek mountain with the State mountains taking the neighbouring mountain as private is to fake reality. That public ownership can only be given in institutions, state, autonomy and municipalities, it's not to understand that between the public and the private is the neighbour, more public than private though they refuse to legally recognize that way of brotherly property so unique and so ours. The agreed mountain is of public responsibility and does not respond. As is well stated in the exposition of his PNL, in article 2 of Law 13/1989 it is signed that these are indivisible and unobstructed goods. It's also marked in its exhibition by the 3,069 communities, etc. But the fact that they don't give us is the number of mountain communities that are co-ordinated or agreed upon, and that they lack management tools, for the abandonment of the Galician Union of its obligations. But our question is, what to do with the consortiad and agreed mountains that are in a frank recession because of these conventions? Because, after the wave of fires in October, in the mountains managed by the communal neighborhood, the burnt wood was removed in time and at reasonable prices. We were managed by the forest administration, the burning wood has been untied for months, depreciating its economic value from day to day. This fact shows the ineffectiveness of forest administration management. And the same director general recognized in commission that the administration was slow in management, full of bureaucracy, and I would add that left and ineffective. Let's add to this the obligation to invest at most in four years all the revenues received by the burnt wood. This in practice comes to suggest that many neighboring mountains, at the end of the four years, will be without budget for the maintenance of new plantations: peeling, pruning, clearing... all of this leads to a perverse cycle of fire, planting, abandonment, fire, every ten years or so. With the money obtained from the burned wood it should be allowed to allow the neighboring mountains in common hand affected by the fires to develop an investment plan to "x" years to ensure the sustainability of the recovery of the burned mountain. You, the PP, have changed through the back door — as you like to do — without social debate or parliamentary debate, articles 27 and 28 of the Law of Neighboring Mountains to take us to this situation that presents us, and so you can seize them and hand them over for fifty years to your favorite protected and object of worship: private companies. All this with the act of contrition with acts of omnipotent myself shown in the exhibition to try to convince us that they are with the neighboring mountains in common hand. You're lying! Before that, their continued policies have led us to the state of grave abandonment of vast areas of the Italian countryside, depopulation and lack of horizons for the cultivation and to the mountain as it is not giving the future to the speculation of the refrigerator. They place on the same plane a transitional situation, the lack of communal neighborhood that wants to take charge of the mountain, with a declared neighboring mountain in a state of abandonment. They could also and could be declared in a state of abandonment when, for technical reasons, they do not allow or limit the forest use of the mountain in whole or in part. Can you define us "multifunctionality"? It is true that today there are neighbors in common hands who, because of lack of population or because of aging, do not count together. It is also true that there are many neighbors who may be in a state of severe abandonment. And even we agree that these mountains have to be given an alternative to management, but alternatives have to preserve the existence of the neighboring mountain as a title of communal neighborhood. In the first cases, the careful management of the neighboring mountain must be done by the Conseileria do Medio Rural or the surrounding communities of neighboring mountains or man-communities. And it will have to be a transitional situation until there are again people in the place, village or parish who want to manage their neighboring mountain. The costs of this prudential management must be compensated by an agreement which will have to be signed at the time when it elects the governing board from that neighbouring mountain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u61	Just a moment, Mr. President. In the second case, before declaring a mass neighbour in a state of grave abandonment, the affected mountain community must have an audience to know the causes and the possibility of correcting them by providing him with technical and economic means. Management of these mountains must be shared between the Council and the community. The management of these joint neighbouring mountains must have as priority the elimination of the causes that led him to be declared a serious abandonment vehicle. You, the Administration, should comply with your obligations, agreed or consortiumed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u63	...before bringing these measures to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u64	Thank you very much. You have the floor, by the Galician Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u65	Good morning, President. Good morning, Members, Members and Visitors. Well, Mr spokesperson for the People's Party, don't worry that these hundred measures that we are presenting in the press will also arrive, as it cannot be otherwise, to the Commission to debate and to see if there's really a willingness to bring forward a consensual forest plan and a lot of other measures. We will then speak of the Greek mountain in this proposal which presents to us the party condemned for corruption in the Gürtel judgment, and in particular of the collective private property mountains, which involve — as I have said — 3,000 communities, covering those 630,000 hectares, with dozens of thousands of neighbors involved or affected. In addition to the quantitative aspect, it's the valuation of finding a kind of large-scale property that can produce a profitable use of the surface and preserving the environment. With these figures, we have, of course, an idea of the transcendence that the neighboring mountains have in common for our community, once a reserve and very important implementation of rural communities. This initiative describes a current part of the reality of Germanic property. But, of course, it's very encouraging when we can only talk about a third of mountain communities that meet their obligations; in particular, those who have a headmaster and tools for forest management or management. But at the same time, it is quite clear that it leaves two thirds of the communities in the wrong place as regards forest management or management, with which, in short, the picture is demolition for this type of figure, for this area so important in the Greek world. We appreciate the initiative, which aims to reward the mountain communities that fulfill the legal obligations — together with reorientation and approval of their forest management or management instruments — as an element of good functioning, as a proof that they work well. But we understand that the great problem that we must face remains outside the initiative, that it is only to drive and empower those two-thirds of communities that are well reflected in their initiative and that are working badly, or that — as you say — there is nothing known about them. We are prepared to support the initiative, but we also, for the same reason, amend the resolution with a view to implementing the measures, directing the look at institutional action towards the problem of 2,000 communities that do not work properly, or which simply do not exist. And we understand that this is a fundamental question of turning the mountain into a socio-economic asset. What is the real situation of our neighborly estate mountains? There are these two-thirds of communities that are not taking forward their duties or that are simply missing. We have no doubt that the aging of the rural population, the disintegration and abandonment of the lands suffering from the places is behind this demolition situation for the Greek countryside and for the community. In view of this picture, it seems good to encourage those who meet, we agree. But what's going to happen to 26% of the communities on which you don't know anything? Have you thought about the government doing anything with them? What about the 40 percent of neighborhood communities that don't meet all of their obligations even if they have a head office? These communities must be the preferred object of government action if we want to walk towards a multifunctional and cost-effective mountain. We must be able to adapt the reality of neighboring mountains to the situation of depopulation, aging and abandonment. In short, this is an initiative that finds that for years the Government has not done its duty to the communities of neighboring mountains, which is added to its worst cautious management, as the organization of neighbouring mountains, of more than 100,000 hectares controlled by the Union through agreements and consortia. For these reasons, we propose the amendment to add in the sense of pushing and empowering these two-thirds of communities, which are 2,000 in particular or 2,045, to put them into operation, dynamize them and move them forward and thus seeing the problem globally, not leaving them aside, as it gives us the impression that you are doing on this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Quiroga. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr. González, from En Marea we are not going to support this initiative, for many reasons, which I do not know if I will have time to name now, but which is summarized very well in a single sentence, which is the privatization of the Greek mountains in favour of private companies. In the exhibition of motifs you started by talking about the structure of the Greek forest property. We have the public, we have the neighboring mountains in common as private property and we have the private ones. The joint neighbouring mountains are ancient collective headlines. Its title corresponds to the entire communal neighborhood, regardless of whether they form it at a given time, understood by the neighborhood not as an administrative entity of this one, but as a social group. Neighboring mountains in common are headlines without quota allocation, and since then, you said here, you cannot inherit or transmit. But, apart from this, apart from that they are properties of a Germanic character, indivisible, unobstructed, etc., they are another way of possessing that we have the Greeks and the Greeks, and here we cannot compare ourselves with the rest of the Spanish state, as you want to do here. Its management, administration and value for the neighboring mountains in common cannot be carried forward individually, as you wish; it must be taken democratically at the general assemblies of the community of neighbors in common. Therefore, the neighboring mountains are neither public nor private; they are collective; they are neighbors and community. However, in all legislations, both state and autonomous, and the Mountain Law here in 1989, the neighboring mountains in common are attached to the mountains of public ownership. Secondly, communities of neighbouring mountains, owners and private owners have to justify in the future that have plans to manage these mountains or, in their fault, to adhere to the forestry models that you yourself have designed from the Government of Galicia. The Administration must facilitate the management of this mountain so that neighbouring communities and owners can access these public aid. These also have to justify the sorting or accession of wildlife models to apply for these cut-off permissions. These circumstances have made the sector, of what you have so much talked about here, to be impatient for the call for mountain sorting aid, which has not come out since the final end of the last RDP; they did not leave either in 2014 or in 2015 or in 2016 or in 2017, four years without call for management plans. Third, until the entry into force of the Law of Mountains, the Conseilaria do Medio Rural had the competence of carrying out the disincentives of the neighboring mountains. The Galician Union has failed to fulfil this obligation for a number of reasons. First of all, he's almost done none. Second, he tried to fix this fulfilment of his own administration by eliminating this competition of his by transferring his obligation to the mountain communities itself, by violating his own law. And this decree also says that, with the forced reinvestment of the neighboring mountains in common, it is mandatory, as we say, of the Galician Union, so the mountain communities cannot be forced to do. All of this is summed up in that the Rural Council itself prevents the ability to decide about the communal neighbourhood in its lands. Fourth reason. After the wave of fires that devastated the Greek mountains in 2017, there are many mountain communities that are showing their concern about the possible abandonment in which their mountains may remain, for, after approving Galicia's own Board in the Budget Accompanying Law, regulations that allow them to extinguish the agreements signed with the Administration in those neighboring mountains that have less than 30% of the tree area, suppress it in five years, — that this has it, uh!— in the transitional provision fourth of this law says, "Montes con consortia or concords with the Administration. The consortia or rest arrangements with the existing forest administration in the mountains at the time of the entry into force of this law shall be subject to cancellation of office within a period ending December 31st of 2021." What's this going to do? This will allow the own proprietary communities to find themselves with a mountain totally torn apart by the capitalless blades to cope with their own recovery. This isn't random fruit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u69	This is a People's Party maneuver to give these mountain communities directly to private businesses, no less. So we've already told them -- I don't know if the amendments of the comrades will be approved, we don't present it anymore -- with the People's Party at Marea with the communities of neighboring mountains in common, with us, it doesn't contain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What do you want me to tell you, Mr. Rodríguez? It's the usual one. If the People's Party presents it, even if it's talked to the sector, agreed on many of its points and trying to benefit people who are managing well, just because the People's Party presents it, it can no longer be approved, because you haven't given any argument here about... I'm telling you about the resolution text. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see: what's wrong with those mountain communities that we all visit that make an impeccable treatment of their mountain, that have forest engineers -- seven working with them -- and that they tell us that these people could be sorting out many other mountains, they can pick up and give priority to the mountains that are totally abandoned? What's wrong with this proposal? We can talk about the others and we can have other initiatives; you bring them — I don't say no — and we can vote for them. We are making a statement of principles, which is that for us mountain communities must have a leading role in the development of the mountain model we want, always respecting their current configuration. Look, I'd ask you, from a legal point of view -- I'm not a lawyer, but I understand more or less things, I'm sure you too -- what is that property that you say is not public or private, Mr. Rodríguez? What is it? What is it? But you already say so, article 3 of Law 13/1989. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That he doesn't have stories on this subject, we've talked about it many times. There's no chance of overthrowing that property, that collective and private property. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And by the way, it's private because there was an attempt to municipalize the neighboring mountains and there was a defense in which nationalist movements were to defend the mountain communities, and we're also in that defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u72	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u73	Mr. Rivas, I have listened to him very carefully and you know that I have a lot of respect for him, even though that speech he made at first I think he would not go with me, because I defend freedom, just like you, without any doubt at all; I hope you never put it in doubt. Look, when he talks about the other mountain communities — and we're not talking about them — the only thing we say — and that's why my exposure was in that sense — is that we have a very serious problem on the mountain; we have a situation of abandonment — which is going to be picked up in the ditame — that we have to try to reverse among everyone, and we need them all. And what we're saying is, let's start with the ones that are well managed, so that they drag the other mountain communities. Because I want to ask you a question, but clearly: there are eight hundred mountain communities that have no municipalities; Mr. Rivas, what do we do with them? But explain to me what we do with those eight hundred. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If the mountain is totally abandoned because there are no municipalities that can handle it, what do we do with them? And we propose to give them up, and not to companies, primarily to mountain communities that are well managed. This is our LNP. What's wrong? Which, as it is of the People's Party, does not serve and if you have to agree to say no. Look, as far as amendments are concerned, we're obviously not going to accept that of the Galician Nationalist Block, for the reasons I've just argued. By the way, we also talked to the sector and the sector was what he told us: that these mountain communities should be prioritized. As for the spokesman for the Socialist Party, I want to say that I read carefully the measures and paint well, to see if we reach consensus in that area; man, we can specify some, but they paint well. I criticized how to introduce them, because we talked about that within the commission and the presentation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u75	...that's where we had to do the job, and there's a very serious job being done by the People's Party; that drafting of the measures is a serious job too; we're going to take it to the committee's office and see if we can dictate it with the greatest possible consensus. As for the amendment of the PSOE, we will accept it, although I would like to point out to you that this work is already being done by both the ordination plans grants and also by the obligation imposed by 2014 to reinvest some of the income in mountain management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u77	But, of course, we agree that we must continue in that drive. So we're going to accept your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u78	Thank you very much. We also inform you — I think it has already been communicated to the authors of the questions — of the approval of three questions this afternoon: number 30993 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, signed by Mr Sánchez García; number 31312, signed by Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three more; and number 31322, signed by Jose Luís Bará Torres and five more, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, which will be settled in the next plenary session. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the establishment by the Government of Greece of an annual compensation fund to incorporate into the budgets of the universities of Greece the income that ceases to receive by freezing the rates of registration of degrees and the lower prices of qualified masters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u79	This non-legislation proposal was presented with an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u80	You have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u81	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. You may recall that on 25 April at the plenary session of that day our spokesman, Mr. Fernández Leicega, made an intervention which marked the importance of teachers both for obtaining employment after studies and for the importance of the knowledge society, and marked the lack of politics followed by the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo around this important aspect, in addition to the necessary democratization of access to these levels of study. And in that session, in the reply given by the president of the board to the question of our spokesman, we had a good example of what is the management of the public followed by this government and this president. I have to say that I considered it frivolous, of course with a touch of clear irresponsibility. Because in this plenary session, and not to mention almost previously with universities — this aspect which was confirmed by the Secretary of Universities, that is, without consensual with universities this measure, without talking to them — simply Mr Feijóo announced that he — he — had decided to lower the public prices of the qualified masters from the next course and put them with similar or equal prices to those of the grades. He decided, he announced it here, and the universities learned about it by the press and television news. He wanted a press headline, he had a press headline, to reach the criticisms of our spokesperson. This is the popular good management of the People's Party: advertising and propaganda. But it is true that, for once, we agree with a measure of the People's Party. The lowering of master's qualifications rates seems absolutely timely; that's more, it seems scarce to us. From our point of view, I believe that the prices of all masters should be lowered and, in addition, to mark aid and scholarships for these masters who would expand the possibility of democratization of these courses, of postgraduate courses. But I want to point out here — and this is the object of this non-legislative proposal — that all the policies pursued by the People's Party, chaired by Mr Feijóo, which want to alleviate to some extent the inequalities and the lack of equity that we have after the crisis and after many of the policies of the People's Party, these aids that are trying to alleviate these inequalities, are always done, always at the expense of universities, never at the expense of the Galician Union; I mean this savings of families will not pay it to the Galician Union, as it would be normal, but will be paid by universities, because one aspect of income, from the universities has always been the income for public prices, for very varied rates, but among them mainly for education fees. But for more than seven years, academic rates have been frozen. Master's degrees are now being reassessed, and this is not compensated for by universities. We did a calculation of what I could suppose for universities, on the one hand, the freezing of fees, all the fees, for seven years, and the addition to this discount. Given that they perceive around 71 million euros, more or less, per year by academic rate, we consider that in one year, due to the freezing of fees and this new discount, universities are losing a minimum of 30 million per year, 30 million per year that are not compensated at universities; some universities that need these incomes, because they have been many years of very important cuts maintained by the Government of the People's Party, in fact — and I summarize the most important of that income drop — that in 2018 universities still have 7% less resources than in 2009, 7% less. The PP government promised in 2011 to reach 1% of GDP, and this has not been accomplished at all; that's more, this percentage has been lowered on GDP than we had in the so-called Bipartite. At that time it was 0.85% and now it's around 0.65% or 0.66% spending in universities on GDP -- it's down. Look, there's already a demolition. In absolute terms, the level of income of universities in 2018 is equal to the level of income in 2008. We've lost ten years, ten years in college income, we've been ten years behind, and this is not going to be corrected by the new funding plan, because according to the same numbers as the People's Party, we're not going to have the 2009 level by 2020. Some problems are reported, on the other hand, by the principals in public media, so protests from all known and we can return to them. That's right, while universities don't have the resources to maintain quality levels, Junta is going to spend over 17 million on the City of Culture building a building for universities that universities don't need; that's, it's a technique of saving, austerity and good management that's absolutely impossible to understand, because that building isn't necessary for universities, and it's definitely going to be much more than 17 million. I already know that there is a share in the Financing Plan, 44.1 in the part of funding for results, intended to compensate for the amounts derived from salaries, for example pay on state or autonomous wages, those known as sexians, for example. But this game doesn't even make up for a year's obligations. In 2017 there were 24.7 million, and they weren't enough. Money has been added to this game. This year 2018 is 26 million for everything: the five years, the sex years, the autonomous wages, the reductions of other types of rates. With this game you cannot be compensated. So to us what seems to us to be absolutely fair and what we propose in this non-legislative proposal is that all universities and the Union meet together, that in a covenant way it is decided that it contains the universities annually by freezing fees and now by lowering the price of qualified masters, if they agree on these accounts, if they establish an annual compensatory fund apart from the funding plan, because in the financing plan there is no money to compensate this — of course, in addition, they are paying ahead of all universities — and therefore an annual compensatory plan, decided between all parties, to enter every year the losses derived from the freeze of fees and the reduction of masters. It seems to us that it is absolutely fair, because — I insist — we cannot expect savings, that we agree that they have to have families — and much more than they have to have — to go against university incomes and not the cost of the Galician Union, which is really the one with the competition. Since we believe that this is an absolutely fair measure and, in addition to fair, necessary, we hope that all groups in the House will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Go ahead and we agree with the Socialist Party's proposal. In fact, there will be about 15 days since the BNG, so we also asked the Secretary General of Universities in Commission 4a in a question that we put to the thread precisely that announcement was made by the President of the Galician Council, as Mrs Burgo had pointed out, at the plenary session on 25 April. At that time we told the Secretary-General of Universities that the House, which Parliament cannot be used as a press room, cannot come to launch grandoloque announcements to this House without the necessary institutional regard precisely to universities, which are very important institutions in our country, and that therefore it was necessary for any kind of change that would be introduced by the Government of Greece not only to be first announced or transmitted to universities, but should have been negotiated and submitted to the necessary dialogue with representatives too, with representatives of these universities. And we also moved, in that sense, from the BNG, the need that any kind of reduction in public prices, in popularly known as university fees, now that it has to do with qualified or professional teachers, had to be compensated. University income pathways are essentially the budget transfers that the Galician Union makes and also those revenue through tuition prices, and any variation in that income has to be offset by the Government of Galicia. Because we support any initiative that comes to reduce the cost for students, and particularly for families, titles, higher education, but that cannot, as Mrs Burgo said, go to the detriment of her own universities. And more because this cannot be disconnected from the reality in which the public university has been immersed in our country in recent years, that adaptation to the European Higher Education Area, to the implementation of that model or Bologna Plan, which has greatly increased the cost of higher education for students, and in particular for families, and with regard to this issue which the Socialist Party is talking about today, which has to do with these professional masters, these qualified masters, who are obliged to be able to practice professions, because they go from advocacy to engineering or teaching. It's worth studying that kind of titrations to be able to practice these professions and therefore you have to assume, yes or yes, those people, these families the costs they derive and which have greatly increased the total cost of higher education in our country. In that sense, we absolutely agree with what is proposed here, and we want to go a little further; we want to focus on the true. At yesterday's session we were also making progress — and Mrs Burgo also said in her speech — what is the problem with universities, which goes far beyond the compensation for this reduction in income through the rates, which is the urgent need to provide more resources to the public university system itself in our country; Mrs Burgo also pointed out. And I want to bring directly the words of the directors of the three universities, who said, precisely to the thread of that announcement of the reduction in the fees of professional or qualified masters, who were below the minimum necessary to maintain a public quality system. That fallacy that we'd hear again yesterday from the counselor's mouth in this crowd that less if you do more is absolutely a lie—and anyone in your household or family economy well knows—is at the expense of the quality of the service that universities provide, which goes far beyond teaching and which has much to do with the production of knowledge and the transfer of that knowledge to society. That's why we added an amendment, which we hope you will consider, that what is urgent is that we enable greater budgetary resources towards the year 2019 so that universities can shield not only the professional stability of teaching staff, but also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u85	...and with this finished—of that personal researcher who works in absolutely precarious conditions in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u87	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. To begin by saying that since the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we will support this initiative of the Socialist Group, and we will support it because it affects one of the fundamental pillars of public education such as university and its funding, which is always scarce; teaching that has only reduced its resources since the beginning of the crisis. It is that university education, public education, was never one of the priorities of the People's Party — quite the contrary — except for profit or private business. How do you call, if not, the glossy titles of Mrs. Cifuentes or Mr. Married? The patrimonialization of institutions, corruption, the clear mark of the People's Party. I'm sure the Cifuentes or the Married had little concern about the price of university fees, they had enough to go and get fraudulent titles with which to fill their curricula. Competitiveness, individualism calls it. However, every year, on these dates, thousands of families in this country have to perform calculations — and difficult and painful calculations — to see how they will cope with the payment of the university fees of their children, who, as you know, are on average in the 832 euros in this country. And it's not the only calculation, because in a country like this, with high population dispersal and severe transport problems, families have to add transportation, housing, maintenance costs, of course books, material and a long et cetera that ends up bulking up the bill for the Greek families. From En Marea we believe in a truly universal and free teaching that allows all the girls and boys who wish to do so to be able to pursue university studies. That's how it happens, of course, in many of the countries around us, and that's the model we want to look at. In this sense, the freezing of university fees and the lowering of qualified master's degrees, although positive, seem to us to be clearly insufficient measures. Despite its freezing, the bill faced annually by families and students continues to be very high, too hard. Despite its freezing, the right to university education as a universal right remains far away. Even though the prices of qualified masters are halved, i.e. those necessary for the performance of some profession, their content will remain high and leave them away from the bill they pay students, for example, in France or Germany. And why do you refer to the prices of country titles around us? On the one hand, because, as I said, the free education offered in these countries is the model we want to look at. But secondly, because our rates are higher than those of other universities outside, with which we have joint or double titles, which makes it very difficult to pick up foreign students, indicator of internationalization, which, on the other hand, has a very important weight in funding that universities receive. And so we're in the vicious circle, in the fish that bites the tail continually. If we're not able to pick up foreign students, we don't score well in internationalization, and then we don't get the resources we need. It lowers internationalization and, therefore, low resources; and, at lower rates, also less resources for universities. Because we must not forget the consequences of freezing fees on the own resources of universities, which, as I said before, have been greatly reduced since the beginning of the economic crisis. So much so that, according to the study conducted by the university observatory, those who finance the university — comparison with autonomous communities in Spain, Europe and OECD, 2009-2015 — Galicia was the fourth community across the state, the fourth one who saw further reduce non-financial university funding, losing almost 22.5% of it. If we look at the drop in revenues for public prices, it turns out that Galicia was the one that lost the most, reaching a decrease of 15.7%; lows that need to compensate. It's not to be received that universities support the popular party's cuts year after year. If, as they don't get tired of repeating from the Government, the time for recovery has come, the least is that the time is actually coming for the recovery of resources from the public universities in Greece, and for all the students. That's why, and as I said, we'll vote yes, because the Greek universities need more resources, more and better resources. The future of all is at stake. And that's why we expect you to be able to go ahead with this initiative. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Just for ten seconds, Mrs. Chao Pérez, I'm surprised that, speaking of those things for which she started, she hadn't told us about the use of her colleague Erregón's public university in Malaga, or the great consultants of her party at the Complutense in Madrid. That's the use of the university. But I don't want to waste your time on this, because, as we heard from your group yesterday, the university is worried about what they're worried about. [[Applause]] Mrs Burgo, I really feel that, with all the good that was done yesterday -- and I have to say it publicly here -- today -- two days ago followed with measurement and objectivity, of course, it was a lot -- something had to be compensated for. Because, Mrs. Burgo, the president is about to preside. To make decrees is the Government. And that's why we have a president that the Greeks support, because he presides and decides things. And communicate them in this House, as it must be. Because I say it's better to tell the parliamentarians than elsewhere. Anyway, thanks for what he said was that he lowered the rates, because if not, what we'd have to hear here! It's fun to see the whole left asking to raise the university rates of ordinary people and population. The whole left is asking for a raise in rates. Well, look, this PNL you're presenting has no reason to be because there's no need. There's no need for this because it's already implemented, budgeted, and signed agreements with the Greek university system. They're already signed. The compensation, in terms of tuition, for possible variations in the public prices of university studies is included in the budgets of the Union. And it is even regulated the procedure of how it is done for all official titles. So, if the President of the Union wants, he can and, in addition, budget, pay that tax discount to the Government, not the citizens pay it. Those who save money are citizens, what they pay is the Government through budgets, because they have, as you well said, a specific match for that. But, of course, perhaps it doesn't like that since Feijóo arrived to the Government, Galicia is more accessible to people to study, to the difference where he governs the left, which rises at those prices. And it compensates the Government through these conventions, specifically compensates it. That's why Galicia is the community with the cheapest university fees and wants to be also now the community with cheaper fees for people who pay the fees also in the enabling titles, also for those people of engineering or architecture, to have professional skills, and also for those of lawyers or teachers, all those people who need that title, who need those enabling titles. What you're proposing is that these 2,100 students, 2,100 families, will see universities compensated with these discounts through a specific match; and with funds from the Galician Union and not directly from the universities. And they know it perfectly, because it even determined the match 444.1. But, look, the ninth clause of the corresponding agreements signed thus explains, and I'm going to read it literally so that we have no doubt: "In accordance with the current legislation, the Council of Galicia must grant to each of the universities of the Greek university system the amounts resulting from the increases and revenue from the application of the decrees"—which the Government approves— "which annually set the public prices corresponding to the studies leading to the obtaining of official university titles"—also these qualified persons— "of validity throughout the national territory". And he says, "For these purposes, before 31 May of each year of the duration of the General Plan of Universities, universities will send to the department responsible for universities, duly certified, the data corresponding to the number of credits actually formalised, according to the classification referred to in the annual price decree. Similarly, the Galician board, in compliance with the current state legislation, will also compensate the universities of the Greek university system for the costs of registration not covered by the Ministry." I think it's obvious that we're doing this, there are agreements signed for funding with the three universities, and it's going to continue to complement them. And — as you well said — when it was needed, it extended the budgets of this game to the Galician Union. Therefore, the Galician Union is covering this reduction of citizens' fees in budget splits. And I know you don't like it, but that's why people are happy to pay less fees and that it's the Galician Union that compensates universities through these conventions; and with an agreement, with a 2016-2020 funding agreement, which guaranteed 18% increase, and which guarantees in writing that every year the Greek universities increase their budgets between 3% and 4%. These are objective data, take the budgets since they were signed. I know you don't like these things. Yesterday they were talking about freedom as well as listening to what they don't like. We all have freedom, and these are objective data, agreements signed with universities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u90	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I want to thank Mrs. Chao and Mrs. Rodil for supporting this initiative, which they understand. And I agree with everything they said in their interventions, because it is the reality that we also perceive and that we are sensing not only ourselves but the whole society. I mean, first of all, if we support and accept the amendment of the BNG. It's not introduced here because we wanted to focus on this situation right now, and the rest is very quiet because you have for a later debate. But, of course, we're absolutely in agreement. Mr. Fernández Prado, I want to thank you, first of all, for that congratulations you made to me. I'm very sorry I can't give you back and I can also congratulate you on an intervention. I haven't found your intervention yet, I can congratulate you, but this one, of course, won't be. [[Applause]] This one, of course, won't be, because you're here what you've shown to be clear -- because you know what we're talking about -- what we've said. We are not, and you know, asking for higher rates, but compensation from the university. But I do have to thank him for something he said: at last we find someone from the People's Party who recognizes a reality, who recognizes that Mr. Feijó presides authoritatively, presides without consensus, governs without talking to anyone. Because Mr. Fernández Prado said that the president is the president, who is here to decide, and he says what he wants, he says what he decides, so. And that has a name: authoritarianism. Yes, you did. [[Applause]] At last someone recognizes him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The president decides even though he always talks about consensus, he says that with universities we reach all the conventions. But it decides public prices without talking to universities, which I think is a clear evidence of consensus and of the fact of universities. You put yourself there and tell all the universities: you're going to charge that, because I want to. Ah!, a democratic president where there are them. I can congratulate you on that clarity of thought that you have. Look, Mr. Fernández Prado, I imagine you know that this game, 441, is not enough to make up for. And what we're not prepared for is that there's -- as we've already done -- transfers from funding to universities, from match to match. I mean, you make up for the losses in one game with another game that you had to perceive at universities. You know what that is? A circle where universities always lose. And that's why we're asking for external, external and even more compensation, not that it comes out of other funding, and it looks like we're paying what we have to pay for. But to pay those contributions we are no longer contributing to other payments. We already know the traps. So what we want is a different compensation fund to compensate for this downturn and freezing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u93	It's over, Mr. President. I tell you, all calculations, Mr. Fernández Prado, affect what is at least 30 million euros, an important amount. But you see the importance that you give to the universities that the president decides for them. I'd miss it more! That's why he's the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the offer of the public housing park
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u95	This proposal was presented with an amendment by the En Marea Parliamentary Group and another by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u96	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u97	Thank you, President, and good morning to all and to all. It is understood by a definitive qualification of a protected housing the administrative act so that the legal regime is determined, on lease, on sale or on promotion for the proper use of the said housing. The final qualification will take place once the works have been completed and after the competent public administration of the first occupation licence has been granted. In short, a final qualification is awarded when a housing is completed correctly and is available for delivery to a tenant or buyer. Well, with this clarified, we can already talk about the number of final housing qualifications protected behind autonomic plans in 2017, nine housings. And these would have to be added some more, exactly three, behind the state plan. A total of twelve homes throughout Galicia in 2017. Surprising? Perhaps, perhaps to the opposition if it is; for the Government I have no doubt that it is an end sought and achieved the dismantling of the public housing park. [[Applause]] And I understand that for you, for the Government, it is much more interesting to cover your back with party mates like Mr. Telmo Martín, current mayor of Sanxenxo, who through his company has collected surprises in protected housing. And I tell them they're wrong. On the one hand, Mr. Feijou apologized for his performance, arguing that he had won elections after he knew the opening of his file. As if the votes acquit anyone of their responsibility! And on the other hand, they're wrong when they lower their involvement by considering it a simple partner. [[Applause]] Because, look, Galicia has a big problem or maybe a great virtue, and it's just that neither cities nor people are so big that we don't know who everyone is. It was Mr. Martín Hera to build another what Mr. Lito to the Panorama orchestra. [[Laughter]] But you insist on creating those parallel realities and forget how important it is to think more about people and less about the business of friends who get their vows. Because another year the housing policy is in line with the execution of programs from all the boards, with a running level of 78.1%, which means nearly 17 million have ceased to be executed. But if in 2017 they invested about sixty-two million, in 2016 it was 72 million, so they really lost 27 million investment about the previous year Twenty-seven million euros! How many dwellings could you possibly enable or build with that money? Then I'll tell him: between two hundred and two hundred and fifty. Year after year, therefore, we see how housing policy stagnates, and especially in the offer of the public housing park, both for rent and for property. And the data that is reflected annually on the number of applicants in the Single Register of Housing Applicants, and updated daily — these days not because he disappeared from the web — on 3 May 2018 was 11,801. Most of them, 75%, are rent applicants, and 15% of them have a purchase option. Twenty-seven days after that May 3rd, the number of applicants had increased by one hundred and fifty-six more. An increase that is significant because it coincides with many other factors, such as the rise in rental housing prices in recent months, and especially in the large towns of Galicia. Maybe it's not crazy to think one thing goes with the other. And, as I pointed out earlier, last year 2017, only nine self-catering households were permanently qualified, according to data from the Ministry of Development itself; three more were provided from the funds of the State Plan. Twelve in total, which contrast with the one thousand two hundred that would be needed to cover at least 10% of the current demand. And with the pace of the last five years, it has covered only 1% of the existing annual demand; between state and autonomic housing plans, a total of six hundred and thirty-four dwellings. Do you really believe this government that a policy that can cover only 1% of social demand is a successful policy? We must not forget that access to housing is a right, such as health or education. Does anyone think that the existence of health services that served only 1% of the population would be a sufficient service? Or did one of the more than nineteen thousand children born in 2016 only one hundred and ninety have the right to access public education? I think we can all understand that if there is a demand for public housing in a rental scheme or a public promotion property, in a register also driven by the Institute of Housing and Solo itself, and of it only 1% of the annual demand is achieved, the result of housing policy is of total failure. And, of course, the state housing plan that remains in inheritance did not have much consideration for the Greeks and the Greeks either. In Commission 2 I myself spoke to the director of the Galego Institute of Living and Solo of the "croquet plan", where nothing is taken away and everything is taken advantage of. Mr. Rajoy's State Government has left in possession a four-year plan supported only by the millions who have not exactly implemented the previous plan. One more symptom of the state of induced coma that led to housing policy. And we have already revealed to our own advisor that we do not doubt the plans that have been put in place to contribute to access to housing, we doubt the results, which are what they are. And we believe that if these policies aren't working, as numbers seem to prove, you'll have to analyze why and, no doubt, give an immediate response to housing demand at an affordable price. Even more at a time when the rent prices — as I had pointed out before — are rising and the offer diminishing, especially in the larger villages. I know that here the advisor himself denied this fact by comparing the current data with the year 2007, point of inflection in prices and hence year of high prices. The reality is that the bubble is beginning to fray. And we prefer that you take consciousness and open your eyes to act from prevention, which is never too much. Because, according to INE data, from the fourth quarter of 2014, the average housing price index suffered a continuous rise, with in the first quarter of 2018 a 7.7 point rise for the new housing and 2.4 point for the second-hand housing. Take note because what I'm trying to tell you is that the increase in prices is happening in all communities, is not just about Galicia. In terms of housing and construction, Galicia has this condition — good or bad — to always go at the rear end of the effects and consequences. And in this sense, I think it's an opportunity that should not be wasted: to have that time of reaction to put in place preventive housing policies. They combat the increase in rental prices with a sufficient offer of public promotion housing in rent or property schemes. And allow those who opt in addition to a social rent to choose to buy. They do not deny this right, as has already happened in some of the latest promotions delivered. And from the Socialist Group, we believe that we need special consideration in addition to the most vulnerable family units. In this sense, it must be remembered here that according to data from the EPA, if in 2009 there were nineteen thousand seven hundred households without any kind of entry into Galicia, in 2018 the number of homes increased by thirty-four thousand three hundred. What leads us to make it clear that neither Galicia has been nor is it the best scenario for the most vulnerable groups, nor is the offer of public housing sufficient, knowing that today there are nearly fifteen thousand more homes that cannot pay even bills or rents of any kind. And I suppose the government group has a clear defence strategy in this regard. In fact, he has manifested himself on several occasions, attributing scarce resources to promote public housing to his bet by other measures, such as the reuse of empty dwellings. The truth is that from this plan, that of the empty dwellings, little or nothing is known. And explain: there is no accessible information about the number of dwellings available in each municipality, and that allow to assess the success or failure of the plan. In any case, in some county we have a record that the offer is of very few dwellings, and in many people it remains in zero. In the Barbanza area, which has enthusiastically joined this plan, you can see how after almost two years you have failed to adhere to a single housing plan. The hub of the tourist rental detachs the owners towards that other mode, which is much more attractive to them. These figures, which we see as they are repeated in other regions, are therefore questionable of the scope of the plan, explaining, on the one hand, that the money provided for the rehabilitation of the homes of this programme as an incentive was not carried out; that is perhaps one of the causes that was added to the low execution of the programmes of those I was talking about earlier. And, of course, I suppose, because -- I insist -- there is no official data on it, and those that facilitate it are the ones that can be found in recent press news. We believe that if, in January of this year, an observatory for housing has been launched, less than reflecting these and many other data that allow us in any case to analyze the supply, the needs and the successes and failures of the measures put in place by the council, and so that among all of us we can propose new actions or improvements. Because since the Socialist Party Group we are still surprised at the fact that this observatory is now reduced to a web with scarce statistics and outdated data, many of the year 2011. Totally ineffective! In view of this situation, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia today presents this proposal, which aims to urge the Council of Galicia to "take the necessary measures to reactivate from the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo the offer, both in rent and property, of public park dwellings, and in response to the Single Register of Housing Applicants in the Autonomous Community of Galicia". And on the other hand, that "facilitate in any case the possibility of opting for rent housing with option to purchase in the buildings of new promotion and in the same percentage as found in the Register of Applicants."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u99	Waiting for you to get support from all groups, that's all for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u101	Thank you, President. Good morning. They spent five days since the Supreme Court's ruling on the Telmo Martín, Construction, convicted of charging B for surprises to families, to people who bought official shelters in the Navia district of Vigo. And this is supposed to be a firm condemnation of the sixty-two families worth 1,235,000 euros; they have to return between 10,000 and 30,000 to each of these people. And this sentence also confirms a fine of 3.7 million euros, which is a file — because you tell another story — which was initiated in 2007 by the Housing Council, chaired by Teresa Tables. Five days have passed and Mr. Martín has not yet resigned, and, more importantly, the People's Party has not yet requested his resignation. I hope you will come out here to say something about it, because this is the model, this is the example of the People's Party on housing for public protection; Mr Martín is the example. I'm going to read them a quote: "Errors that in private life are hard to justify, in public life are absolutely unjustifiable," Alberto Núñez Feijóo. So, apply the story. The BNG seems to us to be a serious offense, an insult and a lack of respect for the nearly 12,000 people enrolled in the Joint Registry, to the dozens of thousands who survive in precariousness or unemployment and who can't even dream of a rented home. It seems shocking to us when Abanca is the main owner of housing in the state and Galicia; that bank rescued with more than sixty billion public funds and now speculates with more than 400,000 expropriated housing. It's scandalous when Voitre funds enter the bag and buy thousands of properties the balance to speculate and cash; when tax havens are created here in the Spanish State for the Companies, which are real estate dedicated to renters who don't pay corporate taxes; when there are more than three hundred thousand empty dwellings in Galicia, ninety thousand of them in the cities; and when you failed that bluff of the Union's Empty Housing Program. BNG will support this initiative put forward by the Socialist Group, which puts the focus on a question that we believe is necessary to push, but which is only part of the whole and the serious problem around housing. In fact, we think that we need to promote public promotion housing, that we need to increase public spending on housing, that there is above all to improve budget execution, because in recent years it has been very low. But the real housing policy requires public intervention, State intervention, the participation of the Galician Union in the market and in the sector, in order to break up that plot of interest which currently favours the large owners of housing. And so it's about guaranteeing housing as a basic right of the population, not just a luxury within the reach of a privileged minority. Structural changes are therefore needed. That's why we in our amendments talk about legislative changes, starting with the Housing Act or the Mortgage Law, which must establish measures, for example, of taxation, which penalizes or prevails as the case may be. We also think that the State Housing Plan needs to be modified. And, in this sense, we appeal to the Socialist Group because a few days ago they strongly criticized this plan and now it seems to them to be wonderful because they just gave it green light. They say it was a legacy of Mr. Rajoy, but while they criticized it as a plan that was what he did was to increase the bubble of the rent, making artificially increase prices, now it turns out that they gave him forward. And I don't know if it wouldn't be fairer and more convenient to stop thinking, check it out, modify it even if it was a little late. And finally, we propose a measure that seems absolutely fundamental to us, because the provision of housing for public protection will not solve the problem, which is the creation of a public housing park by mobilizing Sareb's housing for social rent. With measures like these, the problem of access to housing would be radically solved for a large majority of the population. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u102	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u103	Good morning. For, of course, if we have come to talk about housing, we must start by talking about the scandal of the People's Party, of the scandal of Mr. Telmo Martín, mayor of the People's Party in Sanxenxo, who has cheated and charged a price of EUR 1.2 million and will have a sanction confirmed by the Supreme Court of 2.4 million. We're not talking about anything, it's a case of very serious corruption. And if the Galician Union, which has domestic powers, is governed by the People's Party, the People's Party must immediately cease Mr. Telmo Martín, but it will be the example of what the People's Party wants to do with housing: business. And yet above Mr. Feijóo binds his future to the future of Mr. Martín and justifies Mr. Telmo Martín with lies once again, with lies. They say that this was a file initiated by the People's Party, and as Mr. Bara has already said, he began in the bipartisan government, and he gave the sentence, because you lie to wisdom, still lied yesterday to Mrs. Prado. It says textually: "It is also stated in the demand that there was no opening of a probationary period, from which it is deduced that it was therefore unable to intervene in the practice of the test. In addition, the administration did not rule on its application for test performance and was not an undue or unnecessary test. However, the initiation agreement is contained in sheets 1068 et seq. of the administrative record of 1 October 2007". I mean, they lie to protect Mr. Telmo Martín. Once again, we're already used to the lies of the People's Party. Cease Mr. Telmo Martín, leave behind his story in the urban corruption of Sanxenxo, the urban corruption of the Galician People's Party. If you were to protect Mr. Telmo Martín, they have no legitimacy here to come and talk about housing later. And we in the bubble have been repeating it for a year and a half here: we dance the perfect conditions for the bubble to be created, and that bubble very negatively affects people's lives. I mean, the rental prices are going up spectacularly because there are no housing policies that prevent it. We have repeated what measures can prevent that bubble: public promotion of housing, the mobilization of empty housing, the criminalization of the housing that is empty in the hands of the great owners. You, by the way, didn't even do the local farm law in Madrid in 2004, so that the municipalities could apply a charge to the empty housing; you blocked it in Madrid. And it's true, the Socialist Party has a chance now to promote that change, but since 2004 it's been blocked because there's a contradiction of interest. There's a contradiction of interests, either it's right to housing or it's with the owners who want to do business with the housing. And you in all measures always stand on the side of the housing owners, who use the housing to do business and not the housing to live systematically, with that example of the IBI, but also with the blocking of the construction of a social-priced public housing park. You never bet on that because, of course, those measures would favor a price moderation, a price regulation. You didn't do that when you changed Galician Housing Law and gave you the opportunity to reduce the soil reserve for public promotion and public protection housing. Because all the measures you've taken have been to favor the housing business. And so we have the data we have. In 2017, the data say that the evictions in this country, in Galicia, have increased. In 2017, nine years after the start of the crisis, and here the challenges went up. And they'll still come here to say and fuck each other after they're provoking the worst violence you can or the worst violence you can use against people, which is to drive them out of their homes by their policies, and nothing but their policies that favor a few. And then, still above, not even in those makeup policies that you make are able to be effective or efficient. It is shameful to run the housing programs of the Galician Union over the past few years. The Star program, where they spent more money on advertising that program than in the program, literally: Empty housing program, ran last year 3.4 percent of the funds. Ten thousand four hundred and forty-nine euros executed from the counselor's star program, which was tired of assuming a 12-measure brochure that didn't mean anything. Pure advertising and propaganda. And the Aluga program, 20% running, etc. It's not that you failed, that they never wanted to do anything different. They want to try to conceal if they have an electoral cost. But you know which side you're on; you're on the side of those who're doing business now with the lease bubble...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u104	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u105	...and those who previously did business with the real estate bubble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u106	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, gentlemen of En Marea, you may prefer the Coruña model, as it cannot be another: warehouses as dwellings, and give us anything. That's right, always and when we pay... I've listened to it very carefully, I suppose you're not interested in listening to it. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I heard it, I didn't open my mouth; you're neither able to do it, because you're unable to respect the debate of other people who think differently from you. But that is... if the time has not come for you, Mr. Sánchez, if the time has not come, ask the president to give him more, but I ask him to respect my turn; I ask him to respect my turn because I also represent many voters, more than you, and have the right to be heard and respected. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, I'm asking for that respect. Now, that's right, I'm saying if the model is to convert warehouses that don't meet nor do anything into houses, as long as they pay their friends and the undersigned. That's your model. And Mrs. Pierres might prefer Mr. Besteiro's Garañón model and Mr. Orozco. I don't like him, and I assure him I know him well. That model doesn't work for me. And then I want to tell you one thing: I was really disappointed. Because you know perfectly well that when you are part of false data the conclusions are wrong and therefore your proposition is wrong. It may be valid, may be valid to bring to the debate, but it is wrong. And I'm going to explain: First. It speaks of 41%, to which the rest of the choir of angels were also added on this part, running the housing access games of 2017. Falso! 41.3% of the level of execution is a game, by chance, of "Rent Help", which is a portion of state funds, funds that come finalists, and that as the extended housing plan was not changed, it has the same amount, there were no new incorporations into the rental plan and therefore there were fewer requests, and even of the requests that were made there were a number of people who did not meet the requirements and therefore there was no shortage of that match. But the global execution of access to the Board's residence was 81%. And I dare them to analyze it in detail. 81%. And it's fake the first data. Second. And you know that, that's why you defray me, because you know about this subject, you know how to differentiate a housing of self-protection from a housing of public promotion. We know perfectly well what every thing is. And one thing is official housing, run and built by private companies or private promoters, and another very different thing is promoted by the board, by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo. And you're confusing everything. Look, the Ministry has no data on those promoted by the board. Those nine plus three who say you've got the qualification, which explained very well what was an official protection qualification, these nine that the Ministry gives are private, private promotion, and they're not part of the board's public housing park, because those are others. Moreover, the board's public housing park is not formed by those who promote the board, the board itself, and which are destined for sale. By the way, they were tried according to a decree on 253/2007. Do you know who was ruling in the year 2007? He presided over a socialist president, ruling nobody. They said here yesterday that there was no government, that they were only governments of the People's Party in Galicia, and they're right about that. Look, that decree, part of false themes, is not nine of the qualified housing, it's a lot more, because those of public promotion are not there for nothing, among them of new construction or rehabilitation. And then, on the other hand, it must be stated that Decree 253/2007 is currently in the process of amendment. And it has already been contemplated in that modification, which is being processed, the rental with option of purchase, something in which the decree passed by the two-party Government was not contemplated at all. And right now it's in processing or running or auctioning a number of important dwellings by the Galician Union: sixty-two in Vigo, forty-two in the Coruña, twenty-two in Ourense, eleven in project in Lugo. Plus, in rehabilitation, which they also count, in Lugo there are four assisted buildings. By the way, two of them have been licensed for more than a year. Do you know how long it takes in Lugo to give a municipal license for rehabilitation or for any work? Two years, from up there. Socialist government, curiously supported by the BNG and the tides of Podemos, is called their name. [[Murmurs.]] Well that's the government in Lugo: more than two years on a license. If there's no license, they know it can't be built. He's working and rehabilitating housing in Betanzos, six in rehabilitation, thirteen in bidding. Do you remember that proposal we brought here from modular dwellings? Well, there's already six women in Cenlle and Sober, and there's another six to bid. I mean, we're talking about what's board public park right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u108	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u109	...—Filled, Mr. President—public park, i.e., housing available to the rental users, and which are property of the Union, are three thousand five hundred, and two hundred that will be increased as soon as all of these that are in execution or in execution are completed. And if we talk about what you were talking about, Mrs. Pierres, about protection, public protection, uh!, public promotion, official protection, public promotion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u111	...that they were tried on property, but that board logically is not the owner, we could be talking about several dozen thousands of homes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u112	Thank you, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u114	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u115	Thank you, President. Mr. Castineira, I just have to tell you one thing: Mr. Castineira 0, Orozco 3. Now that we're from the world, maybe... and, on the other hand, with you, I also learned... [[Applause]] [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u116	Quiet. Quiet. Quiet, quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u117	Mr. Tellado, tell me you don't listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u118	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u119	Let's see, Mr. Castineira, with you today besides I find out that the words "much more" and "a lot more" are terms that should be included in the IGE, because, of course, you testify to me saying that I give unreliable data, and you tell me that they are a lot more, that they are a lot more. Well, let's make that request to the IGE to include them in the housing data. And also that "we're doing" isn't the same thing as "a definitive qualification." We agree, too. First of all, thank you for the support expressed by the groups of BNG and En Marea. And we feel the lack of self-criticism, indeed, of the People's Party. Something that doesn't surprise us in excess, and less at this point. Because from his intervention we can only deduce one thing: that his concept of success is far from our own, because from the Socialist Group we believe that we listen carefully to the recommendations made in April this year by the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, we would conclude, among other things, that we need to allocate sufficient resources to expand the public housing park, to regulate the private market and to avoid unabated prices. It's quite obvious. And it must be understood that this may involve new residence or second-hand residence rehabilitated. We're not talking here about building for construction, but about increasing the public park's offer of housing, much more than "a lot more" and "a lot more". Because in Spain there are two data that are particularly worrying: the first one, which does not reach more than two percent of the public housing supply, when in some European countries such as the Netherlands the figure reaches even 30%. And the second, that in 2015, in Spain, the percentage of the rental cost on the total available household income was for the total Spanish population of 32.5%, the second highest figure in the whole European Union. And with this data it's clear that abandoning housing policies is to abandon a fundamental right, it's more than increasing inequality among those who have the most and least. A government can't leave everything in the hands of the private offer, because then what we're seeing already in the big cities of Wales; cities where big investors are buying these apartments in central areas as it has already happened in cities like Madrid and Barcelona, in order to create tourist housing, which will cause is the exponential increase in rental prices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u120	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u121	...and therefore the expulsion of the city centers of many residents. With regard to the amendments, Mr President, of the BNG Group, you will have to understand that today's initiative aims to focus on autonomics. We do not disagree with some of the proposals they propose, similar to others that we ourselves have already tabled in the committee, but we believe that this is a debate that should be held in another initiative. And with regard to the amendments of En Marea, we consider inclusion as an addition point of points 1 and 3 of the four they propose, discarding point 2, for the same reason arguing with the amendments of the BNG, and point 4 because we consider that it is the municipalities that have to decide on their inclusion in the plan. In any case, because not even this plan — as I explained before — means that it is possible to create this housing park for renters, although we believe it is a very improved and resizable program that would give for an initiative itself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u122	Thank you, Mr. Pierres. Yes, Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, it was alluded to in the debate, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u123	Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday: first, what I'm going to say is that I was called lying. And, of course, in this camera there's already a escalation of insults that liar will soon be a loving adjective, right? So, first, to say I'm not a liar, that I didn't lie on this camera yesterday. And those who lie are others, because here it was said that Mr. Telmo Martín was convicted of fraud. And if anyone wants to protect and conceal his privilege of being a deputy to insult and slander from that rostrum, there they are. But the others ask them to leave the seat for private use of their deputy card, but they can defend themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u125	No, no, Mr. President, I'm going to say and let me finish that I have at least the right to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u126	No, you got it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Quiet. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u127	No, no, I'm going to explain why it wasn't a scam, no, because it wasn't convicted by scam, it's an administrative file opened in 2010.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u128	You understand, it's a nuance. That's it, that's it, Mrs. Prado, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u129	...and you have no criminal conviction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u130	That's it. Your time is up. That's it, thank you. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it. There's no replica. No, there's no replica. No, no, no, no, no, no replica. No, no, in allusions there is no replica. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, says the regulation that there is no replica in allusions. [[Protests.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Rule! They don't cross any arguments between you. No, no, no replica. No, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no replica! [[Protests.]] There's no. Quiet, please! That's it. No, no, there's no replica. That I'm clear, that there's no replica. There isn't! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it was alluded to. Members need to be clear how they allude, and point. It's over, it's over, it's over. No, no, I'm sorry, that's it! [[Murmurs.]] No, it's over, it's over, please. That's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's over! Sir, I'm gonna have to call him in order. It's over! That's it. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the measures to be demanded by the Government of Greece to regulate and homogenize the taxation of the pensions of returned migrants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u131	This proposal has been amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u132	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please! Quiet. Mr. Peace and Mr. Sanchez, silence, this is a camera. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet, that's it. Yes, please, we'll suspend ten minutes, no problem. [[Balbordo.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Madam Presas, you have the floor for the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. I've read it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet. I'll suspend. Well, gentlemen, that's amazing. I'll suspend. Mr. Pazos, silence! And Mr. Sánchez, silence! It's over, if not, I'll call them both in order. Quiet, quiet! Mrs. Presas, you have the floor for the defense of the non-law proposition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, please, it's over. Quiet, please. This is a camera. Silence everywhere. Quiet, please! Can we be quiet? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. A lustro, more than five years have passed since the migrants and migrants who even walked the streets of Santiago de Compostela and who are now at the doors of this parliament have begun their struggle. More than five years of struggle that give evidence of two lessons or two conclusions: First, the dignity of all these emigrants who, in the last few years of their lives, should be enjoying themselves after hard years of work. People who have been expelled from the country for the misery of frankism and post-franquism and the lack of a dignified future in our land. People who have gone away, in many cases, from their family, from their community, from their land and who could finally be resting, and instead were persecuted and persecuted as if they were criminals and corrupt. But time puts everyone in place, and it's becoming clear who the criminals and the corrupt ones were. Of course, for the Galician Nationalist Block, this collective has all our respect and we consider it an absolute example of dignity. [[Applause]] The second question that has highlighted this step of time is the other side of the coin, the one that is the worst and which is why we are here again today in this chamber with this issue, which is the absolute wish of the People's Party in the Union and the State; a People's Party that was an accomplice, cause and consequence of what we are talking about today. First of all, I'll refer to matters pertaining to the State and then also to the absolute inaction by the People's Party in the Union, disregarding the mandates of this chamber. Since 2012, during that great Government of Mr. Rajoy, the Tributary Agency has begun to forward — as its lords will remember — letters to thousands of returnees and returnees, demanding retroactive payments, followed by fines and other, in addition to an absolute voraxine of confusion, to the point that even in the offices of the tax agencies themselves there were contradictory instructions. That's how a long process began that actually covered and hid a strategy of collecting sumptuous amounts of money in times of crisis. At the same time as the People's Party, on the one hand, in the Government officially applied social cuts and pensions and, on the other hand, had that hidden agenda in box B and continued to weave in parallel that genuine and effective system of institutional corruption. The passing of time attests to the absolute intention of these movements by the State, that therefore some persecution movements were initiated by more than two hundred thousand Greeks and Greeks, and that the Spanish State applied discriminatory tax treatment for the origin of pensions. The Tax Agency has dedicated itself to persecuting this collective in this way for receiving pensions of Community origin, forcing them to tax in the State, when in the paying country they were exempt and had already, according to their caustics, fulfilled their tax and administrative obligations. Take a look at the nonsense. I mentioned 2012, and curiously it was the same year that fiscal amnesty chapuza or fiscal amnesty of shame that Mr. Montoro practiced. I want to remember that this fiscal amnesty — anti-constitutional, by the way, for those who are so devoted to the Constitution — has resulted in the defrauders, those whom the People's Party allowed to whiten money, have bleached more than forty billion euros, while for Fairy only returned less than two billion. That is, in short: propaganda, advertising and also whitening. That was the People's Party model. Meanwhile, at the expense of the returnees, more than 300 million euros have already been raised, 47 million of them in Galicia. Above all, I would like to insist that this was an absolutely whimsical process. Many people were fined unfoundedly, and some of them didn't even recover those tales yet. And the proof that this was an absolute chapuza is that over all these years we also have a broad history of cases that have been won in the courts. I imagine the People's Party will come here to wash their consciences about the incomplete agreements and to tell us again that there are many who haven't done what they should, that if returned migrants would do something wrong, that if we're discriminating the pensioners here, etc. But if so many judgments believe what we're collecting today, it'll be for something. The question is that at the time, the bottom of this matter, because from the State Fairy they should think that the ones and the returnees would be quiet, that they would be afraid, that it was also a time of recession, that we were talking about rescues and so on, and that they would prefer to keep that discharge that applied to their pensions, and so on, even ensuring our livelihood. But the reality is that they went wrong, because this firm and challenging people, who since 2013 have been organizing themselves along numerous comarcas platforms to question this issue, defend equal treatment in the fiscal field and live safely also their retirement stage. This mobilization effort, in fact, led to concrete changes, led to a process of extraordinary regularization in 2015 and small patches that showed that the State had indeed been wrong to apply this issue. But it was changes that, if they were a solution for many people, they left many ponds in this process. And at best, on many occasions they came to justice through those judgments. But not even with judgments that have been consolidated, and we have the example of numerous of the German field, aspects that are still pending have been changed. And that's what explains that this collective is still standing on the street demanding that the bilateral agreements, which in many cases are not being made, and also the impulse for policy changes that finally harmonise this situation and prevent a lot of people from being left behind. That's why today we want to emphasize basically three questions: The first, which makes the necessary amendments to Law 35/2006, to establish a framework to avoid these situations. We think from the BNG that we need to open the debate on the income threshold for the two payers' issue. Something that, by the way, would not only be necessary and necessary for the case of pensioners and pensioners, but would also open the door to see this improvement for all the workers and workers -- something we've already discussed on other occasions in this chamber. The second question is that the necessary changes are being made to avoid retroactivity, which is leading to this incomplete framework, this absolutely insufficient period of regularization, as it leaves many people behind and there will again be a new wave of sanctions and requirements this year. We think this would have to stop it when the frame is not rationalized, and we also think that all those amounts that have been wrongly charged should be returned. But today since the BNG we want to emphasize above all in an issue that shows the absolute disgrace of the People's Party in the Union. The fundamental reason why we reiterate these issues today is because over a year ago we reached a unanimous agreement in this parliament to seek a way out of the situation of disability pensions, but we see that what has been until there is very little Government of the People's Party in the State has done anything at all, but what is more serious is that the Galician People's Party has not done anything at all, taking up again the mandates that emerge from this chamber. In April 2017 we launched an agreement in this parliament urging the Galician Council to demand that the Central Government demand something so elementary and so absolutely basic that negotiations on double taxation agreements introduce a clause allowing the recognition of those invalidity certificates from any of the contracting states. In this way, there was an alternative, a consensus, a way for many people who are seeing how they have a recognised disability pension in their country of origin, and which is not approved, not allowing their transposition into the Spanish State, and which is causing them many problems and many difficulties. It's absolutely unfair that all these people have to end up going one by one on the way to get the pension they've obtained by law. It's absolutely unfair in any case, but let me say that if you still have a situation of some sort of disability or disability, because much more. We, the truth is, with good faith and innocence on our part, are confident that this agreement could lead to some term. But we see more than a year after what the Galician Union did. And what did the state do? Well, nothing at all, either. We hope now, and we will demand that the Socialist Party gentlemen, who have also adopted some of these issues in this chamber, and also in Congress, be demanding with Mr. Sánchez. We would have liked this in the first few weeks of what I'm talking about as part of those first ads. We, of course, will be vigilant if this is the case, because we have knowledge in addition to a situation that is being given that is very serious, with judgments like one that I have here, which is that up until now those courts were recognizing these situations, but it is that right now there is a change of opinion in legal operators and they are referring to the administrative route, to which these people go on the administrative track to check their situations of disability. But what's the point? We've also debated many times in this saturated chamber that's that way. So the reality is that many of our elders find themselves with a closed door in those courts, with a closed door also in the field of social and administrative affairs, and a path without any kind of sense and end, in an absolutely inhuman situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u135	So, in order to finally do justice and end this shame, we hope that the People's Party will finally rectify and support these initiatives, and also count on the support of the opposition, and we will urge and demand that these changes be applied by 2018. Because that's enough! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I also greet from this rostrum the returned Greek men and women emigrants who are mobilising, and currently mobilising in front of this parliament. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has already addressed this issue in the years 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, and has also been presented by the PSOE Group initiatives in Congress of Deputies, the Senate and even the European Parliament. You know perfectly well that even on March 3, 2017, a non-law proposal led by our group in the Commission 3rd of this parliament, and in which the majority party, that is, the People's Party, prevented the returnees and migrants from being treated with dignity. [[Applause]] Mr. President, please, I have a continuous murmur, which does not leave me... I know that little interests these gentlemen, but we do care. Well, listen, please listen. He said the People's Party prevented the return emigrants from being treated with dignity, once again applying their knee, the roller of the People's Party. In that non-law proposal, our group, the socialists, we ask that the return emigrants be no longer treated as frauds, that the necessary collaboration be made available to them so that they can regulate their situation and that they be equal to the tax treatment of the rest of the Spanish pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the men and women in Galicia who had to emigrate made them forced by circumstances. They had to emigrate because, like today, they didn't have a chance to develop their vital project. And they had to emigrate from Spain and also from Galicia because Spain at that time was a impoverished country that was emerging from a bloody fratricidal war. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the biggest illusion that an immigrant has is to return to his homeland. Dumbness, you know what it is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? It's a unique feeling of Galicia. [[Balbordo.]] Yes. Do you know what it's like to die? Well, I know what it's like, because I'm an immigrant's daughter, and I've lived with them. I know exactly what it's like. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u138	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u140	Quiet. Quiet. [[Sounds a bell twice.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, defending the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks, it is as if you are militant in Galicia. And defending the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks is a real commitment to Galicia. [[Applause]] Not with tears, which they show is the frustration of not being able to go to Madrid, because they don't want it. It is quite possible that friendships with drug traffickers were not a good letter of presentation. It may not have been a good letter of presentation, as much as they don't like it. [[Murmurs.]] The political action of the PP governments in respect of the returnees during these years was that the People's Party assimilated returned migrants with fraud, that the People's Party approves fiscal amnesties to favor those who have the most and the true fraudsters. The People's Party makes a fiscal amnesty for its friends and for the militants of the People's Party. Look, they approve a fiscal amnesty that allowed tax fraud situations to be regulated in tax havens, and at a minimum cost, not reaching half of the expected, and so expressed by Montoro himself. Look, it was an amnesty to favor who was the vice president of the People's Party Government, Rodrigo Rato; who was the Minister of Industry of the People's Party, José Manuel Soria; an amnesty to whom he was the treasurer of the People's Party, Luis Bárcenas; an amnesty to the wife of who was the Minister of Agriculture, Arias Cañete; a tax amnesty to whom he was the President of the Community of Madrid, Francisco Granados, among others. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Meanwhile, migrants helped with their work to raise this country. Returning emigrants do not ask to be exempt from taxation, returned emigrants ask not to be treated as fraud. And while the People's Party is a civilly condemned party for corruption as a lucrative party and condemned for delicious financing. I'm obviously right. [[Murmurs.]] A very interview by Mr. Carlos Cruzado in 2016, who is the president of the Gestha, the trade union of Technicians in Fairy, clearly said that Feventa is pursuing emigrants and does not put the slightest effort into the big fraud bags. That's what the President of the Gestha says. Our returned emigrants are older people in the vast majority of them, people with little tax knowledge practically in their entirety...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u143	...that they were concerned about clarifying their situation, but that the Tributary Agency itself left it in its will to declare them or not. In the case of pensions for returnees in Germany, you are not recognizing the judicial judgments that give reason to these immigrants, because you can understand that we are in a double taxation. And in the case of pensions of absolute disability or great disability...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u144	You're done now, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Finish. Look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u145	... yes, I am finished, Mr President—who have acknowledged what is required is that they be assimilated and that the exemption be applied directly to them in their IRPF statement. Well, I can't go on anymore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u148	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u149	Well, in a full as we are, I want to remember the free expression, which is something inherent in modern parliamentaryism. We have inviolability, responsibility for the opinions we see here. That's right, we can use it properly to talk solvently or to say nonsense. No one prevents us from doing this, except when we consider the president that we do not fit in with that decoration of the House. Yesterday, I have to regret that Mr Pazos — he is not here now — used and froliced with something as serious as child sexual abuse to confront biasedly with En Marea, and I do not think I receive it. Just like the lies that Mrs. Prado spoke yesterday against our companion Paula Quinteiro, because they are lies, and it's obvious. Yes, yes, I asked for the resignation of my companion Paula Quinteiro, but they know perfectly well that not by the alleged conducts that both you and Mr. Rajoy at the parliamentary headquarters unpunished attributed to her. [[Murmurs.]] So it's not all worth it. Well, yes, we are going to the question that according to Article 104 because the President understands that he would call me to the issue, but remember also Article 76, for which he must give the floor to whom he is considered to be referred. And the question is the need for returned immigrants to have fair treatment. The situation of returned migrants in Galicia can be used to exemplify the history of the second half of the 20th century. They are pensioners who contributed during the golden era of the welfare state in Europe to the so-called "thirty glorious years" in the 1950s and sixtys, and who will receive the pension at the time of financialized capitalism and the attack on precisely those welfare states, including public pension systems. Another moment that coincides with what states are seeking to derive their income primarily from the working classes, also those that are in their retirement, in a much more virulent way after 2008, and in the Spanish state captained by that Rajoy government. With the crisis, in addition, there is no need to repeat that the social difference between those who have the least and most gain has been accentuated. Our country's data are demolition regarding how the middle class was sprayed. And in a context — which we have always repeated — in which pensions represent the main income for a third of the Greek homes. How many returned pensioners who are out there today were the main support of their families in the toughest periods of the crisis, at a time when they met precisely this pursuit of the Fairy! So this is the context. Among the retired persons were required by Fatenda to retroactively regulate the IRPF of pensions charged abroad, despite double taxation cases, Mr Montoro — as he was already exposed here — pushed the fiscal amnesty — the famous fiscal amnesty of 2012, which was certainly annulled by the Constitutional Court because he considered it to be a measure to legitimise tax fraud. And while this was being done, returned emigrants, who had worked their entire lives, were required as fiscal criminals. While also, by the way, if they were beginning to discover the papers of Basel and were going to flower the corruption of the PP, funded by funds from illegal activities, and these are proven. Well, it's obvious that it takes a fair treatment for returned emigrants, which means nothing more and nothing less than being treated like any pensioner. This petition for taxation has affected thousands of pensioners, of returned migrants from Greece and Greece who, as has already been exposed, have been re-required by Fatenda and are going to be organized and will continue to be organized. They've already made some success. They have already made it possible for the Court of Justice of the European Union to give them reason in some of their demands. But it is necessary — as the initiative points out — to complete this process, to approve the tax treatment of pensions for foreigners with those of Social Security. And, in fact, the judicial judgments were giving reason to the pensioners' collective in this regard specifically. These measures have not been sufficient, such as that unique additional provision of Law 26/2014, because they are now again required and that voluntary period of taxation has not been sufficient. But in addition to this amendment of the law, I came to recognize that there was an excess of zeal on the part of the Tax Agency for these people. In particular — before time runs out — we want to point out that it is particularly harmful for return emigrants to the lack of fair treatment for disability pensions. We don't understand how there is consensus and unanimity in this sense. It is fair that there is a clause, as requested by the initiative, allowing the recognition of disability certificates from any of the contracting States for the purposes of tax obligations. Something that seems to be a minor matter, but it's very important. What this initiative calls for in relation to the information campaign is fundamental, since if many people, thousands of people, did not access that regularization in the voluntary period, it was out of ignorance. So our vote in favour of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u150	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Look, now what we're missing is that emigrants are the heritage of opposition groups! I have people from my family buried in Argentina and Chile as well. Don't demagogy these things that we're all affected. [[Applause]] Let's not come here to do stories and stories. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] When I talk here about tax matters, Mrs. Rumbo and many of you tell me that I am like a teacher, that I speak like that... I try to speak rigorously. You criticise me because I don't make politics, and I ask you: is it to make politics to propose to pensioners things that can't be done, feeding false hopes? To make politics is to harm the German pensioners, our mothers and our grandparents, who have never emigrated, treating them unequally with respect to those who have gone abroad? To do politics is to defend the failure to comply with tax obligations — I am not calling them fraudsters — and that there is no consequence? Is that politics? I can't count on it, ladies and gentlemen, nor with my group! I respect and defend the returned emigrants, of course, there we will always be! Now, tell stories that are not true, no. No doubt about it! Let's go to the initiative and talk about the things that have already been explained here. First, there is a principle in international taxation law and in double taxation agreements — and if the Bloc considers that a German nationalist group can change that, I ask it on the initiative —... in international tax law, when there is a situation like that of emigrant pensioners, taxation in the state of residence is established. I do not say so, I did not say it by the People's Parliamentary Group, but it speaks of all the double taxation agreements signed by Spain. Say it to international tax legislation. So these people who emigrated — they were in Germany, France or wherever they want — and now they come here, they have to pay taxes, but do you know who? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The German pensioners! May our mothers and our fathers, who, when they get their pension, have a retention, gentlemen. But don't say no, it's just like that. Look, please — I ask you — on your parents' or mother's payrolls, look at them all, you'll see how they have a retention for the IRPF. That's why those pensioners have the income limit of 22,000 euros. Why don't foreign pensioners have it? Because there's no retention, they charge the gross pension. I talked about the example of the twin brothers, I don't know how to say it anymore! That's why these people have to file the statement. Why? Because if we don't, we make our pensioners worse. That's right, no doubt! You see, in 2014, what happened, that after a lot of pressure from many returned emigrants, it was considered that at that time there was a very great ignorance about the taxation of pensions, and without denying that they had to pay here, an extraordinary regularization was made, six months were given. By the way, people could be informed that they can still claim the return of what they paid unduly. Four years of prescription and it can still be done. So, please, let's not play with these subjects, let's not do demagogy. Madam Presas, you can come back here now and get me the bread and whatever you want, but this is reality, it's reality! That's what makes the rule. And I repeat again, it will be politics to tell everything you just told me, but please me strictly and technically, to see what can be done. Where there's a problem -- and I want to point out, and we talked about this last year when the initiative was made in April 2017 -- it's with pensioners who pay a pension from another country because they had a disability situation. We think someone cut off a finger working in Germany and came here. Ladies and gentlemen, that disease that can be qualified here as a great disability or absolute permanent disability, and that brings with it the exemption of the IRPF, perhaps in Germany it is qualified differently. What did we say at that time? The qualification you have in Germany should be approved here in Spain for the IRPF exemption. And we said that this is complicated to do because the legislation on social security is different in each country, and in addition to documents often come in a foreign language, there is no equalization between situations. And from there we proposed that in the double taxation agreements, in terms of reciprocity, this situation should be taken up. Because don't forget what you're proposing to people in other countries wouldn't have the same treatment. So what I'm going to do is take a step forward a week ago on the Socialist Party's motion. We — you know, the people of the Bloc, perhaps because they were going to present this and were waiting for the demonstration — voted in favour of the motion that the Socialist Party presented last week, in which with a much more technical and much more rigorous wording — and therefore has more chance to go ahead — if you ask for the same thing as you are asking for in points 3 and 4 of this report. Why are you coming with this here now? Putting us in front of the lions in front of the returned emigrants, saying that we want to harm them? We didn't buy him that situation. Therefore, the application for pensions for absolute permanent disability and for great disability is already collected in the Socialist Party's motion. By the way, it is also a motion put forward by the Parliamentary Group which is now in the Government of Madrid, with which I hope that we will support each other. Because I'm sure we'll be given a lot more attention than a GNP approved or proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block. I have no doubt about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u152	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u153	First of all, we thank the voicer of En Marea for her support, and also the Socialist Party for this amendment. Looks like there's a chance we can get into some transaction and we'll try. On this point, to clarify that one of the issues the Socialist Party raises in its amendment is a reference to an earlier parliamentary agreement. I think the Socialist Party's voicer wanted to refer to this last month and by mistake she misjudged the date. And, indeed, on that issue we are in favour of supporting these points on disability, and we have done so on other occasions. The motivation for us to abstain from other points was because it was related to another question relating to Venezuela, as has already been explained at that meeting. So don't try to manipulate. We have a lot of disagreements with the Socialist Party, we never hide it. Neither when they were part of the State Government nor when they were opposed. Now, there's also an important difference between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, which is that there are those who can be talked to, and there are those with whom you can see that you can only talk to your face at one point at a time, like that invalid agreement, which had already been reached here in April 2017, before you've re-voted it with a different wording in the Socialist Party's proposals, and that you haven't done anything since June or the state. Because you didn't, Mr. González, not a single argument that they made this precious time to address that issue that they were so concerned about invalidities. It is very difficult to find a framework for the transposition of disability issues. [[Murmurs.]] Now, after, for many other things, it's not. For something you will have to use that European Union which is so enthusiastic to enable some kind of framework. As in other matters — saving distances — as in university titles, or other types of certifications. What was missing and what was missing from this bench is political will. Now, at least, I hope that they will withdraw and that, if they vote against, at least do not do now that as others in Madrid vote in favour to wash their faces. More questions about this. To insist that this is not the first time that the People's Party has breached Parliament's agreements. Because also on the issue that Mrs. Rumbo said, that bilateral agreements with Germany are not being complied with, I have here a May 2015 agreement, also driven by the BNG, that the People's Party has thrown out the garbage because it is inappropriate for you to discuss with Mr. Rajoy. And, of course, we don't have the heritage of the returned emigrants. They are autonomous, free people who decide freely how to organize and vote. Now, I also tell them, I don't know if their families have emigrated willingly, not mine, nor those who have emigrated in the sixtys or those who have now emigrated. [[Applause]] Then to me what would shame me... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u154	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u155	...is to come and talk to them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u156	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u157	...and explain to them that I'm not exercising political power to avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u158	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u159	Because, in fact, the BNG does not govern the Spanish State or govern the Galician Union, but if it did, it would do something so that, at least, the issue of invalidities... well, I'd like to be able to speak, Mr. President... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u160	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u161	No, of course, it's... very good. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u162	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u163	Yes, very fine skin. Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u164	Quiet, please. We're gonna end up having to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u165	Yes, of course, but when you're riding a polo... and don't you, Mr. Tellado, of Mr. Bará, who had the elegance not to say here that you were calling him stupid!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u166	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u167	And they didn't tell him anything since the presidency and he kept talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u168	Silence! About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u169	No, it's okay!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u170	On the amendment of the PSOE, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u171	No, no, Mr. Santalices, I'll explain what I have to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u172	Yeah, but look at the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u173	No, look at the clock. They won't let me talk!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u174	No, sorry, it's been a minute. But we've been there for a minute! [[Protests.]] Quiet. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u175	Mr. Santalices, that's all right!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u176	Please, I'm telling you we've been here for a minute. I'm telling you to finish and talk about the amendment of the PSOE. We've been over a minute. Too much! [[Protests.]] Yes, he did. [[Protests.]] Well, silence! [[Protests.]] Go on and go on and on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it's positioned on the amendment of the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u177	On the amendment of the PSOE, I shouldn't have been paying attention, but I've already spoken at the beginning of the intervention, Mr. Santalices. With all due love. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u178	Well, I didn't understand. Did you accept it? Do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u179	We're talking about a compromise proposal because there are several points we don't agree with. And for the correction also of a mistake on the part of the Voice Lady in the referral of an agreement, and it's also important for us to specify the date of 2018. So we have a transaction proposal that is almost closed to be read to the other groups and put to the vote. If we weren't wasting our time now with the interruptions of the People's Party, maybe we could have made a minute break for, before the vote, move it to all groups. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u180	They can still have it. Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u181	Can I go on or...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u182	No, your time's up. Look at the clock, please! Two more minutes! Two minutes! Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Excuse me, what do you want the word for? No, no, wait a minute. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you want the word for? Excuse me, I'll know what the word is for. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Everyone has the right to ask for the word, I will now value it. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! What do you want the word for, Mrs. Prado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u183	Article 77 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u184	In that sense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u185	Article 76, I was again called a liar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u186	I think the regulation has been observed at all times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u187	I was called a liar again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u188	But that, Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u189	No, Mr. President, I want to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u190	I won't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u191	Yes, by the article... I ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u192	No, the Presidency values allusions. I won't give it to her. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado, I'm sorry. We vote. It's over, please. It's over. Is there a transaction? Do you need a time for the transaction? Madam Presas, do you need a time for the transaction? Yes, one minute. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Perfect, perfect. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Go on, this isn't gonna be the problem. This presidency is not going to make any trouble for them to come to an agreement. I wish they'd come every day! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. We're still... quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! No, Mr. Losada, don't think out loud that it's dangerous. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Low-voice reflection that's better, more interesting. Quiet, Mr. Paz, quiet. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't think out loud, if not this... my mother! Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to have to put a sort of crystal like that up there so there's no noise on the highways. We've reached those extremes...! [[Murmurs.]] You'll see! I've been here for so many years I've seen everything. I've come from all over here. I've been seeing everything for so many years. But until we get there some crystals... that's not enough for now! We'll see, it'll all move! [[Murmurs.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u193	At the end of the debate, we started the votes. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But this is already the compromise proposal. We begin by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Carmen Santos. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the implementation by the Galician Board of Directors of an autonomous observatory for the defence of transparency in access and management of research and university institutions. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 50. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u194	We now vote for the Group of the European People's Party on the Environment. No amendments were accepted, neither the Galician Nationalist Block nor the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de In Marea, on a popular initiative, on the creation of a park of firefighters of direct public management, based on some of the municipalities of the district of Val Minor, where the current staff of the Supreme Emergency Group of the Commonwealth of the Val Minor are integrated. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 36; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u195	We are now voting for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Pazos Couñago. It was Mrs. Egerique's, I said wrong... here comes worded Mr. Pazos but it was Mrs. Egerique's. The amendment seems to be accepted as an addendum to point 2. You don't agree? Have they changed? Okay, so you don't accept it. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members, on the preparation by the Galician Council of a report on the possibilities and circumstances open with Brexit, in commercial terms, in relation to the Greek fisheries products. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 36; abstentions, 34. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u196	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará. There's a transaction proposal, this one I have here. Do the groups know this proposal? So we voted for this transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Wales to establish composting as a universal model for the treatment of urban bioresidues in the first quarter of 2019, as well as to study the possibility of collaborating with the Provincial Deputy of Pontevedra in the development of the Plan Revitaliza and its extension to the rest of the territory of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u197	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez. Is the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group accepted? No, no, no, no. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the certification, granting of aid and transfer of the neighbouring mountains in a grave state of abandonment to all those communities of neighbouring mountains in common which are in compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular as regards the approval of their forest management or management instruments. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 50; votes against, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u198	We are now voting on the non-law proposal of the Galician Socialist Group on the initiative of Mrs Concepción Burgo. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the establishment by the Government of Greece of an annual compensation fund to incorporate into the budgets of the Greek universities the incomes that cease to receive by freezing the rates of registration of degrees and the lower prices of qualified masters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u199	We now vote on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres. Paragraphs 1 and 3 of the En Marea amendment are accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the offer of the public housing park. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u200	Finally, we voted for the non-legislative proposition of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. There's a transaction proposal that made me come in. Do the groups know the proposal? Yes, Mr. González Vázquez? Speak to Mr. González Vázquez. [[Mr. González Vázquez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u201	We want to call for a point of view to solve precisely the problem that came at the initiative with regard to disability pensions. Points 1, 2 and 4 are for which we want to vote by point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u202	Do you accept the point vote? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, give a voice to Mrs. Presas's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u203	Since this same point was adopted by this Parliament and adopted by the People's Party, we do not accept the vote by points. For that point, they comply with the April 2017 agreement. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u204	A point of order was not accepted. We voted for this transaction. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the measures to be demanded by the Greek Government to regulate and homogenize the taxation of the pensions of returned immigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u205	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the agenda points, in this case the interpeleration points. Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the planning of the Greek Government in matters of attention to people with acute myocardial infarction
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u206	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today to speak of health the truth is that socialists give us a little more breath, because we undoubtedly celebrate the recovery of something we should never have lost, which is the universalization of health in this country, thanks to the new minister and the new Government. [[Applause]] Little used to us in recent times to be proud of the Government of Spain. You see, one government comes in flooding the country of solidarity and another has to run out inundated with corruption. The truth is, differences are important. In any case, about the Greek health system, which is also going to be affected — and positively — by some of these measures or by the measures that are already under way, we today want to raise our doubts, our questions, so we ask about planning in what corresponds to the attention of people affected by acute myocardial infarctions. As the councillor knows perfectly well, and as Members and Members of this House know, there are some doubts about this issue not only by the political groups but also by many of the system's professionals and, of course, also by many users, who by echoing those doubts also have their uncertainties. To clarify and to aspire to achieve better planning and organization of the system — if this is possible, we consider it to be yes — we will bring this interpellation, which will focus especially on three issues. First, on the implementation of the Hemodynamics system 24 hours in the hospitals of Lugo and Ourense. And secondly, about the need for a medical ambulance in Salnes. The third question, and to the thread also of this health area, but probably so that it can also improve attention elsewhere, is the planning of the transport of those affected by the AMI, because there are doubts about the need to carry or transport the people affected to one hospital or another, given that in the face of an acute myocardial infarction attention is fundamental in time, and it makes no sense, or at least it is very difficult to explain, that patients are taken to hospitals farther away in distance and in time, than others closer in distance and in time, when it comes to caring as much as before. These are the doubts that this initiative essentially raises. Actually, the implantation of hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo and Ourense, the medicalized ambulance in Salnes, and the improvement of transport decisions, are improvements that will be made. They're probably going to be done soon before what you can expect is quite likely, and they're going to be done because they're necessary. The question is, Counselor, whether you're going to be in the solution or whether you're going to remain in the problem. Because they're going to make and decide, and you know it. So we want to know, first of all, whether you've already made the decision to make these improvements or you're going to wait for such an unstoppable requirement that you have to do them by obligation. We believe that you should do them by your own conviction, and that's our approach. Given the planning of the Council, which seems to have — and all the data say — to prioritize not only the city hospitals in front of the peripherals, which too, and we have already seen it in the planning of the Health Act and in the ongoing decisions about staff, but also, within the hospitals of the cities, some cities about others, the truth is that we sometimes wonder if you are counsellor of health in Galicia or health adviser of southwest Galicia, because it gives the feeling that in some planning you are closer to one hospital than the other, as if you had more desire for some city. If you allow me, Counselor, who knows that I like to enter some debates, sometimes peripheral, if what you have in mind is to be a candidate in Vigo, I don't recommend it, because it's equally difficult, being number one, to get out chosen concel. But actually, if you've thought about it, the truth is, you're actually trying to get votes at Vigo's hospital, which is fine, it's a possibility. Vigo's citizens can surely thank you, but you'll be harmed in this case by Ourense's, because it's derived from Vigo's patients, and what we don't understand is why there's not twenty-four hemodynamic hours there or in Lugo. Because, what happens to hemodynamics? I was on my office schedule. There was a moment when in Lugo and in Ourense there could only be infarction in office hours, because if he was infarction one after three in the afternoon he had a problem of attention, he had worse attention. There was a beginning of data collection; data that then only has the People's Party, and mentions them the spokesperson of the People's Health Party, but they are not made easy for other groups. You have the Council, you mention them to the Council, but you don't make it easy for the other groups. That data, which was known only in their first record but not in the following, said, of course, that their decision to implement only until three o'clock in the afternoon hemodynamics in Lugo and Ourense, but especially in Lugo, was rather harmful. When they gave harmful data, when they showed that the data was bad, they disappeared, and now they're calling for alleged data protection. If no one here asks for DNIs, no names, no addresses, we ask for statistics. If statistics are a question of data protection, we're having a problem of transparency. We just want statistical data, which is the question, what's the problem, what's the incidence and what's the solution. It will be done, because after that question of having them only until three o'clock in the afternoon, it has expanded by pressure from the other groups, by citizen pressure, by pressure from the professionals, by ten o'clock in the evening. Why don't you expand the 24 hours? For the same reasons that extended to the ten of the night, it is impossible not to argue that it extends to the eight of the morning and do the 24-hour cycle. It's going to be done, and you have to decide whether you're on the side of the solution or the problem. Medicalized ambulance in Salnes. He asks for a number of chiefs of cardiology in Galicia and asks the vice president of the Spanish Emergency Society, who is also president of the Greek delegation of that society, who is also chief of emergencies in Salnès, and says that a medical ambulance in Salnès is essential. It's obvious and necessary that we need that ambulance in that area. Why? Because the transport of those affected by acute myocardial infarction that is now being done is poor, in the sense that we do not have that medium. Because you don't have a medical ambulance in Salnés, what's the problem? There are two things we can see about this. First, will it be a matter of cost? It's hard to be, because it can be estimated — going up, to calculate gross — that can have a cost of 600,000 euros; that's what Sergas spends on priests a year. We prefer ambulances rather than priests, it's a political position. You, for now, prefer priests. I don't want to have a heart attack, but if I had a heart attack, I'd rather have a doctor than a cure. And it's a political position. We'd rather you care for a medical ambulance than a priest. Of course, you may think something else, but what we say is, we almost prefer a medicalized ambulance, and it's necessary, as the professionals say. The second question you argue about the medical ambulance. There's no need for attention levels. However, although they usually argue that the arrival of summer and population increase do not increase the demand for assistance, if that ambulance is three months a year in Sanxexo. Don't worry, I won't talk to you about the mayor of Sanxenxo, don't worry. By the way, legitimately mayor with a motion of censure, legitimately mayor with a motion of censure. And I'll leave it here. [[Applause]] Allow me to make a point, a very curious motion of censure, because what I used to be mayor voted in favour of the motion of censure upon himself to be mayor's lieutenant, which in my town said, "that smells bad." But it's not a matter of talking about the mayor of Sanxenxo, who, if not, if he hits me on the bench. Displacement of the affected. There's a problem, because professionals indicate something that for those people who might not have a knowledge of planning is quite obvious. Why do those affected by acute myocardial infarction in Salnes move to Vigo or Salnes. Are you giving them the right to have good attention? Are they breaking rights? Maybe you're really broke. You've been talking a lot about breaking up lately. I think they're a lot of breaking up. The question, Counselor, is, if these affected have a better chance of being treated in Santiago than in Vigo, why? This was argued on several occasions that the decision falls to the 061. And we ask ourselves, is 061 an abstract entity that has headquarters in Wisconsin or Cincinnati? Because it doesn't have anything to do with Sergas anyway. Maybe 061 doesn't have any criteria to share. Like Sergas, the Health Council, you have nothing to talk to 061. Just like the 061 decisions on where you move are never consulted. If so, from our point of view we have a problem, if you don't have the ability to dialogue with 061 for that. There's another argument they don't want to tell you, like most of the things that happen in Health, and it's an organization that prioritizes the use of ambulances, which have to come from the south of the province to the north to take patients to the south, sometimes exchanging them in gas stations. Patients are exchanged from one ambulance to another in gas stations! And everything to optimize the ambulance service and that they can around pick up other patients. Or what's the same, Counselor, they prioritize cars, and we want to prioritize the sick. This is a debate in which we do not understand why there is no open and transparent debate, and that professionals are not able to understand that this transfer is not made to the nearest hospital, to the nearest service, because we are talking about that there are very limited, very fair, time measures that can help, can contribute, to a clear improvement or even to decisions that almost border between life and death. The question is why an ambulance is for Sanxexo and not all year long for Salnès. And there is no clarity about the criteria and decisions why patients are transferred to Vigo and not to Santiago in the north of the province. Why hemodynamics has expanded only one part and not all, as necessary, in Lugo and Ourense. From our point of view, it's for this advisor's will to be cicadare in resource management. You're very diligent in cutting, but very little in extending rights. It'll be done. It'll be done. You, as far as time is concerned — which I do not want to decide — about being a health adviser, have the opportunity to be a part of the solution and solve it. Otherwise, the next person who's going to be an advisor or health adviser will do it. I think it would be a lot more interesting than you could do, because actually the socialists don't care, when the decisions are good, than making them another, what we care is that the decision is good. We believe this is a good decision and therefore we would be delighted that you made it. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u207	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Before we move on to the advisor for the answer, we welcome the Erasmus Plus Cultural Generation Association. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the word, to answer, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. The truth, Mr. Torrado, the difference between us and you is that we talk about data, we don't talk like we're in a coffee shop. We give real data and, of course, we don't insult. It's always said that insult is when you don't have any arguments, and I think you have enough. [[Applause]] We're going to give data, because I think that's what you need to know about citizenship to then compare. According to the Standard publication of quality of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, a process of acute coronary syndrome with elevation of the ST segment, are studies that make this society, the most important in cardiology of Spain, the networks of attention to infarction suppose the ideal tool to care for patients properly from the pre-hospital phase. It is known that the implementation of these networks results in a reduction in reaction times and increases the rate of impact, thus impacting the results of patients suffering from this entity, reducing both their mortality and their morbidity. The Spanish Society of Cardiology says: in Spain the first acute myocardial infarction networks were created in Murcia, year 2000; Navarra, year 2002 and Galicia, year 2005. I mean, Galicia is Spain's third autonomous community that creates an attention to acute myocardial infarction with a 24-hour coverage for all Galician citizens in 2005. In 2012, only 6 autonomous communities, plus those mentioned above, Catalonia, Balearic Islands, Asturias, Aragon, Valencian Community and Castile-A Mancha, will develop a network of attention to acute myocardial infarction, which assumed that one of the two Spaniards was not under the cover of one of these networks. And he continues to say to the Spanish Society that in 2016 still persists in three autonomous communities that do not possess a network of attention to infarction: Andalusia, Canary Islands and Extremadura. They don't pay attention 24 hours. The Greeks have had it since 2005, if they have it. These inequalities in the care of acute coronary syndrome with ST segment elevation are also observed in clinical results. When we analyze mortality at 30 days, adjusted by age and sex, because of this entity, according to the autonomous community, we observe — they are data from the INE 2014 — that Catalonia, Murcia and Galicia have the lowest figures: 3.5, 4 and 4.2. Basque Country, 4.4. It follows Navarre, 4.9%; Castilla-La Mancha and Asturias present a rate of 4.7; and the rest, Cantabria, La Rioja, Valencia, Extremadura, Castilla-León, Canarias, Aragon and Madrid are between 5 and 5.7. Andalucia in that data reached 10.1%. Therefore, health care planning for infarction is a model of success in Galicia. It was developed in 2005, as we said earlier, through the publication of the Greek Program of Care for Acute Myocardial Infarction, PROGALIAM. Since its implementation, it has been replicated and adapted in the rest of the autonomous communities of the state, which adopt this model for its health services. The general objective of Progaliam is to reduce mortality and morbidity, improving the patient's quality of life expectations with infarction, promoting equity in access to health care services and reducing variability in the use of diagnostic and therapeutic resources and technologies. With Progaliam, we managed to consensualize clinical protocols on acute myocardial infarction in various services, hospitals and care levels; improve the organizational protocols necessary for their functional integration; create a specific network for patient care with acute coronary syndrome and create a database that facilitates knowledge, evaluation and continuous improvement of the process. And the data from Regaliam, the Record of acute myocardial infarction in Galicia, offer no doubt, are conclusive. In Galicia, over 96.5% of people with acute myocardial infarction, once those people who have cardiorespiratory arrests or shocks, survive. I mean, 96.5% survive. This assumes that, according to the last June data from the Regaliam Registry, mortality in Galicia is 3.5%, less than the percentage that the Spanish Society of Cardiology, the SEC, proposes as a quality criterion, which is less than 5%. Data indicate that all health areas of the Galego Health Service meet this mortality standard, which, as I say, is an indicator of the care quality of the Spanish Society of Cardiology. So these good indicators of infarction mortality are also observed in Salnes and Pontevedra area. As for the decision to lead patients with infarction, it is performed by professionals of the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia 061, which determines the ambulance that transfers the patient from the site of the infarction to the nearest Hemodynamic Unit, and does so with technical criteria of effectiveness and quality; evaluates the availability of ambulances of the environment and the time to transfer to the most appropriate Hemodynamic Service. Therefore, there is no fixed standard in that sense, whenever the most appropriate resource is the result of an analysis of each situation. Once again, since the Health Council we will continue on the same line as ever, improving the quality of care, rigorously, using technical and reasoned arguments, analysing and laying down improvement measures for the continued safe and quality public health system for the Greek citizenship. Of course, he's not going to rule wherever or where the health adviser or his team lives, of course, not if a parliamentarian is in a particular area and wants to claim exclusive services for that area. We have a general vision of Galicia as a whole, so we are talking about a network of success that has been operating in Galicia since 2005 and continually improving, because for this we have an expert committee, not a politician in a given area, but an expert committee that has been reviewing these criteria and continually analyzing the measures to be taken. In fact, in the last commission several things were said, and one of them was that, if we want to reduce attendance time, a very important task is a new media campaign so that the citizen quickly recognizes the symptoms that may become an infarction, and from there, start the circuit. The most effective, also demonstrated, is the call to 061, which is who analyzes all possible situations to reduce treatment time, which is an important time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u209	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u210	Thank you, President. Before I debate, I have some consideration of what you said. Little answer he gave, too, counsellor, little answer he gave. There's a consideration, and I think we should be realistic. You went up here saying that when you have no data, you insult. Believe me, I felt no insult in my intervention. If you've appreciated some, I, of course, apologize, but I don't think so. Look at the insults in this House. I heard here, speaking: fool, papanata, undocumented, ignorant, and in this very Plenary, a member not of my group — but to me that doesn't matter because decorum and coherence is good for all — was called stupid. Well, I agree with you that you shouldn't insult, but maybe you should look a little further at that side, because it doesn't make sense to do this debate if you don't. On the debate you brought here, he says: We speak with data. We want them, too. That's why we asked them. The problem is he doesn't give them. We asked him for data. For what? To speak with data, what happens is that it doesn't. You have them, can you talk about data to whom? With the People's Party, because the spokesperson of the People's Party brings here data that no other group is allowed, and then you can talk to it with data, but not with us. Why? Because he doesn't give them to us. We use the data that professionals have and those that are not under their control. It won't be for not asking for reports and data! And they always vote against it, which won't be so difficult. The next time you vote against them, I'll remind you that you want us to have data, and I agree with that, Counselor, so you see that we can agree on things. He said the hemodynamics system was implanted 24 hours in Galicia in 2005. It has been forgotten to say who ruled, that many times... I know it was a mistake, that you have good consideration for governments who do good things. Sometimes you remind them who ruled in a few years to make some criticism, and you forgot to say who ruled that year. And then, in truth, he did very little consideration. From what I've noticed, I'm going to have to correct and you're not going to be a candidate in Vigo, it looks like you're going to be an opposition Member in Andalusia, because it's basically what you did here, to oppose Andalusia. It's okay. They have more or less data. [[Protests.]] So if the thing goes well, we can't talk about data from Galicia here and you can talk about data from Andalusia. See if we're transparent. Look if we'll be transparent, Counselor! But if you want to be a member of the opposition in Andalusia — well, it is legitimate — it seems that it will have a similar result to what you will have in Vigo. I'm saying that because you're choosing places where they have an electoral problem, but well, you, of course. About 24 hours in Lugo and Ourense, when he started to give me some appreciation about the data, for a moment I thought he was going to give me Lugo's data. We're in a world-class era and went to the pole. For a moment, I thought he was going to be confused and give me Lugo's data, but he didn't give it to us. Of course, we'd like to have them and have access to that data, though you say it's not possible for some reason that you haven't explained it today and I suppose you already know that it's not possible to explain it, so we're left without them. You also know that about 30% of the infarctions occur in the early hours of the day, between about 6 and 10 in the morning, as the most recent studies point out. Therefore, we consider it to be a given more to insist on the need for 24 hours, because expanding to 10 o'clock in the evening as it has recently been done, by this pressure and runaway, is not justifiable if it does not extend. And by giving him data, I gave him one, and I asked him a question that I'd like him to answer. I know you're using the second intervention to make a little more incisive intervention about things because there's no time to answer, it's possible. But I appreciate it if you answer a question, the 600,000 euros that would cost that medical ambulance in Salnés, are now destined for priests in Sergas? Do you prefer priests in Sergas or a medical ambulance in Salnès? It's a dichotomous question. We prefer the medical ambulance, do you prefer it? For now the priests, but do you have any plans to change that position? It's legitimate either of the two questions, we're more of healing in health with science than with faith, but it's okay. I mean, you have the government in your hand and, therefore, you can decide. Finally, he talked about the transfer and said — and I appreciate the answer — that it is done with criteria for the availability of ambulances. Well, that's what we don't agree with. If the attention to people who have an infarction, who are playing life, who need urgent and rapid attention, depending on ambulances... If it depends on the availability of ambulances that go to a faraway place, we think we need to incorporate more ambulances into the system. That is why we advocate that criteria be clear, so that, if that is the criterion, we can have an opinion. If the criterion is available for ambulances, we prioritize the sick and you ambulances, which is a criterion that we do not share, but we can have a debate on criteria. You here have explained what yours is: availability of ambulances. We prefer the care of the sick, so we tell him that this is an unstoppable, unstoppable criterion, and therefore there will be a medical ambulance in Salnes sooner than later. There will be a reformulation of the planning about where the sick have to go, and there will be a 24-hour Hemodynamic Service in Lugo and Ourense sooner than later, and you know it. We're asking you to do it. And we ask him to do it because we think it's the best decision. You didn't give any data here -- because you said you liked to give data, you gave them from Andalusia but not many from Galicia -- about something that could contradict this decision, so we believe you actually agree with us, but for some reason we still couldn't understand -- I don't know if you'll have to deal with your preference for forgetting some hospitals and prioritizing others, I don't know if you'll have to do that -- you haven't given any explanation why they make the decisions they make. You know, you have the question of how to clarify me if you prefer a medical ambulance in Salnes or the priests in Sergas. And the one you're going to think of is hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo or Ourense. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u211	Thank you, honourable Member. Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is it's deformation, because I think I've named the 17 autonomous communities, and it's only left with Andalusia's data, why would it be? It's funny, Mr. Torrado, it's curious. You just listen to Andalusia and Salnés, and there's nothing else, there's nothing! [[Applause]] Ourense quotes him for accompaniment. Ourense doesn't care much. So, we're going to say Ourense because we take more territory, but to you what really matters is Salnès and Andalusia, let me make it clear this morning and other times, the truth is that it does. But no, he's not right, he's not right. We do not speak of territory, we speak of people, and above all of quality service, which is what the Galician Union has through the Galician Health Service. The truth is, he has a high-quality service. I'm still quoting the Spanish Society of Cardiology because it's a society of great prestige, where in the last two mandates two heads of service of Galician Cardiology were presidents. It's an honor for us to take charge of the Spanish Society of Cardiology to two heads of service. Now there's another specialist from Andalusia. In his RECALCAR report, at the end of 2017, on resources and quality in cardiology, he said that there is a remarkable variability in indicators among cardiology units in different autonomous communities. The provision of hemodynamics and compliance rooms with the RECALCAR survey — as I say, derived from resources and quality, study of the Spanish Society of Cardiology — says that the average is one room per 366,164 inhabitants, with remarkable variations between autonomous communities. The staffing of hemodynamics rooms is something above the recommended planning criteria, in a room per 400,000. These are planning criteria. Galicia has a ratio of 258,907 inhabitants per room, that is, much less than it considers quality planning. Extremadura, for example — I don't have the data from Andalusia, I have the data from Extremadura — is with Galicia within the communities that have the lowest rate. There's a good rate in Hemodynamic room stremadura per population. There are autonomous communities like Castilla-La Mancha, with more than 510,000 inhabitants per room, 510,000!, almost twice as much as Galicia has; or Navarra, with more than 640,000, which goes far beyond the Greek ratio. It is also recalled in this report that the maintenance of anxioplasty programmes requires a population area of sufficient influence — more than 600,000 inhabitants — and a picture of hemodynamicists agrees to enable a 24-hour service per day on 365 days of the year. You, in your inquiry, ask me why patients with myocardial infarction from Salnes are not drawn to Santiago Hospital and not to Vigo Hospital. You'd rather go to Santiago and not Vigo. I don't know if you know that your party partners in the Vigo Town Hall — Mr. Losada is now being sloppy — ask that the population of the health areas of Pontevedra and Salnes return as reference to hemodynamics the units and services available in the Vigo Hospital Complex. I think it would be very interesting that this motion presented by the Socialist Party in Vigo, in which I request my resignation, by the way, actually, I am ill-lucky, because those in the South ask for resignation and those in the North are not happy either... I don't know exactly what to do. [[Protests.]] Yes, but I don't know if I give any help to each other, and how you want me as a candidate in I don't know where, we'll have to keep working for the good of Greek health, and, of course, with equality, with the same accessibility for all patients, living where I live, and not, depending on where the parliamentarian is speaking, asking for something or the opposite. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Today the parliamentarian wasn't from Lugo, today it was from... but look, speaking of Lugo, he's bad luck too, because today, this very morning, the current president of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, Dr. Anguita, was giving a prize at the HULA that says: Excellent unit in the management of coronary syndrome. Look, the best units are in Lugo. How curious! And yet things are not doing well. Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. I like it too, but now Mr. Torrado is talking, and you have to know if they come to talk about Salnés or Lugo, they have that confusion. But the Spanish Society of Cardiology says the Lugo unit is magnificent, because it has 24 hours. Like all Galician citizens, they have been paying attention to acute myocardial infarction 24 hours since 2005. [[Applause]] Look, the election isn't between priests and cardiologists. The assistance structure has more than 3,600 million euros to pay staff, materials, and quality service. In ambulances we have more than 31 million euros of budget for urgent attention to all citizens, and we prioritize the money that citizens decide to go to health, not because of the whim of local politicians, who are looking for votes and not health care. We're trying to improve services and not votes. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u213	Thank you, Counselor. Yes, Mr. Losada, but there was no inaccuracy, it was only mentioned. No, no. No, he was very careful. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He was very careful. That's it. Thank you. No, he was careful. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. No, no, he was careful. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They don't enter dialogue now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I was watching! [[Murmurs.]] No, but he was careful. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He was careful. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure he was watching, really. [[Murmurs.]] I saw it, in addition, especially attentive. [[Murmurs.]] Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. de In Marea, on the actions of the Galician Board to ensure the proper provision of maintenance services at the new hospital in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u214	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u215	Thank you, President. Let's see if we have a calmer debate, because we have a full... I don't know if I'm invalidated as Mrs de Vigo to make this appeal, but I'm going to do it anyway. Good morning, Counselor. It is no longer — as you know — the first time that we brought this matter to plenary, if not, we could be accompanied by the nursing assistants, but they have been here another time and are following the debate. This is an important issue that, the content of what we know and what we understand about public health planning, has a lot to do with the privatization of services. You also know that this Member has brought the request to the Health Committee once again. I've already lost count, since the past legislation, of the times that various opposition groups have taken upon request that the public service be transferred again to Vigo's public-private hospital. But I'd like to start moving the work the nursing assistants do. My companions attend the work of nurses and nurses, doctors and doctors, janitors and janitors, because we all work together in the different services of the Galician Health Service. Companions take care that the environment is right, that the instrumental is right; they look after, they feed, they sew, they listen to and they assist sick people; and they do a very important human work in our public health system. What they don't do is transport and move dirty clothes, as we're talking about in this conflict. During all the debates, both in the Plenary and in the 5th Health Commission, we had to listen a lot of times — and today I would like to ask you, too, and although it is not in writing, I understand that you will say it in the answer — that there was jurisprudence about the tasks that the nursing assistants had to do. I'd like to know that you understand by jurisprudence, because you have a definition of law that I think doesn't fit what you understand by jurisprudence. I'd like to know. Besides, I would like you to move us that judgments we have in connection with this conflict that could sit law, which court and what time, because I found absolutely nothing. However, what I've found are rules that don't give you the reason. They also said on one occasion -- and that's why I'd rather start here -- that was a task of nursing assistants and nursing assistants. And if you've transferred something that's not true to the Health Commission, which was in a statute of these and these employees. However, if we go to the current legislation, Counsellor, Law 55/2013 of 16 December, of the Framework Staff Regulations of the Staff Regulations of Health Services, which regulates the provision of services, which regulates the rights of professionals and how professionals are classified, there is absolutely nothing. It is true that it is a rule of a fundamentally administrative and defining nature on how professionals are ordered within the Galician Health Service. But it has an interesting part, Mr. Almuña, which is the single derogation provision, which speaks of the rules which are repealed by this rule which has been approved, and one of them is the Statute of non-optional health workers of the health institutions of Social Security, adopted by the Order of 26 April 1973, except for an article which was repealed after Royal Decree 16/2012. I mean, that non-optional health care staff statute that you always refer to. I mean, there is no rule within the Staff Regulations that indicates what these tasks are. The only rules that can speak of the tasks of nursing assistants are those decrees that regulate the profession, nursing assistant studies. We have two: Royal Decree 546/1995 and 558/1995, which in no way indicates that the transport of dirty clothing is a task of nursing assistants. The second one regulates most of the FP's formative curriculum. It's a six-page decree, it doesn't have an excessive content. And Royal Decree 546 of 7 April, so the title of assistant nursing care technician, corresponding to the minimum teachings, which is what speaks of professional skills, does not indicate at any time, within the capabilities, anything that has to do with that transport of dirty clothing. The only thing you could approach is, within Article 2.1, when you talk about the maintenance of the patient's order, cleaning and hygienic-sanitary conditions and environment. But if we go to the release of this article throughout the decree, Mr Almuña, in the various competition units described in Article 2.1.3 of this decree speaks of the "Competition Unit 3: taking care of the health conditions of the patient's environment and of the health material and instrument used in the various consultations, units and services. Competence 3.2: maintain the order, cleaning and sanitary conditions of the patient's room, both at hospital and at home." It reports a number of competences and activities, and in no case — in any case — to transport and move dirty clothing packages. You might understand that the point that says -- it's taking him to the extreme -- "it's verified that the room is clean and tidy," but it's talking about the patient's room. I mean, in short — and I already leave the normative corpus — there is no rule in the legal system that says transporting and dirty clothing packages is an obligation of the assistants and the nursing assistants. So I wanted you to tell us what status -- I assume, because the only thing that was in force, indeed, is abrogated since the year 2003, when the status framework came in -- it's said that this is a task of these partners, because it's not, it doesn't exist. I'd also like you to tell me that you're in charge of judgements and that you understand by jurisprudence within the normative corpus or law that could force these public workers to do that work. What reality is it? That you know a year and a half ago about the existence of this conflict, because the conflict began when the private cleaning company workers refused to do a job for which they were not hired, you didn't solve it and you knew it a year and a half ago. I don't know if you particularly knew. In fact, in this interpellation we also ask you how long and when you've had knowledge of the Government, because we understand that, if you didn't know, you have a problem with the manager of EOXI and you should stop it, because the truth is that you're only going to generate problems within EOXI, Mr. Almuña. And I'm not saying that because I'm accused of alleged reckless murder, I'm saying that because, as you know, admonition after warning, threats after threats to the workers, causing problems when there was a year and a half that this circumstance was known, I understand that you have to make some decisions already, because it's ungovernable to Vigo's EOXI. The situation, as it is, is certainly not an assumption. There is one body, which is the Joint Follow-up Commission, which you referred to in the introduction of particular administrative clauses of the FIF, which was used as a control element of the conditions under which the concession was being made. After completing this technical office — two years have passed since the centre was opened — the Joint Follow-up Commission continues to work, and we would like you to tell us what those reports of the Joint Follow-up Commission are — understand what they are — regarding the ordinary execution of the concessionaire's provision of services. We understand that you should be taking care of this, the problem is that you don't have the capacity against private management, and now you're forcing public professionals to take over something that isn't the legal competence of these professionals. What role is being played by the person representing the Administration — namely, the Health Council — in the Board of Directors, when transferring the precarious situation in which privatized services are found? It is true — and we insist on several occasions — that we try to confront the employees of the private companies of the concessionaire with the public, when it is really not a fault or a problem of the workers, but it is a problem of the decision to privatize, of making an FIP, and then not to make the concessionaire take care of the services. If you're going to continue to benefit from that dealership's profit, and I have to remember that last year they already declared 1.3 million euros of benefit, of benefit!, above what is being paid to them; i.e. profit. We don't even want to think about what this is going to be like when they finish those costs that were still unburdened by the construction of the hospital itself. And if you've thought about rectifying the decision of this public-private collaboration formula. You know that we've asked you for the last time that this turns, because neither economically nor administratively, nor from the point of view of management, was never a good idea, and we're paying the consequences now. And the partners, the workers and the public workers, don't have to pay — not even those of the private company — the decisions taken by the Health Council to choose this economic formula — but not just economic, but management — as a model for Vigo hospital. That's the reality. And of course, we asked him what he's planning to do about the conflict of dirty clothes. Because, Mr. Almuña, tomorrow there's another day of strike in the center, and believe me when I tell you -- I suppose you know -- that the public staff don't go off for pleasure, go off when no one hears them, when they're threatening to show them, when there's still files open, and when there's really nothing in the regulations that forces them to do that job. And yet, with no negotiation of any kind with union representatives, it requires them to do a job that they haven't been forced from the beginning of the center's opening. By the way, with all the difficulties we have already defined in this plenary session and in the committees. So, Mr Almuña — and going to the practical question because it is a serious problem that needs to be solved — I would like you to answer us also with regard to those alleged judgments. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u217	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to make it clear that we have magnificent nursing assistants. Of course, I know him by first hand because I worked with many of them in this health area, and I know they're great workers. As are good workers, the workers of the cleaning dealership company. Some people want to fight between professionals, between workers, and I think that's not the case. Look, the construction of the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro allowed to end the health deficit that dragged the area of Vigo, and so we consider it to be a lot of people of this and other contours. Civil health work of the highest magnitude at a time when the country was experiencing great economic difficulties. It was hard to think that year about building a center and making a complete and absolute remodeling of the entire health area. The opening and launching of Álvaro Cunqueiro allowed an integral reordination of hospital care, but also of primary care, in Vigo, which, despite its complexity, in very little time has been revealed to be very positive for all, especially for patients. The evaluations of more than 2 million patients attended are extraordinarily favourable and show high odds of satisfaction in surveys that are periodically carried out to counter their opinion. Professional evaluations — as demonstrated by the health reputation rankings published at the end of last year, in 2017 the latest published — put the CHUVI at an unprecedented level of professional recognition, placing it among the 30 best hospitals in Spain. The Álvaro Cunqueiro public hospital is one of Europe's most modern and advanced hospitals, and brings together the best conditions of comfort for patients and their families, with an excellent professional level, who has at their disposal the best technology directed at providing a vanguard medicine. The private financing initiative model you refer to, is a legal model that in Spain supports different forms, but most of which applies to the design, construction, financing and operation modality, DBFO. Under this modality, the private concessionary entity builds the infrastructure, makes it available to the public health service, and manages the non-clinical services that are usually performed under contract with specialised companies in all health centres. With this model, hospitals were built in many European countries and in different autonomous communities governed by different political parties: Madrid Community, Castela-León, Baleares and Catalonia. But the construction model does not define the assistance character. Once again, I have to insist that the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is a public hospital, with staff dependent on the Galician Health System. As far as the functions of the category of TCAE are concerned, I must transfer to you that different judgments from the Supreme Court of Galicia and others, such as the Court of the Basque Country, recognize that this staff is responsible for the collection of dirty clothing because they are recognized as certainly a complementary task not already of the health professional, but also of specific tasks assigned to the assistants, a function in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations of Non-Optional Health Personnel. Up to recent dates, at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, the collection of dirty clothing bags from the rooms to the collection points was being carried out by the workers and workers of the concessionaire company, although this function was not contemplated in the recruitment service, as soon as it was demonstrated. After a complaint — as I was saying — of the union representatives of the workers and workers of this company who made the Galician Labour Relations Council intervene, this task was no longer taken over by the concessionary company, so it was carried out, since May 2, 2018, by the staff of the Galician Health Service as a task included among the functions of the technical staff in nursing care. Both in public hospitals in Vigo and in the rest of public hospitals in our autonomous community, the provision of non-sanitary services such as cleaning, laundry and lingerie and coffee shops, among others, are carried out by external companies. In the specific case of the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro are performed by the concessionary company, by virtue of, of course, its concession contract. At the request of technical prescriptions collected in the contract with this company, it is set out in paragraph 20.2.2, in relation to the scope and scope of the laundry and lingerie service, that the laundry and lingerie service shall include the tasks associated with the collection of the dirty textile at points assigned for this purpose by the Administration in each of the assistance units of the concessional perimeter centres. Similarly, paragraph 20.2.6, within the particular technical specifications of the service, provides that staff dependent on the Galician Health Service shall deposit their dirty clothing daily at the points enabled for this purpose within the bags to be supplied by the concessionaire. The concessionaire will be responsible for collecting dirty clothes at the points enabled for this purpose in the different centers of the concessional perimeter and moving it to the laundry. So it seems clear that these tasks are the responsibility of the workers belonging to the category of nursing assistants of the Galician Health Service staff, and so, as I say, it is done by a complaint filed by the union representatives of the workers of that company. But the reality is that what we're talking about, the discussion we're talking about right now, is exactly where the bag is left, if at the door of the room -- tell me yes -- or six meters further, at the point set for the collection. That's the discussion, that's the discussion. Let's not talk about anything else. It's just that. You can talk and take that discussion to the scope that you have to take, so from here I take advantage to say that this kind of discussion seems reasonable to take to a central commission as you have tried from the beginning, but it was not possible; and if not, there are other ways to do so, as, of course, the judicial route. We think it's a shift in what to see, first, the service to the citizen, and we couldn't let this dirty garment be abandoned at the door of the rooms, we had to have actions. If we're told that you can't do this concessionary company and if you're in the work that you can take on that staff, of course, it's not attacking one or defending another, it's just that you can perform the basic health service, for which all of us in Sergas work in the best sense. Of course, from here I ask all the affected workers to continue with the established routes, which we have established ways to reach agreements. But, of course, it seems to me that the road you're taking is a dead end. I think this must be avoided and we must try not to lead to confrontations, which is often what some people want, and yes to conflict resolution, to give the quality service that Vigo patients, or from any health area, need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u218	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor on her back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u219	Thank you, President. Several previous clarifications. The Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital hasn't completed anything, it has reduced 31% of the beds in Vigo, that's the reality. From the initial project to the final project, you have closed centers and beds, we have fewer services than before, and we have one of the largest waiting lists in the entire autonomous community, and we don't even have access to it. I remind you that you are going to spend a year and a half or more — I think it's over the year and a half — that you have to answer to me, this honourable Member, a request for information in the course of Article 9 — you continue to violate the law — by asking for non-structural waiting lists. That's to start with. Secondly, don't fool anyone. It's not a construction model. The PFIs are defined by law. Since you indicate the Public Sector Contracts Act, we're not talking about construction, we're also talking about service management, we're also talking about how health services are managed, because even though staff are still public in some cases — because private patient derivations are privatization, Mr. Almuño — how the entire hospital is managed directly affected by health services, and here we have a problem. The judgments in the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that you don't know what they are because you couldn't but indicate, or in Euskadi — one thing is judgment and another is jurisprudence, Mr. Almuña — were you to the Supreme Court? How many are there to feel jurisprudence? Okay, but do you feel jurisprudence? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because you talked about the demand for particular administrative conditions, and I also read the plea, but it doesn't say that professionals are the ones who have to take care of it. He speaks of the Galician Health Service, but we have a problem, because then you wrote a plea that goes against the standards of the statutory framework statute, which already says nothing, and the powers of the Royal Decree 546/1995 of the nursing assistants, who does not speak of the transport of dirty clothing. What are we talking about? We're not talking about if the clothes are put on the door or the clothes are put on a cage at another point. We are talking about the lack of respect for professionals, Mr Almuña, because before you privatized the hospital — although I know you do not consider it private — these problems did not exist. And from the incompetence of the Public Service, which is unable to face the private administration. And then who pays for it? Public professionals. He thinks the companions want to strike. By the way, strike is a legal way to get work rights. Not the one you decide here. It's a fundamental right. But besides, Mr. Almuña, you don't even define what those points are, indeed, because the nails are like they are and because the PFI was done as they were done. And I think anyone who misses the professionals is you and it's the Power, opening them files, insulting them. We're not talking about a specific topic in which, of course, there's a specific conflict. We're talking about how you manage public health, how you treat professionals, how you treat professionals, and then I'm able to get out of humanizing health services in Vigo's own EOXI. It's an insult to the staff, they feel insulted because they're treating them as if they were anything. They're insulting them by the Power, who said they were attacking and causing discomfort to the other professionals, and then they're talking about humanizing the service. Vigo's Management is a disaster, and what's going on with Galaria, Mr. Almuña, must also solve it, because it's a shame that extorts us from a public company where you've filled up and put your finger on the former Mosque-Rocío Counsellor. They're extorting us, and who's paying? The sick. Oncology patients, cancer patients who aren't tested, and they have to go to the Galician Health Service to rescue what a public company doesn't do, which is really a private company. That's reality, and that only happens in Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] Vigo Power is a disaster, and you have that responsibility. And I'd ask you, please, to answer the questions that come to the inquiry. If you don't want to talk about anything else, at least talk about the question and tell me what the reports of the Joint Follow-up Commission are. What a role and who's that person who's there by his advice. What they tell the dealership what they have to do. And why, if you've known there's one and a half of this conflict, which is not a conflict the union centers put against the nursing assistants, it's a conflict by the rights of the cleaning professionals, which are exploited by a company that doesn't put enough personnel, that's reality, and the hospital has been dirty since it opened because there's not enough staff. And now there's a problem because, to solve it, you solve it easily, transferring your responsibilities to public professionals. That's not the way to resolve the conflict. It's you who generate the conflict, and it's you who have to think about how to solve it, Mr. Almouniña. Professionals don't want to be day itself, day by day, protesting and on strike, because they already have enough of the workload they have. I think they're exhausted and tired, and nobody likes — and I'm done because I don't have time — to be in this situation. Please move us what you're going to do to resolve the conflict. Tell us what those reports of the Joint Follow-up Commission are, if you've been given your visa and please now and when you're doing your job, the cleaning company. And put the batteries to solve this. And you'll have to have the defendant manager resign because this is a disaster.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u221	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Solla, with no accuracy, or if she resigns or stops, it's complicated to resign. [[Murmurs.]] I repeat how I initiated my intervention. I defend the magnificent work that workers and workers do, both nursing assistants from this center and all the centers, as well as cleaning company workers. And, of course, they won't find in me a person who tries to confront collectives, but rather, they're trying to make the best of the more than 38,000 workers we have. The timeline of the facts, Mrs. Solla, was as follows. At the opening of the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, two personnel teams were joined, the staff of the General Hospital and the staff of the Mexoeiro Hospital. I mean what's the important hospitalization agency, and also Nicolás Peña. The cleaning staff was the same because they took advantage of the new company, so at first they continued to perform the tasks as they did in the old hospitals, performing differently according to the units. Thus, in some units the dirty clothes were collected by the cleaning staff in the morning and Sergas in the evening; and in others it was Sergas' staff who transferred the dirty clothes to the specified points and there it was collected by the cleaning staff. There were units in which, by agreement between the cleaning workers and the TCAE itself, the transfer work of the bags was already assumed by the latter. In these units, E.R.A.E.A., there has never been a conflict, since that task, which is estimated to be in 4 minutes in a 7-hour workday, was already carried out by the assistants themselves. This organization of work was maintained until the concessionary company signed an agreement with its staff at the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, where he learns that they will stop doing this function as of May 1, 2018. After several meetings to determine the collection points that were being negotiated with the concessionary society, they were expanded precisely to facilitate this work. So from now on, the function ceased to be performed by the cleaning staff and had to be entrusted to the staff of Sergas in the category of nursing assistants, staff to whom this function corresponds in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations of Non-Optional Health Personnel, a task recognized as the competence of these staff in different judgments. I was wondering what you're judging, because I've got several here, I've got several. I don't know whether you have them or not, but look: The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia dismisses the appeal brought by the intervener against the judgment of the Court of Social Justice number 1 of Ourense. I mean, a judgment by Ourense that was later dismissed, that was confirmed by the Superior of Justice. And also one, because I have several here, there will be more, but I have this from the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, Social Hall, section 1st, judgment of May 30th. I mean, there are judgments, but everything is questionable. Jurisprudence, I don't speak and jurisprudence, here alone spoke... No, no, this morning you only spoke of jurisprudence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not talking about jurisprudence, I'm talking about judicial judgments, and I'm talking about there may be discrepancies — it's normal there are discrepancies — but there are ways to get to agreements, of course there are! Look, the supervisors, the supervisors and the nursing management reported verbally, when this occurred, to the personnel of the change units and the obligation to perform this task, which basically consists — once the beds have been made and the patients have been laid down — instead of leaving the bags of dirty clothes at the door, taking them to the points enabled, as I said, about four or five meters from the rooms. That was the discussion. In the face of the workers' refusal to perform this function, the Administration referred a written order to the aggravated risks involved in patients' health in the care units considered critical: surgery, ICU, pediatric ICU, Oncology, Hematology. It did not affect everyone, it especially affected — the Administration was very careful to do so — the critical areas, where there should be no dirty clothes. The workers were deceived by certain people, who were informed that they had not made the collection, which was what they had to do. Later, two or three days later, they realized that it was not so and they began to do so, because it was an order that was contemplated within the functions. You can argue, as I said — and we said at that time — that through the commission of the centre you could negotiate. And if not, this is what we're talking about. You're talking about sentences. Perfect. If we don't get a deal here, there's the legal route. It seems to me that what I don't have to defend as advisor is that seven interventions are being cancelled; that seven patients who were going to operate go home; or that thirty people who were going to do colonoscopy, with their preparation, cannot be cared for. [[Applause]] I ask from here, please, to reach lines of dialogue to obtain a final result, and when there are discrepancies, we have a way that does not harm patients, which is the judicial route. It's funny, when they talk about privatization, they increase Sergas' staff functions, and in this case they don't talk about privatization. What are we talking about in this case? Major internal or external management? It's very nice to talk about something, and when they get to the municipalities where they rule, they don't put off any indirect management and they follow exactly the same in all the municipalities where they said they were going to change it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u223	You want to get into a fight to get an election receipt. Unfortunately that's how they use it all the time, they don't care about the health service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u225	...and they also give the workers and the workers of the health service. I think it's important, really, that we can go back to the situation. You can talk, you can come to agreements, and you can't repeat this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u226	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m., 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u227	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the working conditions and functions of the forest and environmental agents of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u228	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u229	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. It is a pity that, even if we are at this time, an issue which I think is important for the whole sector does not agree more parliamentary presence, but, well, we know how this dynamic goes and we will all be incorporated in moments, apart from, of course, that we on the basis of this interpellation will present the corresponding motion to substance the different points that we consider necessary. Counsellor, I didn't know if you'd be present or if you'd be present at the councillor of Fairy, as soon as you'd normally lead collective bargaining processes in the field of self-government, but it's true that the Rural Councillor and also the Territorial Environment and Ordination Council are highly affected in this whole problem. And I was going to tell the Public Service Counsellor that the Socialist Parliamentary Group on this question and I am in particular not coming with my book, but that what we have usually seen in terms of self-employment is with the duties that users of public services, in this case also all public employees, in this case of the sector, put us to the different political leaders, with much more obligation, of course, the duties they impose on those who are ruling. And it is no coincidence precisely a concern of this parliamentary group and of the whole sector that precisely on the day that the Council publishes in the Official Journal of Galicia the high incidence of fires for this year 2018 between July 1 and September 30 because negotiations or talks to progress in some way on functional reorganization and what is the substantial improvement of the working conditions of forest agents and environmental agents, indeed, have only taken steps, after almost a year and a half since the Public Service, together with the Rural Media and Environment and the Territory's Planning, had acquired commitments in negotiating tables of a timetable, precisely to advance — as I say — in the clear delimitation of the new functions of forest and environmental agents, and, above all, after the approval of a new set of scales and specialities on the grounds of the Law of Public Use, which, in addition, is the only reasonable question that it would be possible to make progress on the previous scales of the C2 and environmental agents, and in the C2 group, and above all, and above all, after having approved a new set of scales of scales and specialities under the Law on Public Use Law, that it will be precisely, that it, that it should be made more accurate. Because, Counsellor, the protection and conservation of nature and the environment are an essential concern of society as a whole; it is a priority task that requires from the public authorities the ability of the necessary human and material means. And the challenge of prevention, extinction and research of next-generation forest fires and their correlation with the set of forest policies and agricultural policies in Galicia intensify the challenge you face at the Galician Council with your staff assigned precisely to all these critical tasks. Because after the creation, as I told you, of the first scale of forest agents, back in 1992, after transfers to the functional classification group D, in the year 2000, the new school of environmental optional agents, enrolled in group C; currently, as I said to you, declared to be extinct by the Galician Public Employment Act itself in 2015, with the creation of a new scale of environmental management technical agents. The set of forest and environmental agents is basically divided into two councils: in the middle of the countryside, which has adscribed about three hundred and fifty personnel, and in the environment and spatial planning, which would have adscribed around one hundred and fifty personnel. We, it's a subject that we're not going to deal with today, I suppose, unless you have some consideration in this sense, and we would also focus on whether that organizational division is going to work out well. But this is a question that I think we should talk about on another occasion from a perspective more than the operation of the service organization than with the old called the entire Forest Guard. Because this whole group — as I also told the Counsellor — has been paralyzed since December 2017 all negotiations with the Galician Union on an agreement that regulates various aspects. First of all, working conditions. Every time the previous agreement signed at the end of 2004, which had entered into force in 2005, it has evidently taken several years — as I think you well know — expired. Negotiations on this possible review of working conditions began just after the fire strike in October 2017. It's not random, of course, but they were unilaterally suspended by the Directorate-General for Public Service. And I did not know — and in any case the Government is collected and everyone can account for the different actions of the Government — that it had explained precisely the councillor of Fairy why this unilateral paralysing of negotiations. Because in September — as I reminded you earlier — the Councillors themselves of Fairy, Environment and Rural Environment had taken on the commitment to develop a new regulation, not only of working conditions, but also of the functions of the new scale. And even the Education Council had also signed commitments to carry out a training process for all personnel, forest and environmental agents, in line with the training and qualification requirements of the new scale, for the 2017-2018 course. I promise that, as far as we've seen, he's also out of line. The commitments, on the other hand, are absolutely necessary, at least from the perspective of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the necessary effective establishment of posts in the field of forest fire research in each district, are another of the non-compliances we hope that they will cease to occur after the fire strike, but, above all, after all, after all the work, of all the studies and all the attendances we have been able to hear in the Study Commission for a new forest policy and in the field of forest fires. These three or four major non-compliances we can underline that they leave manifest a failure of real commitment, at least until now, on the part of the Greek Government with the conditions of work and with the necessary functional reformulation of everything that is the collective of forest and environmental agents. As I told you at the beginning of this intervention, we are meeting precisely at the beginning and the day when the Official Journal of Galicia publishes the order of its council to delimit for this year the period of high incidence in forest fires. Which I am not going to call it a priori of a certain irresponsibility, but we cannot understand how the Greek Government, how three councils involved in this issue, but which in a particularly intense way affects the Rural Council, has taken so long and so many months without a necessary reform of efficiency and efficiency and, above all, of operationality and working conditions for all the groups working in the sector. And this is a question that, as I say, we bring from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but — as I suppose all of us are aware — they have formulated the different trade unions and sectoral work tables, and in the general negotiating table. But in addition, last April, there were also first meetings with trade union organizations by their councillor, the Business Council, to deal with the whole problem of working time for forest brigades, working time and the creation of forest brigade squares. And in April, initially, the commitments were to study the possibility that workers hired to three months this year would spend four months, in 2019 to five months, in 2020 to six months, and that by this year there would be a commitment precisely to 2019 to create four hundred forest fire brigade squares. So far, unless you tell us something else, we have no news that in this process of negotiation in this sensitive sector at the moment they have moved forward. But it is more: the trade union organizations themselves, in the absolute passivity of the Business Council, of the Directorate-General for Public Service, and it is true that despite attempts by the Rural Council, and to a lesser extent by the Environmental Council, in the face of this passivity when putting on the table proposed new regulation of the new scale, in February 2017, they presented a complete regulation, precisely to facilitate the Government of Greece a perfectly systematic work, where specific solutions are regulated, not only in the prevention and extinction of fires, but in forest matters and in nature conservation, biodiversity and environmental quality. And not only the functions, but a complete administrative career structure, a complete regulation of the absolutely necessary day-to-day, hour-to-day regime, shifts, licenses and permits, incompatibilities in terms of uniformity and arms regulation. And, finally, the last chapter also perfectly systematizedly regulated the necessary second activity, labour health requirements, equality and the whole process of participation in different working bodies. This was a proposal, which I think you know, put forward by most trade union organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u231	...—I have finished, President—but only treated and at least received by the Directorate-General for Public Service, but there are, of course, important responsibilities for the Environment and Rural Environment. And without entering into other types of comparisons that can sometimes be more or less operational, but it is true that there are a number of demands for equalization and approval with other categories assimilated into different parameters, such as the Coast Guard services of the Autonomous Community, where trade union organizations are waiting for certain points and certain lines of work approval.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u233	That's why, Counsellor, and we'd also ask the Farm Counsellor or the Environmental Adviser, what forecasts does the Greek Government have precisely to reach a new agreement on working conditions and functions for all the forest and environmental agents in Galicia? Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u234	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u235	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. First of all, I wanted to begin my intervention by making an express recognition, as it cannot be otherwise, to the work so important that environmental agents do, the forest agents for the Greek administration, which is actually for society itself. And they do it, in addition, in many areas: in the protection of the environment, so important for Galicia, but also in the protection of property and people in the prevention and extinction of forest fires. And I'm going to look in the name of the three advisories, and as the German Government, of course, for giving all the information so that you stay calm and know from the very first hand that there are no closed negotiations, that negotiations are continued and that, in addition, they advance at the right pace. And I hope that's good for the collective and good for society in general. Look, I would like to point out that in 2016 we have already taken a very important step after the meeting of the Rural Council with trade union organizations. And the collective receives support to promote a specific training process, as you pointed out in your intervention, so that agents can achieve the qualification that allows them to access the new scale of technical agents in environmental management of group B, which is created in Galicia Public Employment Act in 2015. And so let me also remind you that with the date of September 15, 2016, if you sign by the trade union organizations and by the Galician Union an agreement on the effectiveness schedule to be able to reach this new scale, since some of the agents did not have the right title to access. There we put ourselves to work, and we started that process, being one of whom the College of Education and Colleges — they are four advisors — has launched a specific procedure for professional experience recognition agents. This procedure, in which about two hundred agents participated, does not imply a mere declaration of intent, but involves a budgetary commitment, which was fundamental to the development of this activity of about four hundred thousand euros. And it also involves a commitment by the officials of the Education Council. So it was a government commitment that was going to become effective. At this first agreement, the training to be able to achieve the necessary titration and, therefore, to be on the scale that they demanded, is added another process, which is that of internal promotion. Internal promotion that takes place, and so has been signed and will be carried out at the moment at which 40% of the collective obtains the title necessary to be able to do that internal promotion. But yet there was already a training process, there was already a selective process. And it wasn't who the Business Council could get ahead of the internal promotion because we didn't get that 40%. But we're not going to stop here and we're going to continue a new training process, because that's the intention of the Government, and that's also the intention of the trade unions so that the whole collective has the same possibilities. And in that sense, training. Training in this case, in addition, with new developments in order to give them greater ease, which is that distance training, which would not be included at first. In the last week of this June, the University Education and Ordination Council will transfer the training offer to the 2018-2019 academic course. And here's why try to get 40% to choose later on the process that has to be brought forward by the Public Service. Therefore, you can't say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are failing, because not only once but two are willing to compromise personal and material means so that our agents can effect the internal promotion agreed. In this process we are all involved: agents are involved, administration is involved, trade union organizations are involved, and I am absolutely sure that you too, and besides showing anxiety through being here today, because they are also involved. The rest of the terms of the agreement signed in 2016 — whether it was unknown or not enough information — as I said before — is not a breach, but it cannot be carried out. I'm sure next year will come and they will be able to do it. The achievement of this goal is very important, that is, internal promotion is very important, that they already go to their scale is very important, because it has an impact on something fundamental, which is a remuneration improvement deserved by forest and environmental agents, and which means an increase of two thousand euros a year only on what is the base salary. Meetings and contacts with forest agents have been constantly and continuously maintained throughout this process, either in a council office, in another council office, and then with a maximum organization through the Public Service. Thirdly, I have to tell you that we will resume by the Directorate-General for Public Service the negotiations that have already been resumed and are being carried out to establish the new working conditions of the agents. And so, on May 3, 2018, a meeting was held with trade union organizations and, as a result of this negotiation, a proposal was transferred to them, where substantially increases were established at the target complement level for the years 2018-2020, the modification of the 2005 order on working conditions, as well as the creation of a working group to develop the regulation of the new scale of agents. On May 30, 2018, the allegations made by agrarian organizations, which have already been studied and evaluated by the Public Service, were received in the Directorate-General for Civil Service, as you said. This proposal, the beginning of the Civil Service, meant at least, for remunerative effects, an increase of more than two thousand euros per agent and year. And that together with the two thousand euros that assumed their integration on the scale, we would be talking about at least a remuneration increase of four thousand euros per agent and year. And — I assure you — that proposal simply to clarify what process we are in, because sometimes it can be a bit overwhelming: to talk about improving the conditions, two thousand, and on a scale another two thousand. That is, on the one hand, we're talking about raising two levels of staff jobs, which is an increase in the period 2019-2020 of an average of a thousand euros per cash. And, on the other hand, to raise by 50% the content of the productivity supplement that agents perceive during the high risk period of forest fires, which would range from 200 and fifty-five euros a month to 300 and eighty-three, to make a total annual increase of one thousand and two hundred euros. At the meeting held on June 18th -- that is, only two days ago -- between the Directorate-General for Public Service and the trade union organizations, in which the Rural Council was also present -- it was advanced in the sense of reducing the high-risk period that was previously proposed to it from six months to four months, so that this staff could better reconcile their work but also their family reconciliation, with the possibility of exceptionally increasing one more month in case of emergency. In addition, it was proposed to increase productivity remuneration to four hundred and forty-eight euros a month and to study an increase in job levels or specific complement. Together, you could assume an average increase of two thousand and five hundred euros per cash. It has also advanced in the sense of making a proposal for working conditions that replaces the 2005 vignettes, which is not really that they are out of place, because at that time they were made by order, and there is a rule stipulated, and we must not take the mistake at the time of saying: no, it is that what was signed in 2005 is no longer right. In addition to the wage increases offered, the Rural Media Council is working to improve the training and working conditions of the staff. So, on the one hand, they will deliver mobile phones with 5 gigs data bonus, mobile and fixed calls from the autonomous community up to 500 minutes/month, and calls to cost-free short corporate extensions and without counting in those five hundred minutes. The wage improvement offered is complemented by other improvements and commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u237	...that the administration — and I will end up — acquires for the benefit of the collective. On the one hand, it offers the possibility that night shifts may not have to be physically located, but also a regulation of the functions of the new scale of technical agents in environmental management. Well, then in the replica I'll give you more of the other actions you're doing, as well as the Rural Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u238	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u239	Well, Counsellor, let's be glad they put their duties on the Town Hall and Public Service Council because it's important. Because when a process of these characteristics has to be shared by four advisors -- as we're talking about -- we know that one of the four advisors is going to pilot the negotiation process, which is going to be the General Public Service Directorate, and public employees know how the General Public Service Directorate pilots collective bargaining processes. And the example that we live or that the more than 2,000 public servants of Justice have lived is there. So, in that sense, if the Rural Council, as I say, to a lesser extent the Environment and Education Council, in its part, are above precisely that the Public Service meets the objectives of negotiation, it might be a guarantee, but we don't all have with us some of the experiences. Because he was talking about how the processes of improving the basic wage of forest and environmental agents would depend on the promotion processes, which in turn depend on the training processes. And these are processes that, once Education succeeds in developing those curricula, it has to convene and develop the Public Service. And the Public Service — because there are already many of the processes promised even legally in the laws of promotion, functionalization and consolidation measures — is not being able to carry out virtually any further. So, if we rely on these management capabilities of these processes, they have to be -- of course -- in the highly vigilant Rural Middle Council. But on the one hand, one thing is to facilitate the processes of promotion or integration on the new scale, and another different issue is to take forward the agreements of working conditions that regulate all these issues, and in some of them it was alluding, right? And in that sense, we are also concerned about a question that we have been discussing both in the area of emergencies and in the area of forest policy analysis and forest fire management, which is precisely the fragmentation of services and operations. I want to say with this that for the Socialist Parliamentary Group — and I suppose that for all groups in the House — it is essential to take these processes forward, to take them to a good port. Because we're going to have to try — and I believe the Government of Greece — to reduce the fragmentation of operations and services that intervene in forest fires, from forest brigades to urban firefighters, to supra-municipal emergency groups, to municipal brigades and even to UME. And by the way, by talking about operations and facilitated devices, we would also insist on a question: that they ensure proper coordination of Tetra communication systems in the different operations that intervene in the fires. It's also a question that could be raised in parenthesis, because it would have to be treated in a sectoral way as well on this point. Counsellor, the 2005 agreement, of course, may say it wasn't expired, etc.; it's a formulation, it's an assortment that makes the Public Service Directorate. But it is true that this 2005 agreement is absolutely outdated or expired since the new scale was formed. Apart from taking into account another issue, that is, the entire forest fire device, the technical management function of a forest fire cannot also absorb all the regulation of functions and working conditions precisely from forest and environmental agents. We must not forget precisely all the functions that must be developed in matters of mountains and nature conservation. I, by setting an example of an equally fundamental issue, returning to the forest brigades, ask you to give us an answer that forecasts have precisely to provide jobs and forest research in the different districts. Because without leaving the province of Ourense, where of the 50,000 hectares burned in October, twenty-two thousand were burned in the districts of Ourense, in the 11th district, there is no investigative agent; in the 12th district, only one agent; in the 13th district, Counsellor, an agent; in the 14th district, two officers, not dedicated exclusively to research; and in the 15th district, an agent, who had just begun. It is not anecdotal, it is a fundamental commitment that the Government of Greece has to carry out a good job not only of prevention, not only of extinction, but of research into the reasons for forest fires, which is framed throughout this negotiation and modification of the corresponding employment relationships to effectively equip the necessary posts. There are certain issues you have referred to, we hope that those issues addressed not only in the base balance but also in other plugins and other working conditions reach the port that you are announcing, because in that sense are fundamental issues certain approvals of the specific complement with the progressiveity in terms of incorporation that must be done with the coastguard scales. It's a fundamental theme, and you know perfectly well in the middle of the countryside, I don't know if in the civil service, they're not admissible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u241	...the six months of extraordinary work. Go to the model three plus one, three months the critical summer period plus one of availability, might be a point of arrival. We have to talk, of course, about the rise of the complement of fate. They certainly have a good deal recently allocated in the Community of Madrid; they can look in that mirror, not in other mirrors of the Community of Madrid. And, ultimately, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u242	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u243	...and finished, Mr President—the scales and collectives of forest and environmental agents cannot continue to be anchored in an organizational and functional model of the 1990s precisely in the face of a problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u245	...environmental and forest fires of a new generation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u247	Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u248	Thank you. Close the interrogation, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u249	Thank you very much, President. Believe me, gentlemen, everything I've told you will be a compliment. And at no time do we break negotiations or dialogue, but quite the opposite. We do so by the different advisories, coordinated by one -- as it should be -- but we'll still get the best for the agents, but the normal thing for what society itself is. So, on the one hand, training, and we don't fail anymore, because we have 400,000 euros to give them specific training. After training you have to come to internal promotion. We couldn't be able, because we didn't reach 40%. We hope that it will not be 40%, but that next year with greater facilities and not only face-to-face training, but also distance training, everyone will be able to have the corresponding title. And there will be the need — believe me — for internal promotion to be done and for everyone to be on the scale they deserve. This government is still committed to a new definition of the working conditions of the agents. And, as I've already stated, we're continuously holding meetings, meetings in areas and in other areas. Representatives of the Directorate-General for Public Service and trade union organizations, of course, attended the Rural Media Council. And in it we move forward, and we move not only in three and one, but we were in six months and we spent four months, because it's four months where the staff is now going to be hired in a period of risk, which, although today it's published that it's three months, and indeed administratively it's July, August and September, we're moving forward in one more month. So the staff of the Galician board hired for three months will be four months, just as will the staff who is hired through Tragsa and Seaga. With which it wouldn't make much sense that we'd talk at the level of environmental agents of three plus one, when we're actually talking about four, and so here we're talking about four plus one. In addition, I insist that productivity wages should be increased to EUR 440 and EUR 8 per month and study an increase in job levels and/or specific supplement levels. Together, improvements that could mean an average increase of EUR 2 billion per cash. And why do we do all that? On the one hand, because there is a commitment from the Government, because we know of the essential role and commitment of environmental agents and the work they do throughout the territory. And we know they're defending their interests legitimately as well. They don't doubt, therefore, that from this government we're not going to stop until we reach an agreement, until we get to negotiate. And we will strive to, in the end, hold our hand and that they work with taste and society, in addition, that they perceive it. To provide them with even more training, the Galician Union will continue to provide them with the necessary training to obtain that qualification. But in addition to all this, I want to point out that, apart from 8.7% of the increase between 2018 and 2020, there are the increases that we are currently making. And to this you have to add that you have to have cars, you have to have PPE needed to develop your work. And there we are also making a great effort; it was 3.5 million euros in vehicles for this collective this year. And I'll tell them that tomorrow morning, they'll be delivered to environmental agents a total of thirty-six new property cars, 4x4, and a total of 500 tables so they can effectively develop their work. Besides, like renting, but being young, of course, they rented eighty-eight vehicles, also 4x4, and 20 other types of tourism. That's budget, that's availability that puts the Middle Rural Council in the hands of environmental agents, because we know about their work. So we understand that we have to work on several issues: on the one hand, we have to recognise their work and on the other hand, apart from recognition, that that is an increase in their payroll and, at the same time, they work with complete certainty. Therefore, make everything possible available, including PPE. And don't worry about it, because failures may be everywhere, but the Tetra network is one of Europe's most advanced ones. And I hope it will be fully effective for this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u250	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the seventh item on the agenda, questions to the Government. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. de In Marea, about the information issued by CRTVG in relation to the citizen demonstration held on 10 June 2018 in Santiago de Compostela, against the reopening of the mine in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u251	We started with the question of Mrs. Ángeles Cuña, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. We came here to talk about the demonstration against the Touro-O Pino mine and its treatment on the TVG. On June 10th, ten days ago, the news address on Telexornal lasted four minutes and eighteen seconds. In the historic demonstration against poisoned inheritance, in the demonstration against megaminy of large multinationals with copper fever, more than 30,000 people, neighbouring platform, PDR, more than thirty municipalities, more than one hundred twenty organizations, platforms, collectives and associations across Galicia, all political and trade union forces, in the TVG no mass media. We have rights, rights about our resources: water, land, forests. We don't want lead, we don't want arsenic, we don't want heavy metals. We know what we're talking about. No more pollution. TVG refers to the law of the Bipartite. TVG does not speak of the Law of Predation; a good example of the complicity and servitude of its party. We're talking about the pre-mobilisation of networks, the mine platform, along with the company's campaign for the project. It's the opinion of Junta. TVG does not speak of Atalaya Mining, local brand Copper San Rafael; CEO Alberto Lavandeira, who comes from the Swiss multinational Glencore. Television doesn't say Glencore accumulates hundreds of allegations of human rights violations and murders, even of activists in Peru, the Philippines, Colombia, Congo and Zambia. TVG doesn't say it wants to take advantage of the wealth of our land. Different international funds, five countries with different percentages: I invest two hundred million euros and I earn two billion euros. Good business! What do you say and don't say to TVG, Mr. Rueda? We are faced with another case of information manipulation, increased by the suppression of local disconnections and the Cultural Journal scheduled for September. Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media, is not being developed, and is failing, among others, the obligation to create an information council of the CRTVG. We asked ourselves, why didn't images from the rally set be issued? Do you consider it appropriate to refer to the fact that the law governing mining activity in Galicia is of the Bipartite? Do you consider putting at the same level the video of the critical campaign Walk along with the video favorable to the project driven by Copper San Rafael itself? Do you consider it appropriate to put the opinion of the Board and not give a voice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u254	...the political forces of the opposition in the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u255	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u256	How long are you gonna keep numbing CRTVG?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u257	No, no, sorry, it's time, eh! [[Murmurs.]] Response by the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, you are in your group, and you yourself, of course, are in your right, and I am obliged to come to answer these kinds of questions, which in my opinion — and I am also right to say it — is a small obsession that there is no freedom of information and that it is said exactly in the contents of the public media what you would like to say, saying exactly what to say. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] This question — of course, I don't interpret it like this, and in that key I'm going to answer it— doesn't go about the Touro mine, it goes on to your conviction that freedom of expression is something that can be shaped by its political convenience; it doesn't exist as such, freedom of expression dies. What's of interest is to say what I'd like it to be said. And if you didn't say that, I don't like it, and so let the government come to explain why public media professionals don't say what you'd like them to say. This is the content of your question, this is exactly what led you to bring them here the Government to respond to why a public media professional was not lynched because he had written an article that you didn't like what he was saying, why we didn't intervene to change a programming, a programming advance, which has already announced that you don't like what it is going to be and, therefore, that the Government intervenes on TV and changes it, and now we're discussing the content of a specific information that you don't like. And you've already told us here exactly how it was supposed to be, and that it had to be exactly like that. Here's a discussion of the duration, order... by the way, the first news you say in your question, was the PP's successor crisis. Of course, if Galician TV hadn't talked about the PP's successor crisis, perhaps he was here responding to why Galician TV didn't give any importance to the PP's successor crisis. The question was the first, but he didn't like the order either. He probably wouldn't like it even if it was the other way around. We discussed the images, we discussed the contents, we discussed everything at all. This is your information model. I'm going to answer for the third time, and if you follow with this obsession I'm going to follow the truth, which is that the public media professionals have freedom to do their work, Mrs. Cuña, lords of the tides of Podemos. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u259	Mr. Lake, be quiet. Mr. Lago, I call you by order. [[Murmurs.]] I'll call you in order, Mr. Lago. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u260	I understand that they get very nervous because they don't like to hear that there's freedom of expression so that professionals do exactly what they have to do. This is the truth. Of course, you come from a party -- I told you in the other two answers, I have to tell you again -- which said when you were talking about forming government in Spain: you take the Ministry of Finance, you take Tourism, you leave me the TV set, to mold them, to say what they have to say and to see if we're ideologicalizing everything, and that's what we're doing politics. That's exactly your model, Mrs. Cuña, that's exactly the model of the tides of Podemos. [[Murmurs.]] That's the model of lack of respect for public television media...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u261	Thank you very much, Vice President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u262	...and this government will go on for so much that you become obsessed with that subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u263	Thank you, your time is up. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u264	Yes, two minutes, two themes: one, mine to Touro; two, means. Mina de Touro: Lavender, speculator, liar, sicario, with experience in Katanga mines, former president of Narcea River — a company with the rights of Corcoesto — denounced because the air around Riotinto exceeded ten times the normal levels of arsenic. The devil tends to hell, indeed. How do you behave? They appear to contribute to the development. Strategy of the divide and you'll win, especially between the neighborhood. They offer some jobs; they don't say how many can be lost and at what price. They say zero in pollution; they don't believe it. They have short legs like the lies you tell, but they'll run away. They're predators, yes, no scruples. They won't clean up, business is business. They were desisting to stop the mobilizations. They're few and they make a lot of noise, Mr. Lavandeira said, hiding the high real risk. There are reports. It denies that the Ulla River belongs to the Natura Network—a hallucinating!—of biodiversity conservation, which leads to the Arousa River, Europe's main seafood bank. Mind about the Way, too. They tend to have political, economic, lawyers and media equipment, and they are based on laws and political friends. Let's hope Mr. Tahoces meets the law, and so do you. They forget their people and their land. They silence and ignore the neighbors and neighbors of Touro and O Pino. They show their contempt for society as a whole. With regard to the means you say, models. Of course we have different models, we have since the legislation began by asking for a plural, plural and transparent public television model. But they're the journalists and CRTVG workers in their fourth black Fridays, full and full of the situation they live in, those who manifest themselves demanding the creation of the briefing board. So, if you've heard well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u266	...gives the manipulation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u268	Sorry, the last one, just.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u269	No, it's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u270	He's given time, he's got the same measuring stick.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u271	No, no, I left nothing. No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u272	It had the same measuring stick. Okay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u273	In time, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u274	...suspend. Yesterday they resigned because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u275	No, it's over, it's over. Your time is up. Time's up, Mrs. Cuña. It's over. Close the question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, you don't need to get so angry in your question, that I understand perfectly what you're going on; it's just as much as saying that I'm legitimized. If you talk in the public and in the private media about Mr. Villares having the worst crisis in his party, I think they give him little importance, and I have to say they move him in the grill. And it would be legitimized because in his subjective opinion, the Government can do whatever it wants with the public. That's what you would do if you got to the government. [[Murmurs.]] Because I don't like what the news reports say, if I'm in government, that's what I'm here to explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u277	Mrs. Cuña, Mrs. Cuña, silence! Mrs. Cuña, be quiet. If not, I have to call her in order. Silence! Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] No, you're interrupting. Now he's in the use of the word. Quiet, quiet, quiet. [[Madam Cuña Bóveda utters words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you've already spoken. Silence! [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Santos, don't start now. [[Murmurs.]] I don't have a problem, huh! [[Balbordo.]] None, none. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you don't provoke, you don't provoke. Don't provoke me, please! Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u278	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, how can I not answer your question? Your question is why the government doesn't like what the media say in the news doesn't call on the phone and change them. That's the question you ask. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why not change the order?, why not change the images?, why not change the contents?, why not change the duration? Why don't you do exactly the press notes on the tides of Podemos, which is what you're telling us, which would have to have the information? You know why we don't? Because we believe in the freedom of the media and in professionals. [[Murmurs.]] I know that this gives you a lot of grace, to you, to Mrs. Santos, who is sitting next to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u279	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u280	The Madrid Press Association demands that we — we will talk about your seniors, then we have talked about you — "let the stigmatized campaign of personal harassment, which is being carried out against professionals of different means, those who dread and threaten when they disagree with your information." If in the end they repeat behaviors, they repeat behaviors. [[Murmurs.]] There's no need to go to Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u281	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u282	You don't have to go to Madrid; we go here, Galicia, the Touro mine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u283	Silence! Quiet. Mr. Cal, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u284	Europe what?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u285	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u286	I am not going to say the name of the honourable Member because she sits next to him, because they know him well, but that Member who sits next to him, on his left: "He has rebuked the media that covered the press conference that the questions addressed the internal news of the instrumental party and deviated from the subject on which she had gone to answer there, the Touro mine." They were asking him about something he didn't like. Therefore, media representatives were missing. A failure of respect, just like you do when you tell me to phone so the contents can be changed. It's exactly the same. EFE Agency: "I have a confrontation with journalists. During the Question Time, this Member has refused to answer those related to issues of her party and has recriminalized the present" — i.e., professional two media — "not to be questioned by those matters which motivated the call". I mean, they didn't ask her exactly what she wanted to answer and then they reflected exactly what you wanted. [[Murmurs.]] This is your model, Mrs. Cuña, this is the model of the tides of Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u287	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u288	...this is the model of picking up you ministries and leaving me the TV news. This is the model that says once again that luck has the Greeks and the Greeks and the media professionals that you don't govern and don't do the information. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u289	Thank you, Vice President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u290	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u291	Next question. Question by da Sandra Vázquez Domínguez and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about services and help lines that are being made available to entrepreneurs to facilitate the early creation or consolidation of new companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u292	You have the word "Martha Nuvoa Iglesias" from the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u293	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, starting a business and undertaking is very different from managing a company or working for it. I know him first-hand because I come from a family of entrepreneurs, and I know about the commitment and the challenges that lead to the decision to address a business project that allows you to enter the market, either manufacturing a product or providing a service. The People's Party presented the elections of the year 2016 with an electoral program that had important support measures focused on young people and girls with a business vocation. An electoral program with proposals that gave the right answer to the new entrepreneurs who are meant to explore new business lines, especially in industrial and rural areas. The People's Group remains committed to the detailed philosophy of our electoral program. The news was the destruction of a thousand hundred daily jobs in Spain; the news was the continuous closure of companies and micro-enterprises; the news was that the Socialist Party was once again ruling in Spain; and the news was, gentlemen, the beating of all the records of destruction of employment throughout the history of our country. Today, the news is that the Socialist Party is once again ruling Spain, but after a government of the People's Party that has managed to reverse all these disastrous data, causing the news today to create a thousand seven hundred daily jobs in our country. Success, ladies and gentlemen, which was achieved mainly by ambitious labour reform, example for many other European countries and which was opposed by the Socialist Party at that time, but which will now only suffer cosmetic changes with the new Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez. In Galicia, Counsellor, the data are even better, and the community in which unemployment has fallen most continuously in recent years, in addition to being export leaders, which is a symptom of the good German business tissue muscle. Counsellor, we all know that these good results are achieved thanks to the support of this government to a German industrial sector, and especially to the creators of new companies, such as entrepreneurs. That support is not valid only for words, it is demonstrated by funding and by orders of help. More and more companies decide to set up their business in Galicia, especially because of the possibilities that the government offers in this community. For all this, I ask you, Counsellor: what are the aids that are available to entrepreneurs to facilitate the creation of new companies or for the early consolidation of new businesses in our community? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Nóvoa, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to address in this Chamber the situation of industrial policy, of government entrepreneurship policy and, therefore, directly what impact it can have on job creation and the creation of quality employment. Because an industrial policy and a solid entrepreneurship policy is precisely a source of wealth creation and, above all, of job creation and quality employment. In fact, the Government is working on an impulse to entrepreneurship, a change in the culture of entrepreneurship, in some ways to respond to the needs of the new economy, a well-founded and talent-based economy, creativity, innovation, and, therefore, how different products can be brought into the market and how new processes can be promoted to improve competitiveness. That means supporting entrepreneurship, supporting innovation, and therefore working so that no new project, no viable project remains in it, in a project, and that we can therefore take it to the market. And to bring it to the market, support policies are needed, funding policies too. And that's exactly what we're working on, in support of entrepreneurship projects, especially through this generation of a new culture, working with projects in coworking spaces, accelerators, incubators that we're developing in collaboration with different institutions. We can talk about collaboration through the School of Industrial Organization, where we have eight initiatives that are allowing us to take these initiatives to rural areas and smaller municipalities. Also this collaboration with the Vigo Free Zone, in the development of the Business Factory Auto, which is promoting a new generation of automotive companies. We can also talk about the ICT sector, with collaboration with Telefónica, through Galicia Open Future, and Vodafone, with Connecting for Good. Or the new drug incubator in collaboration with Kaertor and Janssen. Finally, there are six hundred projects which we support and which are allowing the development of new jobs, in particular a thousand jobs. We are also developing funding support, especially venture capital. We are the third community with the largest number of operations. And other programs like Galicia Mil, where we have supported three thousand hundred projects to mobilise 500 million euros in the new initiatives that can be promoted in the coming years. And that Galicia Entrepreneur program, which in the next edition will mobilise 11 million euros by boosting eighty projects. Finally, support for the new entrepreneurship and innovation ecosystem, by betting and resourceling new opportunities and, above all, the responses of new projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u296	Thank you, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u297	...entrepreneurs and innovators.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u298	Thanks, time's up. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u299	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. It is clear that for this government and for the People's Group the industrial sector is key. We know that it is essential to lay the foundations and generate the perfect climate or conditions to attract business fabric. For the People's Party all business initiatives are welcome and everyone is given, as it cannot be otherwise, as the law indicates, the opportunity to present their project and, if feasible, with all the guarantees that the law allows, that it can start its activity. This is what a group, a government and a responsible party do, not what the rest of the opposition gentlemen do. Because as you will know, Counsellor, the most important thing for the opposition lords is to ensure that no kind of business initiative is implemented in Galicia. Counsellor, the gentlemen of the BNG and the tides of Podemos have two fundamental objectives in the business field: objective 1, closing existing companies; objective 2, preventing any new ones from opening up. Your initiatives, Counselor... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u300	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u301	...they're closing the thermal power stations, not building any wind farms in our community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u302	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u303	...that companies that treat our community as PSA-Citroën cannot grow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u304	Mr. Lake, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u305	...that she closes Ence, that she closes Elnosa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u306	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u307	This, Counselor, is what we hear every day in this parliament. Because, Counselor, they don't want Galicia's economic growth, because the worse it's going to Galicia, they think they'd better go to them. Last year we passed an important law, the Business Implementation Act, with key measures so that the industrial fabric of our community can grow. And since it couldn't be otherwise, the municipalities have to be key parts to attracting companies to their territory. My county, the industrial council of Ourense province for antonomasia, did not hesitate to join this initiative. That is why in this turn of action, Counsellor, I would ask you to give us the answer to this initiative, the Doing Business Councils initiative, of the rest of Galician municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u308	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Close, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, indeed, when we talk about entrepreneurship and innovation, we have to talk about cultural change, new initiatives to support these types of projects, but these support to this funding policy must also be accompanied by the greatest administrative facilities. Therefore, administrations, both of the Galician Union and the municipalities themselves, have to work together to give as many facilities as possible; administrative facilities, tax facilities and access to the business ground. And the Business Implementation Act, which was approved by this government at the end of 2017, was accompanied by an agreement with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces precisely to facilitate that the municipalities that are committed to industry and that support industrial development could establish an alliance with the Galician Union to provide greater administrative agility and, above all, to provide tax incentives for Galician industrial development. The municipalities, therefore, become a key piece in order to offer more opportunities to business investment. And the Greek municipalities have this opportunity through the Doing Business agreement that the Galician Union has signed with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, by giving them the specific data, there are one hundred and twenty-eight of the Greek municipalities that are interested in the seal of the Enterprise Town Hall; an entrepreneur Town Hall seal that establishes tax bonuses up to 95% in local taxes and also establishes greater access to industrial soil. That's the spirit that has to move us to administrations in administrative simplification and tax reductions. However, there's another important data, especially to move this camera, and it's that three out of four business councils are governed by the People's Party. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that there has to be a commitment by all political groups to commit themselves to industry, because not to collaborate with industrial development simply inflexible any political group that wants to talk about jobs and quality jobs. There is an agreement between the Galician Union and the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to facilitate industrial development. And I take this opportunity to make this call to all political groups and municipalities to join this agreement. And, therefore, since institutional collaboration, we have given them the greatest possibilities to develop industry in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u310	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the attention to the social demands expressed in the mobilization of June 10, 2018 in Santiago de Compostela claiming the denial of the mining project for the extraction of copper in the municipalities of Touro and Pino
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u311	Mr. Rivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, on the 10th day, the Open Square was small to accommodate the thousands of people who, raising their voice, claimed the right to life for them and for the children of their children's children. A high percentage of those people who see very closely the threat of the megaminery project attended for the first time a demonstration; they were seen in their faces and in the decision of their eyes. People from the banks of the jungle of the Ulla and nearby territories, simple people who don't easily manifest themselves. Because in his balance he weighs more the sustainability of the territory that goes from Touro to Aguiño than the millionaire business of a sporadic company that won't generate wealth, say what propaganda says. And all those people who see the present threatened and the future of theirs want to know, ask themselves ten days later if you and your government have taken note and plan to do something for their lives and endeavors. Because those people are aware that they don't get enough of the laws, that they have to tell them with screams so they won't twist. Because those people already know you're not trustworthy. He knows they've been hiding vital information about the mine for months. You know that in the last ten years, of the thirty peaks that have stopped at the mine, there have been analytics and that the waters are not reliable, neither the underground nor the surface. They're also not to trust you, that ruling didn't want to see what was there, because what scares them, what makes them raise their voice and blackmail them to the face is the consciousness that you, knowing what was hiding there, didn't move a finger in their defense, no awareness of the company, no warning. Nothing, nothing, they turned their faces to the other side despising the life and health of the affected population. They've missed their duty, they've got government concession in time of expiry. These people know it, and they know it well, because the sector reports are clear, and the threats there and the farms as well. Thousands of jobs are in danger, from the dairy farms of highlands to the marine crops of the river, and also the drinking water of more than a dozen municipalities drinking from the Ulla. It's the health of the territory. So it's not serious to talk about jobs when financial interests open their mouths to disguise reality creates. And these people now, knowing that there is, they demand more. They demand the restoration of the space abandoned by the miners and then by the ones they used to store tons and tons of toxic waste, without control, without control! So on Sunday, June 10, they came to Compostela, and they asked him the question that you should answer today: will they respond to the social cry expressed in the mobilization of Sunday 10, claiming the denial of the Touro-O Pino mining project?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u313	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, Mr. Rivas, is that I thought and trusted his rigor, his usual rigor, but I see that he is unfortunately contaging himself from the irresponsible speech of his fellows, and I regret that he brought that irresponsibility to a subject as serious as the Touro mine. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm telling you this because what's not serious, Mr. Rivas, is to pretend from your position in this parliament to generate social alarm, and it's not serious to come forward with a series of accusations and misinformation about the project we're talking about. And I'm telling you this from the absolute point of view, but by moving it with all the continuance that your premises are simply uncertain and that they are not based on objective information, and that you — and I am conveying it with all the respect — talk of hiding information. You yourself have asked this government for information about the Touro mine, and you haven't been consulted. It's funny that you ask for information and don't consult it. That's what's happening with other associations, who also ask for information, but they're not going to consult. [[Murmurs.]] Curious of that way of transferring reliable information here! That's yes: generate social alarm, disinformation and simply bring uncertain premises here. First, Mr. Rivas, the water analysts of Galicia rule out any kind of condition of the eye derived from mining. That's exactly the data. So anything else is just trying to confuse citizenship freely on this subject. Secondly, the Council of Galicia clearly takes note of social sensitivities. But you, in the use of your parliamentary status, know that the first thing that any responsible government has to do is simply comply with the law. And your concern should be precisely that this government abides by the law, which is what you are doing, abide by the law, in addition to the law that you yourself have passed. And you know that the project will not be approved if there are no favourable reports and if there is no positive environmental impact statement. You know it because you gave it to the law, and this government will comply with it. The Galician Nationalist Block clearly has a background to a position against mining. You've changed your position, we don't know why. I'm the only one that I'll transfer to you is that if you just stick to the truth, bring true information here, and that, of course, if you want any kind of information about the technical aspects, I can transfer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u315	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u316	Counselor, I know we don't have a certificate of moral and religious good conduct as it used to be, but I'm going to tell you something true with all the cordiality: their falsehood today has crossed the limits possible. [[Applause]] Because you denied me information about the mine, you denied me! And he only made it easy for me a couple of months ago, sending me a paper saying that, well, he was there with the meat in his mouth, to check all the volume of information that you've been amassing to collapse us. [[Applause]] No, we're not idiots, we're not idiots. And lately he's sent me into two cedes; lately, there's only fifteen days. So I can't be informed, Counselor, if you hide information. And keep it on hold. Like they shut down the TV and the radio so you don't know. You're hiding information! You are the bite of this country! [[Applause]] And I'm going to tell you more: as for the responsibility of a government, the responsibility of a government -- and I'm telling you for the last time -- is to take care of its administrators, and here the interests of jobs are in people who are going to suffer from megamining. You go that way, you go around the land of the mine clandestinely, which is how you see it; go there, smell, see and then think. And he'll come scared and change his mind, as everyone who goes there changes. And I say more: look at the towers of the Cathedral of Santiago and see the volume of that wall, which is going to have one hundred and twenty-six hectares of sterile rafts, which are threatening the entire territory of the Ulla bowl. And I don't tell him anything else, because I think it's -- and forgive me the word -- idiot, because you don't open your ears; you're... you're gonna say like those... I'm not saying. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u317	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Close the question, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Rivas, it is noted that they do not really have any interest in information about the mine, it is found that this government is actually making available to all citizens, and you are logically a Member who has the right to all information as well as the rest of the citizens, and both citizens and you have access to that information. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, this government is acting with total transparency, providing and transferring all the information through its services of the Territorial Xefature. [[Laughter]] And I'm sorry that when you talk about mining, you just do it from ideology, and that's very hard to say seriously. Because his ideology is just an ideology that's against mining. And that's logically all about it. And they should probably explain it to the 300 companies, mostly small and medium-sized enterprises based in this community, to the 5,000 direct and indirect jobs because you're against mining. Probably because of that ideological conception, which curiously changed. Because when they were in government they were in favor of mining, they passed a law, approved 100 farm projects, approved research projects, and were in favor of them. Now it turns out that they're in opposition, they change, and their ideology reminds them that they have to be against mining. Look, Your Honor, the Galician Union is not promoting any projects. The Council of Galicia is the only thing it is doing is to process an application, which under the law we will give it that procedure and act with complete transparency, and at all times we will respond to that request in accordance with the law. So that project will have to meet all the requirements that can be marked by sectoral reports on the environmental impact declaration, and if it does not, it will not be approved. Don't have the slightest doubt. Meanwhile, I believe that the Galician Nationalist Block must stop making ideology in this parliament and refer to the enforcement of the law, and surely be informed by the very information that transfers this council to it, and not just come here to generate social alarm. [[Murmurs.]] Because that's why the Greeks won't appreciate it and won't recognize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u319	Thank you, Counselor. Ask Mr. Anton Sánchez, who isn't. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Today is a complex day and I've just been wrong, because these questions are welcome. I've had a bad day, it's normal, we can't have a bad day. You'll know it wasn't a good day for the president, it wasn't a good day. So, I've been having a bad day. And that could happen to anyone. I was wrong. I apologize. Question of Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and eight other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia to further advance in the process of unfolding and conversion of the Nadela-Sarria corridor by highway
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u320	You have a word for Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u321	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, one of the most significant advances in the past legislation on the improvement of road infrastructure in the province of Lugo, has been the service of the corridor that joins the capital with the towns of Sarria and Monforte, since the new high-benefit route has contributed to vertebrate and communicate the south of the province of Lugo; an old claim from different sectors of society, both of the capital of the province and of the localities of the south of it. The project, designed by the German Government, foresees the technical and structural conditions for further progress on this goal, and more specifically for converting the current corridor into a highway. The People's Party led the proposal to activate the highway conversion of this corridor, establishing as a priority to start this process of unfolding at a length of 11.5 kilometers between the link of the center Sarria and the roundabout The Poor Saint Xiao Paramoso. The Board agreed to start the work by this frame because it is one of the ones that supports a higher traffic intensity (an average of 6,600 vehicles daily) and also presents a lower level of service for the smallest possibilities of advance. Recently, the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, a board-dependent agency, has contributed EUR 170,610 to the drafting of the construction project to carry out this work. In this way, the German Government continues to bet on efficient and sustainable infrastructure, designed to think about people and the best service to track users. The Union is committed to communications that strengthen the competitiveness of the territory and improve the lives of the Greeks and serve as a boost to support the engines of recovery and employment, increasing opportunities for social and territorial cohesion. Most of the traffic using the LU-546 road was absorbed by this corridor. His conversion to the bus is, moreover, an old demand from all over the country. From the People's Group, Counsellor, we would like you to answer to us about the forecasts that the Government of Greece is managing to move forward in the process of unfolding and converting the Nadela-Sarria corridor by bus. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u323	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, since the bet on territorial rebalancing and inner vertebration of Galicia has certainly been a constant in recent years since Galicia's infrastructure union, which has been translated into other issues, such as the important impulse in road infrastructures again drawn to communicate the interior and — as I said — for the inner cohesion of Galicia and for more opportunities. And one of those key infrastructures in Galicia is the high-performance route between Sarria and Monforte. In November 2015 we completed that corridor, built by truces: in October 2012, in service Sarria-O Home; Boveda-Monforte, in service in October 2015; and also opened to traffic, in November 2015, that third The Incio-Boveda. It is an important milestone to be served by this high-performance pathway to improve mobility and improve the vertebration of Galician interiors, and, above all, the reinforcement of road safety between Lugo and the capital of Lemos, which are connected in 45 minutes. Of course, as evidenced by the efforts to provide more and better infrastructure within Galicia, this is an example; a great effort, for in full economic crisis — I insist — was EUR 135 million intended for these three truces to put them on duty from the Galician Union. It was a decisive step to improve road safety, to improve communications. And we continue to work to increase, above all, the functionality of this high-performance pathway. And that's why early in 2017 we called for the drafting of that mapping project, that environmental impact drafting and that construction project of a first phase, the first phase of the deployment of the high-performance route Nadela-Sarria, in the third stage between the link in the Poor of San Xiao and Sarria-centro; an auto conversion that was planned since the start of the performance. The set-up of this truce is really very technically justified, mainly by the increase in traffic. If we compared it to the average increase in Galician traffic, the increase in the routes of the autonomic network was 2%, and this third over the last two years has increased by 10%. That's why we decided to start the unfolding of these 11.5 kilometers of priority between the Poor of San Xiao and Sarria-center, in which we have detected that it is the most priority in relation to pronounced orography and pendants, which soon considerably diminish the possibilities of advance, and therefore competitive as regards times of journey. What did he do to us? To prioritise, to move forward in the administrative procedures of this decoupling of this route of high benefit, important to vertebrate the interior of Galicia. And so at the beginning of this June, we started a public information process, where all stakeholders can make their approaches. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u324	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u325	Thank you very much, Counselor, for the explanations and for conveying us so clearly and so precisely the bet the Government of Greece is making for the territorial rebalancing and the inner vertebration of Galicia. To the province of Lugo, and more specifically to the southern part of the province, are very good news this has just passed on to us. We are seeing achievements, executions and fulfillments of promises. We continue to see the Government of the People's Party trajectory, which, as our president so often says, the Government of the PP speaks by doing, and not, as we are accustomed to listening often to the opposition, saying that this government does advertising and propaganda. This answer shows that the movement is moving. Counsellor, I thank you personally, as a Member of the Province of Lugo, for your efforts to improve the travel network in our province. On the other hand, I know you're doing the same thing in the entire Greek community. But we would like to be able to realise — if this is possible — the deadlines that you manage from the Council, so effectively, for the realization of this unfoldment and to be able to convert this third of what we are talking about, which is so complicated, by highway, given that, as you tell us, it is a work that is not exempt from difficulties, since we are in Galicia, where the orography is complex — which you have also said in your intervention — and there are also several links of communication and population in this third that goes from the Poor of St. James to Sarria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Close this question, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u327	Thank you, President. Madam Friend, because the last step we have taken — as I have said — was last 4 June, the public information of the plot project for the deployment of the route of high-performance Nadela-Sarria, in the priority third The Poor of San Xiao-Sarria-center; public information is also needed for expropriatory purposes and therefore also progressing in the expropriatory matter; and also, simultaneously, to advance administrative procedures, we are processing the environmental impact statement. As I said, it's an infrastructure whose deployment is planned from the beginning. And, therefore, during the construction, the dismantling, the structures were already prepared, so that it was easier and more feasible, more feasible to unfold this high-performance route. Double footing, therefore, will be easier. The doubling of the shoe will be by the left margin in the direction Sarria; a project that foresees adaptations in existing links, which know there are three: the poor of San Xiao, the northern Sarria and the center Sarria. Extended the six lower steps, the cross-link fauna steps, the upper steps do not need to be expanded, because they are already enlarged from the start of the corridor construction. A road conversion which will involve an investment by the Galician Board of 23 million euros — estimated data and approximated with the project of tracing and drafting. Therefore, EUR 23 million to improve road safety in this area, physically separating the senses of movement, eliminating advances by invading the opposite lane and increasing the spaces for damaged vehicles. And so 23 million euros to improve the functionality of this road and also the improvement of the service, 23 million euros to reduce the journey time between Lugo and Sarria and increase the capacity and therefore also the convenience of drivers. At this point, we have public information on the project, as I said, which ends on July 13. We're waiting for the arrivals. Once we look at the approach, we estimate approving this project this same summer, with the next goal of drafting the constructive project and counting on the constructive project and also approving it in the first half of 2019, and therefore being willing to move forward in that work. A new impulse, therefore, in essential infrastructures for territorial balance, with enormous efforts since 2009. Because we've been a government in which two hundred miles of high-performance routes have been put into service since the year 2009, in full economic crisis, without a single fee. So we continue to move towards the improvement of functionality and high-performance pathways, at Morrazo, at Brión-Noia, also around the highway of the Costa da Morte and, of course, at Sarria-Monforte. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u328	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the possible offer by the Galician Union to the Council of Ourense of some alternative to celebrate this year the Festival of International Cinema of Ourenses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u329	Whenever you want, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u330	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, for twenty-two years now, he's been celebrating the International Film Festival in Ourense. It is organized by the Council, but it is true that the Council of Galicia has been working economically in the past few years, every year. This event was, or is -- we don't know very well yet -- very prestigious within our Autonomous Community and also outside, and mainly because it's a referee of independent Ibero-American cinema and also of lusophone cinema. In May of this year, we knew — not through the Town Hall but from the team that organized this festival — that the festival was on the edge of the abyss; this happened five months after it had to be celebrated. They said from the Town Hall — or they say — that the blame is for that Law of contracts that was passed in November and that it had four months — and I want to highlight it — until its entry into force in March 2018, so that everyone would get up to date on this subject. The ways to try to solve it were many — it seems — many. In the first moment, the Councillor of Culture found it necessary to convene a contest; this was done when the mayor of Ourense was in China; the mayor returned from China and the mayor said that he couldn't convene the contest, that he didn't give time and that he wouldn't be viable. Then it seemed to him that there could be a collaboration from the MP, from which until now we know absolutely nothing at all. What you've been giving in these last few weeks is the base of occurrences that come out of the Mayor's office for improvisation and mismanagement. Management is so bad that even the professionals themselves, both the artistic director and the executive producer, have resigned this same week; two people who have done it -- and I mean from here, on behalf of the Socialist Group -- a great job and who have all our recognition, people who, like the TVG presenters -- although for different reasons -- have resigned for their professionalism and dignity. These people have been working, supposedly, all these months without any kind of contract, and that's why the Socialist Group in the Council of Ourense pushed an investigation commission. The safest thing today is that this festival cannot be celebrated. This is a very tough varapao for the entire audiovisual sector of our Autonomous Community to promote the cinema made in Galicia — which, as you know, is defeated in the cinemas — is also to be a meeting place and is also for a city with a already reduced cultural offer and also for those who visit us to be ambassadors of the cultural heritage that has the city and province. We didn't know anything about you all this time and we want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u332	...know if he'll do anything about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u333	Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, the truth is, you're asking me if I'm going to do something about it on a purely technical and administrative matter, as you put it. And the truth is, sometimes it's difficult to explain the obvious. And what is happening in this case with this festival and this recruitment process is absolutely obvious. I understand that you, like me, mean your group, just like the Government of the Union — like the government of the city of Ourense — will either comply with or have to comply with the current regulations on public procurement. I suppose that will be a point where we agree. And what we are talking about is basically the need to modify a recruitment process to organize this dispute. Why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u335	There's something wrong there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u336	I didn't go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u337	Let's try to switch seats, shall we? Go to the next seat, let's see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u338	It's working again, isn't it? Now it's working well again. Well, then he said: Why is it necessary? —it's like old TVs: you hit them and they work. Why should this recruitment procedure be amended? For a fairly simple and quite obvious reason: by the entry into force last year of a law, the Public Sector Contracts Act, which ultimately is to transpose directives from both the European Parliament and the Commission into the Spanish legal system. So, obviously, we have to adapt to the recruitment regulations. They have to do all public administrations, of course the Council of Ourense too, and that's what the Council of Ourense is doing in this area. This film contest, as you well said, is organized and managed by the Council of Ourense and has the support of the Board for its celebration, as long as it is complied with by the vigorating legislation, obviously. And basically, the Town Hall is adapting the procedures and, as far as we know, we have knowledge, there is a manifest desire from the Town Hall to bring this event forward, this dispute. Obviously, once that fight is underway, under the current normative umbrella, it will have the collaboration of the Board, as it has always had; without any doubt, it will have the support of the Board in this field. From here the question, in the end, a little by answering your question, that is, what are you going to do, what will you do to Junta? The Board will support the Council of Ourense as organizer of this event. Who has the responsibility to hire this event, because it's an event driven by the city for many years now, is the Town Hall itself. With which, from there, you ask me what I'm going to do about a sovereign decision of another public administration and I understand that you will understand that we do not expropriate the will of the Council of Ourense and that we respect its autonomy. Because I can also ask you, rhetorically, politically, whether you're in favour of the festival or not and whether it's being celebrated on the basis of the current legislation. I understand that your answer is positive, just as it will be positive to our answer in this field. With which we will support the Council of Ourense, as we have always done, and we hope that they will be able to take a technical matter forward...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u339	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u340	...vested to a recruitment process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u341	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u342	Thank you very much, President. "He made it promises more institutional support and involvement with the Italian cinema." I know you know when this headline came, because he was the president of the Galician board when he came to the film festival. Now we see that days of a long time, on the eve of nothing. Counsellor, by the way, look, in Ourense there are many things or there have been so far since they arrived late from Madrid, but, as this honourable Member and this group knows, the BOE is always coming in time and form. With which, when this law was published more than six months ago -- and more than two months ago it came into force -- I say that someone would notice himself or should realize that he had to make changes in contracts. There's an improvisation -- and I'm going to repeat it -- completely and absolutely by the mayor of Ourense, which is nothing more than the fruit of his mismanagement of all these years and also on this subject. I understand you're defending him; he's the only mayor of the People's Party of the seven great Greek cities. My mother, my dear God, if we ever pass this to any mayor or mayor of ours. I also understand that he defends it because, after all, he's the one who gave him the relief, because it must be remembered that Mr. Vázquez was a cultural advisor before you. The fact is that we have an irresponsible mayor who puts at risk a fundamental, essential event for the world of culture throughout the Autonomous Community and that you say you will not do anything at all, that may be the first mayor — and they have passed, Mr. Counsellor, regents of different political colors — who put at risk, and can make history Mr. Jesus Vázquez too. What we ask you to do is stop being a makeup director of this incompetence saga that is carrying out the mayor of Ourense and that is considered, that it becomes a producer of solutions that guarantee the continuity and survival of a festival that — I repeat — is very important and that we want it to continue. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Peche, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u344	Well, Mrs. Blanco, of course the goal of your question was to speak ill of the mayor of Ourense. I don't know if you're doing any merit to present yourself in Ourense on the Socialist Party list or if you somehow have little confidence in your municipal group. [[Murmurs.]] We don't know, because you've really been here talking fully and clearly about the mayor of Ourense and then getting the festival out of control. [[Applause]] Well, I think, if this goes on, it'll do a lot of credit for the list of the People's Party... — I'm sorry — of the Socialist Party in the city of Ourense; I think it's very good. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] But well, look, you also say that Ourense has arrived a lot late from Madrid. Your political party now has a magnificent opportunity for things not to arrive late in Madrid, especially one that now depends on your party. Let's hope the Socialist Party doesn't delay the VA to Ourense and doesn't have any kind of reprisals for being a city governed by a party that isn't yours. Because you're here talking about us and the others, and that's really something you don't understand how you should understand, Mrs. Blanco. In any case, as a teacher and as a teacher, in his proof of opposition to the mayor of Ourense and the opponent to the municipal list of the Orensan municipal group I give him the approval, and surely that's what you were looking for; you can go quietly to your city. [[Murmurs.]] Well, in any case, let's go to the specific question of the festival. And I'm going to tell you that the Galician Union has supported and will always support this festival. It has a protocol of agreement with the Town Hall on top of the table by Agadic of 40,000 euros. He also has help from the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy. We also have 5,000 euros devoted to activities with the most children. I mean, there's got to be a collaboration and there's going to be, without any doubt, with the Ourense festival, because we understand it's a good cultural activity. But you'll have to understand that you can't expropriate and you can't usurp autonomy in this case of a council, you can't, because if you had done so, you'd be saying that you're usurping municipal autonomy in this case. And you talk about the audiovisual sector and you put Mr. Feijóo -- let's say -- a communication of yours, a statement of yours. Today I was with Mr. Feijó at a very important audiovisual event, the Connecta Fiction, which was held just a few meters away from here, which is an international festival of high-level character, to see that this government supports the audiovisual sector, just like a week ago we approved an action linked to a production or movie or television series or to the Santiago Road, with an extremely important economic contribution so that we can promote the Way and also push what is in this case the audiovisual industry. A few days ago, we just approved aid from Agadic for more than two million euros to produce 13 audiovisual productions. And you're here to say that you don't support audio-visual.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u345	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u346	Well, I don't think he did it right there. And, on the other hand, Mrs. White, you continue to oppose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u347	Your time is over, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u348	...to be an opponent in the Council of Ourense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u349	Thank you. Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, from G.P. of In Marea, on the grounds of suppression as declarable, in the aid of common agricultural policy, of shrubs and grassland
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u350	Whenever you want, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u351	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counsellor, good afternoon. At the beginning of the 20th century in our country there were more than 2 million cattle, of sheep and goats, who were directly managed by their owners. These little ruminants are the best-equipped animals to consume herbaceous and shrubous resources, so abundant and poorly exploited in our country, and they can live almost exclusively from this pasture and the bush branch. These herds had their own uniqueness in the high mountain areas, with the neighbours or with the community herds, large herds in the greenhouse areas that were grazing in high and often inaccessible areas. Many are the causes of their disappearance, but we must also take into account their advantages, as it passes from a perfect adaptation to the environment, their resistance to disease and their longevity to the environmental work they perform. Today in Galicia there are only 229,000 head of sheep and goat cattle, distributed on 21,000 gainful farms, of which only 76 have more than 250 head of cattle. In 2015 one unilaterally applied a removal to the shrubs and tree grassland pasture declared by the landowners and landowners in the CAP. This affected 85% of the entire territory, so that all enclosures with less than 3,000 square meters were reassigned with an admissibility coefficient equal to zero. This also implied that this CAP area declaration would mark what was the first year of commitments for the 2015-2020 RDP period, limiting the payment for use of that entire area, unless it had been alleged. This also implied, above all, that, paradoxically, in the recent Law on buses the European Commission has recognized the singularity of this use we have here in our country with pastoral care, and suppresses the obligation to consolidate what is the herbaceous species, reducing only the consolidation of the pastoral care on that surface, which is the reason for En Marea's proposals. The Commission's proposal, tabled on 29 November, did not present a radical paradigm change in the concept of the CAP, but rather introduced elements that leave States or regions to define or redefine much its application within their territories. With these elements, the Commission proposes clear agreed objectives at European Union and regional level; that is, it proposes to define the objectives to be achieved by the CAP at European Union level and also in each territory and a general framework for intervention. From En Marea we defend this kind of woody, bushy species as a basis for food. So we want to ask you to see what was the reason for suppressing the shrubs and grassland pastures that can be declared in the CAP aid, as if they exist in other autonomous communities — which is the nicest thing to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u352	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u353	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Davide, when you talk about the CAP, we have to talk about regulation of the European Union and therefore we have to talk about legal imperative, we have to talk about seriousness and therefore we also have to talk about audits. And we have an obligation, and that obligation is to fulfill. What did Galicia do? I'll buy it. But what did Galicia do, too? To put on the table something that we both agree with, and we agree on the importance of pastures, not only herbaceous, but also shrubs, and we agree that it is essential to have cattle like sheep, goats and horses or cows of certain species, which feed not only on these grasses, but also on shrubs. But what's going on? That there is a regulation and that regulation is dated December 17, 2013 and it has established the admissibility of permanent pasture always and when there was a predominance of herbaceous species over shrubs. In this way, initially — and, as I say, by normative imperative — they were assigned a pasture eligibility coefficient — the so-called CAP — equal to zero to all the shrubs and trees in which they were not given the condition that they had predominated the grass on the bush. There was an audit, an audit in which the European Commission in 2014 throughout the state sanctioned Spain with 280 million euros and Galicia with 7.7 million euros. So you'll understand that here we have to make a determination and, therefore, obey that legal imperative. That doesn't mean we'll stick together. I myself, accompanied by my team and with reports that made the sector easier, moved to Brussels and there we put the disagreement that we had in this area on the table and, therefore, that we had to make certain changes, that we are glad that they are now collected and that we have the option, through the Rules of Procedure, that the people who dedicate themselves in the field to grazing actually have or can opt for a greater coefficient of eligibility as far as the pasture is concerned. But as I said to them, 280 million euros in an audit, Galicia 7.7 million euros, which, of course, we resort to, because we understand that this penalty is very exaggerated, but that we are now awaiting the resolution once the oral hearing has already been held at the European Union's Court of Justice and we have been represented by the EGF. Following this audit, there was a review of the admissibility coefficient and, therefore, it was differentiated between pastries, shrubs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u354	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u355	...and treed pastures and it was there when the determination was made...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u356	He's got another shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u357	...but it was made for consistency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u358	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u359	Yes, thank you. Well, what is the new approach to the common agricultural policy — and, moreover, as you have just acknowledged — with the recently published Omnibus Law, will give us the opportunity to make a suit tailored to our needs, to the needs of the Greeks, but also to the political will, which is what we often miss this advice. The Ministry has also stated clearly that its position will be to defend a plan at the national level and everything points to whether it will either try to slip the bulk or either seek any argument to avoid losing power in the control of piers, both in the 1st and in the 2nd. This model of application presents, in addition to this great opportunity, two challenges. The first is that you treasure the vision and the ability to draw up these documents. They open up the discussion at the Greek level of what model of support if they want for our agriculture and for our livestock, which they're probably going to have to spend many times managing to have these diverse interests and views of the agricultural model we want to develop, but I think it's a good opportunity to do it, whenever you have political will. And the next question I wanted to ask you, since you told me earlier what the reason was, is if you've thought of the Rural Middle Council including the shrubs and grass on declarable trees in the CAP aids, as they have -- I repeat -- other autonomous communities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u360	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Close this question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u361	Thank you, Mr. President. I suppose, Mr Davide or Mr Rodríguez, which will refer to the strategic plan that we have to develop at the national level now towards the next CAP. Of course, we are waiting for the guidelines after the first meeting we had with the minister and after we got to know and recognize the work that the previous minister, Isabel Tejerina, had done, in which there were many countries that have already signed the document, in which we agreed; I think now there are fourteen countries where we cannot lose funding at the level of the European Union. As I told you, a determination is taken, taken as a legal imperative, after there is an audit, after having a sanction on top, that we hope that at the end it will reach the good port, and those pastures are suppressed less than 3,000 square meters. And why are they suppressed? Because 90% of these crops have not been declared in the CAP in the last five years. That's why they were suppressed, because they were in a state of abandonment and because they didn't predominate the herbaceous part on the shrub. Now the bus regulation actually gives us the reason, for you and us, that we set it out in September in Brussels. And what I can commit to is that in this CAP, each of these requests will be reviewed above and they can get higher coefficient increases, even in those pastures less than 3,000 square meters but that meet the conditions. And in that sense, we bet — and so we will do it in the strategic plan — for something fundamental, that are the indigenous races. I mean, it's the horse, it's the cows, it's the goats, it's the sheep, which are fundamental to the environment, which are fundamental too -- you're, besides, a great professional -- to avoid the fires and, besides, because there's a proper brand that defends Ovica very well. And, therefore, we need to continue to hold hands so that we have more and more people, especially new people, who, like in the past two years, incorporate themselves into the rural world, the agricultural world, the greedy world and do it in an area where we have to praise their work, which is that of the shepherd. It's an economic good for Galicia, but it's a fundamental good for the environment as well. So we're going to do a recalculation of what's been up to now, and, having the possibility, we'll keep fighting for the toxo or carcass to be also recognized as fundamental food for our own...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u362	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u363	...autochthonous races.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u364	Thank you, Counselor, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-20-DSPG077.u366	Thank you. Before we finish the whole thing, I'd like to comment on two things. One. Thank all the workers and workers of both the People's Valedor and the Council of Auditors and Parliament, and also the Members and the Members of Parliament for the campaign of melanoma. It was a success and I think Parliament is moving a healthy message of protection, and that is to thank you. It was more than a hundred people who went through that recognition. The idea was: healthy message. That's why, thank you. I think that's a very well-known thing for Parliament and people. I walk in many places and this is something you like. Other things that happen in Parliament don't like, but that's what we'll think about in a different way; that's what we'll think about, we've got time. Second. We'll have time, we'll all think about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I promise you I will. Second. The Celanova Prize, House of Poets, was granted to Parliament. It is a prize of great prestige and you grant it by the involvement in the Lusophony, by its cultural implication — yes, yes, there it is, and the jury knows it, you know who's around it — and by opening up to society; mechanisms that are worthy of all those who have gone through here. [[Murmurs.]] So it's good that you give us prizes, you better get prizes that give us other things. Then we'll pick up the prize and you'll all be invited. And I, like those of the Curros Enríquez Foundation, would like you to be there that day. They will also be given the appropriate invitation. And nothing else. Finish the full. Good afternoon.
