ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Murmurs.]] Good morning again. We resume the session with agenda item 5, questions for the president's oral answer. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding complaints of health personnel, associations of patients, trade unions, health platforms and medical schools relating to the deterioration and privatization of public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u3	We are almost going to allow Members and Members to be incorporated. Well, very good morning, Mr. Feijó. If something concerns citizenship, it's the state of public health, and you're becoming a danger to people's health. The question that motivates this question is the serious deterioration that is taking place in primary care and, in particular, the situation of the CAPs in our country. The new reality of the CAP is seen last August when a person died in Galicia in 2018 at an emergency center where there was no doctor to help her. And his lack of response, his escape forward, makes us have the CAP staff on strike today. Have you bothered to read any of the open cards you published? Let me read to him: "The lack of staff causes one doctor to have to take care of the job for which two staff would already be insufficient. The CAP is in a situation of saving who can and the worst is that it's not a matter of time." But instead of recognizing this reality, you prefer to place yourself in that comfortable role as a prophet of post-verity and tell us that health was never better, even though you cut 2 billion euros into primary care and cut professionals into the public system. This is the way you understand the defense of public health. We've seen him these days too with Povervisa, that example of a rotational door manual. And if they don't ask Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, he jumps from Povervisa to the councillor's office, jumps to Galaria, and the person in Galaria jumps to Povervisa. A whole host of interests exudes you who are paying professional and/or sick, Mr. Feijóo. We're asking for light and tachographs with Povervisa. Because you're responsible for a private company blackmailing 149,000 users and 1,400 professionals. Mr Feijóo, another health policy is possible and enough to correct it, because when correct it is correct. He just made it clear with that march back in that falcatrode who wanted to commit to leaving this country without primary pediatricians, putting people's health at risk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] When they correct it, and we ask you to correct everything you have to do with the CAP, too, because that's going to be the best policy you can make in health matters. We have made three proposals since the BNG: first, to listen to the CAP professionals, who are leaving the skin to maintain the quality of care of primary care that you crush; secondly, to end with the precariousness and supply of the human and technical means necessary all and each of the CAPs of this country with objective criteria, with sufficient staff and with agreed criteria; and finally, thirdly, we want a primary care improvement plan that is given at least 200 million euros more for the coming year. Rectify, Mr Feijóo, because rectification is wise and you have a lot to correct in health policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, Mrs. Pontón, to apologize at the outset for starting with a sentence from the recent debate on the state of Autonomy. I said, "making people believe that living in the worst parts of the world is the food of frustration, and frustration is the food of populism." Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry that you come back here again with an apocalyptic vision of Galician health. Yes, you seem to like frustration, because it feeds on your own populism. I will not deny that in all public health systems of universal coverage in Europe there are problems, of course. But what if I submit to your consideration is a double comparison: tell me when public health in Galicia was better and tell me where in Spain public health is better. That double comparison is what I propose. Also in that debate in the state of Autonomy I asked, "What time in Galicia's history was public health better?" No spokesman answered, not because the question was difficult to answer, but simply because the answer is never. Public health has never been better in Galicia than it is now, despite all the inconveniences. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, never before seven of every ten Greeks we lived in a health area with a new or renewed hospital. Never before in Galicia has there been less waiting for general surgeries. Never before in Galicia did more outpatient surgery. Never before in Galicia have more external consultations been held. Never before in Galicia have more diagnostic tests been done in hospitals. Never before in Galicia has there been a Law on the guarantee of deadlines, thirty-three thousand six hundred patients were admitted to this law — by the way, all operated in the public sector. Never before, Your Honor, there have been rapid pathways to certain cancers, 17 thousand beneficiaries in 2017. Your Honor, there have never been so many places in hospitals before, 67% more, more than a hundred places in hospitals before. Your Honor, you have never done so much before in technology investment, seventy-seven million euros. Your Honor, never before in Galicia there were phone calls so that a person could make a consultation with his head doctor, two and a half million consultations in 2017. Never before in Galicia has there been a follow-up since the surgical intervention and the discharge of a hospital to the primary care center, 22,000 consultations in 2017. By the way, never before, 061 was better rated. Your Honor, it is true that our country's public health system has never been better before; it is also true, Your Honor, that there have never been as many lies as there is now. For example, you participated — together with the Socialist Party, of course — in the massive lie that Vigo's hospital was a private hospital. He hasn't yet apologized to PSOE or BNG for deceiving all Vigo. Never before, Your Honor, you said you'd make a warrant for waiting lists to promote the private. Summary, thirty-two thousand six hundred interventions, all in public hospitals. Your Honor, you have never told so many lies in Parliament before. And what's surprising is that you come back with another, with the theme of Povervisa. It's funny, Your Honor, do you have any problems with the previous Bipartite? But if you were already part of this Parliament! Don't you know that the high offices of the Bipartite were all from Povisa? I've already told you in the debate about the state of Autonomy! [[Murmurs.]] Two general directors of the Health Council were directors of Povervisa. And now it turns out, Your Honor, that these two general directors are managing private hospitals in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u7	But, Mrs. Pontón, stop lying and let's talk about our country's public health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u8	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u9	Mr. Feijóo, listening to you, we have come to the conclusion that the two billion euros that you have cut to primary care have sat on you wonderful, that professional cuts are the best proposal for things to improve in public health, and that there is absolutely no problem here. In fact, the privatization of Vigo's hospital does not exist either. You are, of course, the prophet president of post-verity and is clearly set up to believe your own lies. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, today there's more waiting list than when you got to Galician Union; and I'm not telling you, it's the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. The last barometer from the CIS tells us that the Galicians and the Greeks are the ones who value the health system the worst, the third by the tail when assessing the health system. And the latest report by the Federation of Health Associations says that the assessment of Welsh health in terms of quality falls, we fell from number eight to number eleven. And, of course, you come here too to say that health professionals lie; and, in particular, that the CAP professionals, who are here today following this debate, also lie in their communiqués and what they are moving us to all groups. Let me read you some of the last communiqué you sent, a statement you're reporting that you're violating the essential minimum services that mark in the CAP, that you're not even able to cover them. Last week they were uncovered in Moaña, Cangas, Guarda, Parda, Coruña and Cambados. They set up minimum services and are not even capable of covering them. Do you know what the Sergas workers and workers tell you?: "Sergas does not put real solutions to this lack of coverage. What it does is to limit the request for a holiday, deny permission, force the blow of a bureaufax, call from time to time for unforeseen absences or invent new forms of contract more precariously demanding to be at Sergas's disposal, overburdening staff and limiting the possibilities of employment and family reconciliation." In primary care, staff have been reduced significantly, given the same number of populations with much less personal staff, and at the same time, they see their functions increased from day to day. It is necessary for the Administration to listen to the demands of the CAP collective, very basic demands —din — call for "an equalization in conditions to the rest of Sergas' health personnel and to create contingency plans to ensure coverage in staff conditions."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u11	It's over, Mr. President. Only half a minute. You have on the table a strike from the staff of the CAP and come here uniquely and exclusively to make opposition from the opposition. The workers are here, are you going to meet when you get out of this Chamber and really listen to what you're proposing? And finally, Mr. Feijóo, the problem with Povervisa will have you, which is your government who uses the rotating doors. And it's your government that will tell us why you planned Vigo's health area to continue to hold a concert with which a company makes great profits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u13	Therefore, seriousness and rigour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u15	And answer questions once and for all, with respect to this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u17	...and don't come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u18	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u19	...to oppose the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u20	Thank you. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u21	You're wrong about government, Mrs. Pontón. It was his government that did nothing in Vigo's health area for four years. Not even a constructive project. [[Applause]] Not even a square meter of expropriation. [[Applause]] You guys in four years haven't done anything in Vigo's health area. [[Applause]] And we in the middle of economic crisis did the best public hospital that was done in Spain. That's the difference between you and us. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, I know... we know everyone in Galicia — as you can imagine — the associations you refer to, the communications you refer to. But, of course, when we look at who is behind the federations, associations and spokespersons of each of them, because we find ourselves the usual one: the assistance charges of the two-party government. Yes, yes; yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] The spokesperson for one of them is nothing but the member of the general coordinator of En Marea in Pontevedra. And another one who talks about the hospital's assistant director at a time in the Bipartite. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mrs. Pontón, who do you want to fool? If he was full of high-ranking Bipartite positions when they managed health, and the workers must know that when the Bipartite managed health the concerteds, the money we paid the Greeks in concert, had increased by 44%, and now the money we paid in concert dropped by 4%. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, why do you keep fooling the workers? Mrs Pontón, we have made over 6,000 public job offers in full economic crisis, more than six thousand in health care. Now we have 5,000 squares signed with trade union organizations. The advisor has just said that this year 2018 we will once again take out another public job offer. We have just signed with all the unions, except one, the professional career, and that means that everyone, including those of the CAP, will increase their salaries — in addition to 9% of all public employees — 6% more, 15% more in pay. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, we are talking to all the workers, of course all the workers are or are not in accordance with certain organizational principles, and with the CAP we are talking and we will continue to talk, Mrs. Pontón, you have no doubt. You try not to manipulate the workers of the CAP and not come here as a union link, but as a representative of all the Greeks. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, yes, you dedicated yourself to defending Galician public health and not denigrating Galician public health, dedicated yourself to that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, when we got to Junta, there wasn't a single colon cancer pilot. I'm interested in that. When we arrived at Junta, there was no cervix cancer seizure. We're interested in that. When we came together, the magnetic nuclear resonances and mammographs were obsolete. There were some accelerators that didn't perform their functions, and you managed Galicia with more money than ever and left linear accelerators that didn't perform the radiation function of cancer patients' tissues. And what we had to do is put those linear accelerators back together. Mrs. Pontón, look, the truth is that it doesn't matter what you say, nor even what I say, the truth is written in budgets: EUR 3,985 million, the public health budget of 2019; EUR 4 billion, Your Honor. But he's still writing. Look, Your Honor, 10 million euros to Ferrol's hospital, 12 million euros to the new hospital in Pontevedra, 12 million euros to health centers, and we're building 50 and we're going to do 20 more. A million and a half to the medical school in Santiago, a million and a half to continue working at the Barbanza Hospital. We'll continue to expand the Marine Hospital. We will continue and complete the work of the Salnés Hospital. We'll continue to build a new hospital in Ourense. We'll keep doing in the neighborhood...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u23	...from Residence in Lugo a health center. Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, what you say about public health will have all the respect of the world, what I'm interested in is what the Greeks think. Once again, the CIS survey is manipulated again; the CIS survey says that since the year 2002, public health has never been valued as it is now. The Greeks never rated public health better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u25	That's not what you say or I say, that's what the Greeks say, to those I owe. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u26	Thank you, President. Question by Dr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of the degree of compliance with the forecasts of the MOVE Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u27	Good morning. Galicia, we all know, is a small country, also in population, has a deconcentrated, dispersed habitat, so mobility is a collective need to weigh more, to gain scale, but it's also a need for many families, many citizens, to improve their well-being and many businesses to gain competitiveness. You promoted the MOVE Plan adopted in November 2010, the date I think it's important, because it's still hanging on the corresponding board page today. I'll give you a date. The infrastructure auction, between 2011 and 2017, was four hundred and twenty-five million euros by its administration. The MOVE Plan foresees for the period 2011-2015 two thousand six hundred million in road bidding, then it had other categories. With great generosity we can say that it was executed, given that there were some works already started at that time, between 25% and 30% of the plan, we can be generous and say that it was about this. You guys who have assumed a unique financial situation in the whole of the autonomous Spanish communities, don't you see what remains to be done in projects with social profitability enough to advance a little more and more decisively than they are doing? Because if so, why don't you do it that way, why don't you rush him? The MOVE Plan had several criteria that seem right to us. One of the criteria was that more than 80% of the population was less than ten minutes from a high-performance route. What is the percentage that meets these conditions today? I also had another criterion that seems fundamental to us, which is to allocate 3% of the cost of infrastructure to maintenance, in a broad sense. And it predicts about 90 million euros a year. The latest figures we've seen, from 2017, speak of thirty and so many million, a little more than a third of what was planned. I don't know if this seems to you to guarantee the proper maintenance of the infrastructure. And he had a third criterion, which was to simplify the system of fees so that it would stop being the shore a barrier that makes mobility difficult for people in Galicia. And he planned to spend a little more than four million euros each year. And you in 2017 allocated half a million euros on the German highways for this matter. You have to explain to the citizens why you promised that in 2015 – you are there in the MOVE Plan – you could go on a high-performance track of the Coruña to Cee, from the Road to Santiago de Compostela, from Tui to the Guard, from Ferrol to the Barqueiro or from Nadela to Sarria on a double track, and still today we are far from that. Or why in 2017, which has already happened, we could go from Ferrol to San Cibran or Chantada to Lalin by a bus and today we are far from that. And so, then, we can go and incorporate other missing infrastructures and there's no trace. What you propose for the year next in the budgets that are already registered in this Parliament is to reduce the amount that will be devoted to the construction of new road infrastructures. And we are proposing, on the contrary, to mobilize all possible resources, all possible, to move forward one year towards achieving the forecasts of the MOVE Plan which today are very late and gain in mobility, as a quality of life, therefore, and in competitiveness for businesses in the whole of Galicia. We believe that it is possible and we believe that it should be committed to this, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u28	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u29	Mr. Leicega, I'm glad you like the MOVE Plan, we're going to talk about its execution, if you like. Indeed, just after arriving at the government in September 2009 -- by the way, then you will remember that we were in Spain where there was no economic crisis, but a small downturn -- we presented a mobility plan that was a strategic vision of what we wanted to do in the country. It was certainly an ambitious plan. First conclusion: we can't do it, we have to admit it. And why don't we do it? Your Honor, you know very well why we don't do it. First of all, because the Budgets of the Union were absolutely painted; secondly, because we were in the biggest economic crisis that we have remembered in recent decades; and thirdly, it seems to you, because you have left debt to the Council of Galicia, and especially in the field of infrastructure. They left everything unpaid. All the highways you did without paying and left you more than a billion euros in concession that we are paying year by year, year by year and year by year. Why don't you tell me about it, Mr. Leicega? Imagine what we could do with a billion euros that left the duty of all the highways that you opened. In addition, nine hundred million were left to work in the gestures. Imagine we could do one of the billion debt they left in the concessions plus the nine hundred million they left in the gestures. In addition, we were left 2,175 million euros of the negative liquidations that we are paying to the State Administration year by year. Ma'am, do you know what you left in the field of infrastructures and the negative liquidations without paying? Five billion euros. Do you know how much we've paid for these years? Two thousand seven hundred million euros. Do you know what it was like to have two thousand seven hundred million euros in infrastructure? That would give us time to do the MOVE Plan in its entirety and to be now with the second MOVE Plan of Galician infrastructures. Mr. Leicega, I think the Greeks have the right to know all this. Yes, Your Honor. Anyway, I'm gonna give you some good news. Eighty percent of the Greeks today, 80 percent, we live less than fifteen minutes on a highway or high-capacity road. I think it's good news. And I think, in addition, Your Honor, that you ignore a question: we've changed the MOVE Plan immediately that we realized the hole in 2008, they've already left a hole in 2008. When the Ministry of Socialist Affairs communicates to us the opening of the year 2008, we add to it the year 2009 and we immediately present the modification of the MOVE Plan. You read the press just like me. I want to read to you a holder of El Faro de Vigo, dated September 11, 2010: "The Board reprograms its public works planning for budgetary restrictions". Mr. Leicega, I'm going to give you another data that you must be interested in. Despite all this, we increase by 67% the number of miles in high capacity routes. If 80% of the Greeks live less than fifteen minutes on a highway or high-capacity road, and during the years of the economic crisis we increase by 67% the number of miles of high-capacity highways and highways, and yet we pay two billion euros of the debts that you have left us basically in infrastructure, don't you think that the Greeks have made a great effort in infrastructure? I think so, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] But you should, Your Honor, tell us about the infrastructure we've been running, but I'm sure it hasn't given you and I haven't, either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u31	...but I think it's not a bad plan to finish the Morrazo corridor, start the decoupling of the highway between Nadela and Sarria, continue on the expropriations between Brion and Girl... by the way, you who are from Noia, forty-five million euros was the connection for the first time to have a bridge that communicates the two shores of the sea. Why didn't you do a single mile about it? Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, I agree with you, we haven't been able to execute the MOVE Plan, so we've modified it, and despite that today we have 80% of the population of Greece less than fifteen minutes away from a bus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u32	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u33	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u34	Yes, apart from those accounts -- let's say of Antoineta la Fantastica -- let's say that to be shielded in the crisis like you do to say that they didn't fulfill the MOVE Plan is to tell a falsehood. The initial MOVE Plan has actually been adjusted, but I'm talking about what was approved in November 2010, you've been in government for years and a half, you already knew all this. [[Applause]] Moreover, the MOVE Plan highlights at its beginning: "It takes a new planning to adapt it to the budget availability for the next few years and optimize the economic resources that are destined for this type of infrastructure." That's what the advisor who presented the MOVE Plan in his own plan at that time said. You knew everything and yet you promised, in ten minutes, 80% of the population by 2015. And you recognize today that you didn't do this in the year two thousand -- almost -- nineteen. So there is something they have done wrong; either it was pure propaganda -- it's certainly so -- or either the counselor was far beyond what was planned, and perhaps it's in other tasks today. But allow me another thought. We're talking about the beaches. We've all worked hard enough to reduce taxes in metropolitan areas. The MOVE Plan used to say that. There was a need to reduce the rates on the highways that managed the Galician Union between Coruña and Carballo and between Vigo and Baiona. Do you know how much they pay today for the Greek people who use those suits? Exactly the same thing as at the time the MOVE Plan was approved said in that plan that it was excessive, that it was dissuasive and compromised families. Exactly the same today. So what I propose to you is that after that management that, turning around completely in ten years, takes us to the same place where we started in terms of fees, that you and we get to an agreement and, quickly, in the budget next year, that there are resources — if you want to tell us where we can get them from — it reduces by 20% of those rates linearly to meet what was planned in Plan MOVE in 2010 and then we do a study to homogenize the fees, because, for example, the neighbors of Nigeria pay much more to go from Nigeria to Baiona than it is reasonable to agree with the set of the fares of the highways. Let's homogeneize the rates and work to release that burden in the metropolitan areas. Let's go ahead with the infrastructure for a year and let's get the rates off gradually, starting with that 20% discount. That's what I propose, Mr. Noñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u35	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u36	Mr. Leicega says that it bothers him to talk about the stories, says that Antonita the Fantastic. No, no, Antoineta la Fantastica, no, it's because we had to pay a billion euros, plus sixty more that we put in this budget, that is, a billion euros from the accounts hole in 2008 and 2009. Do you think that's a fantastic Antoñita? Does it seem to you that she's an Antoñita the Fantastic that all Bipartite's buses have left in the shade? More than a billion euros, and that we've paid nearly four hundred million euros every year of the buses that you've made and haven't paid. Does Antoñita look fantastic leaving a hole of nine hundred million euros in the gestures? By the way, speaking of fees, why don't you say that the self-property roads of the Union have the cheapest toll in Spain? And now that it turns out that we're talking about the beach, you who now manage the Atlantic Highway, what is the fee you're talking about, Mr. Leicega?, about the self-sufficient central government competition, whatever the government you are at every moment. I've always talked about it, you're not anymore. Speaking of the beach of the Atlantic Highway, do you know how much money you left? Seven million euros of payment from the Greeks until 2048, subsidies from the toll of a state highway. You know what we got? The four hundred million Euros of budget for the Galician Union. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, what are we accused of? We're accused that when we got to the government there were 54% of Greeks covered by the Internet and consequently more than 40 percent of them without coverage. Do you know what that's called? Technological infrastructure. You know what we got? That 98% of the Greeks have Internet coverage, more than four hundred million euros invested. Do you know what it means to make public hospitals, expand them, renew them? Seven hundred million euros in health infrastructure. Mr Leicega, of course we prioritize public services, public health services, public education services, social public services, technologies and technological infrastructure and, of course, road infrastructure. The Morrazo corridor will be completed in the coming months, before the middle of the year 2019. As I told you, we auctioned the works in the second half of 2019 from Nadela to Sarria, but we had to pay between Sarria and Monforte. Your Honor, between Brión and Girl, we paid all the infrastructure connected, even to the bridge. And we're in the first phase of the deployment by drafting the project. Highway to the Coast of Death, why don't you tell me about it, Mr. Leicega? Zero miles when we get here. We made a highway on the Death Coast, we have to follow that bus. We made twenty-seven kilometers, you zero. Of course there's a big difference between twenty-seven and zero, there's a fundamental difference, Mr. Leicega. But I've left here the list of roads we've made since we got to Junta. In highways and high-capacity tracks, two hundred and eight kilometers, that's 67% more than there was in Galicia when we arrived at the government. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, on the way north we invested more than ninety million euros. I know you don't see it, but the Circulation of Ortigueira and the stretch in Lugo province cost us ninety-eight million euros. By the way, twice as much as it cost...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u38	...deployment of the Morrazo corridor. But we're going to continue to sort out roads in Ferrol. And by the way, we propose to the Socialist Party in Viveiro — I suppose you will support it — to build a bridge to cross the river, it is more than a hundred million euros. Are you voting in agreement at last? We presented five projects for the circavaluation. Now it's a bridge. Will they let us do the bridge or not? Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, do we want to make the Ártebra road in the Coruña, will they let us connect to the highway or will they not let us connect to the highway? Mr. Leicega, we paid for what you left duty and today there are 66% more than...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u40	...of miles of high-capacity track than we were when we got to the government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u41	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the measures committed by the Government of Greece in the crash plan against the forest fires that were actually carried out
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, coinciding with the debate on the state of the nation, was celebrated one year of the wave of fires that struck Galicia in October 2017. You taking advantage of that date said — after your advisors had made a series of announcements in previous days that twenty-two of the thirty measures you announced in Parliament in November 2017 were already met — explicitly that before the end of the year twenty-eight of the thirty measures you proposed in this chamber would be completed. That's why we wanted to ask you about those measures that are being carried out and those that have not yet been implemented. One year ago, on the occasion of that black Sunday of that fire wave, it was discovered a reality, the reality that the Government of Galician Union was on strike, in a strike of arms fallen for nine years, where they were completely concerned not only by forest policy, but — in general — by territorial policy, which led to the making of Galicia a great eucalyptal, dangerous to the population, and for the population not only of the rural environment, but of the whole territory, so it came to burn the center of the city of Vigo. You were also responsible, as a result of this strike of fallen arms, for the lack of coordination of available means, emergency services, forest firefighting services. And by the way, they didn't even have the ability — because of that fall-arm strike, with which they continued throughout this year — to coordinate the environmental restoration work and the help to the municipalities to arrive in real time, not only for the recovery of the environment, but also for the socio-economic recovery of the most damaged areas. With this mountain was burned forever, too, his image of good manager of Galicia's interests realized and artificially built with public money. And, of course, what came out of expression that night, and in subsequent days, is that in the face of his inability to respond to an emergency so that people, with their own hands, were able to go out defending the common good. One explicit recognition of this failure was that you had to come to this chamber to announce thirty measures to shorten that situation; thirty measures that we had already denounced, since En Marea, that many of them were simple enunciation of vigilant law, which was a bit strange. To announce as novelty something that was a simple law, for it left much to think of what the Government was doing until that moment. I am referring, on an enunciative basis, to which thirteen of the thirty measures were repetitions of applicable laws: action on parcels of unknown holder, incorporation into the Land Bank, or in the same sense as mountains in state of abandonment, protection tracks around electric stations, management of biomass and isolated dwellings, requirements for plantings less than 50 metres from the cores, campaigns for the dissemination of prevention and awareness-raising schools, impulse to management plans of nineteen forest districts, help for all mountains to have management instruments, the participation of parliamentary groups in the drafting of the forest plan or continue with partial restructuring. All this is Vigilant law. If you find any novelty here, let them know in the replica shift and I can explain in which law and in which article they were already spelled out before it was a novelty for you. So, the first thing you'd have to celebrate back then that it was, did you announce that finally the Council of Galicia would comply with the law? And then what were they doing up to that moment? Drop your arms by failing to comply with the norm. You announced a second group of measures that were novices, I quote them in detail: the technological platform to know the degree of protection of each mountain. Look, where is that platform? The listeners who are listening to us now, where can they consult? Look, you announced the creation of forest research teams to support the police, the Civil Guard in the search for the origin of the fires, have they created? No, they weren't created. But the worst of all this was that on the occasion of last year's budgets In Marea presented an amendment to budget this creation and the PP voted against. They also announced measure twenty-seven: the surveillance teams...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u44	...of non-compliance to monitor the implementation of preventive measures. Do you believe them? No, no, no, no. Measure twenty-eight: Fire investigation log with information available to the equipment, did they create us? No, no, no, no. Measure twenty-nine: forest surveillance network through video cameras installed in strategic locations, after closing dozens of forest cassettes, have they created them? No, no, no, no. Look, this time the question is very clear and very concrete so that you can't escape it. It lists what these measures, the 30 measures you announced last year, have not yet been implemented. You're enumerated. And it adds that two measurements of those thirty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u46	...will leave you unfulfilled before the end of this year. Don't read it and don't be scabet, the question is clear, just enumerate the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u47	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u48	Finally, Mr. Villares, you ask me a question that matches the wording, it's the first time. That's good. Let's move on. Like you always ask me things that have nothing to do with what you say. What would really be important is that En Marea was more interested in the Greek rural environment, because of course she had no interest in anything. If you want me to tell you what certain leaders of En Marea think of the rural environment. And what would really be important is that at least I'd know what the surface is dedicated to the eucalyptus in Galicia, because you believe it doesn't know anything about it. Do you know what forest surface is dedicated to the eucalyptus right now in Galicia? I'm sure you'll answer in the reply. Mr. Villares, look, indeed, a year ago Galicia was shaken by the fires of that weekend of October 15. I won't forget that four people died. I won't forget, too, Your Honor, the important business damage, family income, and the most important environmental damage we've had about a year ago. I'm not going to forget the solidarity effort we've had all the Greeks, nor how the neighbors worked, nor will I forget that there was an important collective consciousness. I will not forget, either, that we face in Parliament, the adviser comes immediately, I came once we have the hectares marked and the scope of the fires that weekend. I compared and presented thirty measures, one of which was the proposal of the groups to set up a committee. That commission is created and completed, and two thirds of this parliament agree, you don't. But I understand, Mr. Villares, you don't agree with anything. But the important thing is that you can still agree on something, and that's why it would be good for you to keep working, at least from now on, in the forest field. Mr. Villares, tell me you can count on the measures that are not met. It's much easier, because it's eight, because the remaining twenty-two are already met. So twenty-two met and eight unmet, 73% compliance percentage. Of those not met, five are started and we will finish them at the end of this year 2018 or at the beginning of 2019, and three are committed between 2019 and 2020. If you were in agreement with the commission and had signed your conclusions, I wouldn't be asked this question. But since you don't agree with anything, I'm going to propose! Firefighting agreements, of course we have to make agreements, what happens is that there are municipalities that want and others that don't. For example, the Town Hall of Mondariz didn't want to, and now there was a great fire in Mondariz, but this Town Hall of En Marea didn't want the brigade and didn't have it, and now we've come to give us lessons of forest engagement. Mr. Villares, a little humility about it. Rural approl, there were never workshops, seven million euros for rural Approl, why? To hire four hundred thirty unemployed. Financing of the purchase of seventy tractors, they never bought so many tractors. You say there are no cameras; you're right; there's only eighty-eight cameras covering 67% of all high-risk parishes. You see, Mr. Villares, like you don't live here. You live on other campuses; of course, not in the rural environment. You don't know that matter. Now, you tell me what we don't actually do, it's eight; it's eight, actually. We have not yet complied with the cautious incorporation of the Land Bank of the abandoned common neighbouring mountains. Indeed, we are examining one by one to concretely what we incorporate. The mobilization of abandoned lands. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a law, Galicia's productive land mobilization law, and we want to have it in this parliament, but for now we have already incorporated a thousand and fifty hectares of eighty owners. Impulse forest district planning plans. We've been diagnosed with college and we've got over seven hundred thousand euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u50	...this budget to finish it. Continue to move forward in the partial restructuring. Your Honor, if you were the commission and the pact, you know that the commitment of the one hundred and ninety thousand hectares concentrated is at the end of 2020. The fifth step is to draw up a regulation on Sofor. Indeed, Your Honor, we have him in public consultation. And the last three that we're missing, research teams, failure surveillance and administrative record, this has to be done in 2019. You're right, twenty-two measures accomplished, 73% compliance, eight measures running.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u52	You're right, Mr. Villares, why don't you get to work on this for the first time? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u53	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, in the government control session the questions are the members of the opposition, so if you want to be able to answer how many hectares of eucalyptus are planted right now in Galicia, which for that they rule. Look, of the other twenty-two measures, those that say they've already done, did you buy them with what, what money? Because, look, in the 2017 Galician General Account there were budgeted in the area of prevention of forty-one million euros from which less than thirty-five million euros were executed. We're talking about all the matches, you've already unearthed the changes that have been made in the Galaga Forest Industry Agency and everything. A difference of six million euros that looks like you don't need to carry out these errands. See, as the Budget Project is already presented for 2019, we can also check in relation to 2018 what it stops doing in the budgets as well as in relation to last year. So we don't know what means they're going to meet those twenty-two that say they've done. I say this because they lowered the stakes, in particular, in the rental of means of extinction, in surveillance, prevention and extinction of fires, in equipment and quadruplets, in studies of prevention, monitoring and deterrence in research, in forest fire prevention, in deforestation, pruning and relays. With what money will they do what they say they're doing from the other twenty-two measures? Can you explain how? He says they haven't done everything about the Land Bank yet. No, man, of course, and besides spending on the budget project just a thousand euros more than last year for staffing will be difficult, too, that they can fulfill that. With regard to the partial concentration, you have committed to ending legislation by 2020 with the one hundred and thirty active concentrations, the one hundred and thirty. So, look, we don't know if you're going to give it to him, because in 2016 they delivered the seven-zone titles, the two-zone titles in 2017; so if they're 130, you're going to say what they're going to do in 2019 and 2020. Nor do we hear him speak of the only operating command, which does not exist today, despite the fact that it is planned for the four emergency plans that exist in our active country. You've also talked about forest impulse plans, which up to now are not active, and you've also recognized, at least, that you wouldn't. Then from the Sofors they had the opportunity to negotiate with the Government of the State a change in the prosecution, and they haven't done it this whole year. Are you going to do it now? The Sofors, who, by the way, have been created in almost nine years of vigil of that institution, an absolute success, so you can see! The facilities for acting in the unknown ownership plots are the same, and also the participation of parliamentary groups in the drafting of the Forest Plan. No engagement was given in 2015. And to us this seems absolutely unacceptable. As for collaboration agreements, not all municipalities can assume it. You were talking about the Mondariz Town Hall, there are municipalities that have to choose between...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u55	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u56	...to agree to the extinction and prevention of fires, or to do so in relation to social services, and they have to make decisions and can't do it according to the requirements set by the Galician Union. That's why there's not a hundred percent in the case of district fires or brigades, nor does it happen in that agreement with the Fegamp, which by the way, for the cleaning of mountains, is also supposed to exempt you from your own responsibilities and, of course, from your own competences as well. By the way, when there is a fire again in 2018, a year after the previous year, as the only operating command has not been activated, there is a discoordination of the available means, there is no telephone for the municipal authorities to be able to coordinate with emergency services and, therefore, the media eventually arrive late at the place of extinction of the fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u57	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u58	I absolutely agree that I am here to answer the questions. You said Galicia was a eucalyptal, and I asked you if you know what percentage of forests is meant to the eucalyptus, and you say you don't know. So why do you say that? Mr. Villares, why do you say what you don't know? [[Laughter]] Look, the current Forest Plan, percentage of hectares dedicated to eucalyptus, 15.17%, and we want it to be in the end, within twenty years, 16.4%. I mean, the total of leafy, brown and pine trees is over 50% and eucalyptus is 16%, and you come here and say it's a Galician eucalyptal. What's wrong with you? Look: "Rural Galicia is a distorted idea that is sold for election purposes, Galicia is eminently urban, most of the population lives in the Atlantic axis, and the country's wealth is produced around the urban areas." Mayor of Marea, he said. And you come here to talk about the countryside after this, Mr. Villares? Do you disallow this lack of respect for the German rural environment or not? Oh, you don't know about this, because the problem you have is that you don't care, except to ask some questions from time to time. You say this is absolutely disillusioned. It will be absolutely upset, but we have, except that October weekend, forty-eight hours—if, with hurricane in the middle, with hurricane in the middle—for we have the best years of forest fires. And this isn't thanks to the Galician Union, first of all, it's thanks to the increasingly conscious neighbors, thanks to the brigades, thanks to the police and the Civil Guard. That's why in 2018, Mr. Villares, we've been the best year since there's records after 2014. [[Applause]] Some collective consciousness we wake up. By the way, today we are going to assign an agreement with 50 entities belonging to the entire wooden chain, so that we can see that the entities do agree, and we agree with the entities. We will sign a plan to recover the coniferous mountains and promote the consumption of wood, fifty entities in Galicia. Something's moving, Mr. Villares. I celebrate he's moving this whole thing. But you tell me about the partial mergers, and you don't know how to distinguish between the taking of possession and the delivery of titles. Don't you know the difference between the two? Your Honor, there are thousands of hectares that have been handed over to the possession and then come to the delivery of titles. So they have possession and they're working from the moment of possession, and the delivery of titles is a later matter and it has nothing to do with the previous one. One hundred and ninety thousand hectares of concentrate we're going to deliver in this legislation. Your Honor, it's not just that we don't run all the money from the fires, that we always drift away, because we run more. You tell yourself there are municipalities that can't run, or you can't have money for the brigades. What do you think if I tell you the same thing? That our services are social services and health, and that in the area of the council the responsible ones — not because we say it, but because the law says it, by the way, a law of the Bipartite — are the municipalities. But 90% of the municipalities signed an agreement, and several of them didn't. So before you ask the others to do it, you should do something. But we're used to it, Mr. Villares, we're used to it. [[Applause]] Look, you criticize, for example, the high-speed train. It's a rich train, and then they tell us we're late on the high-speed train. You criticize the increase in public debt, and now you propose that we increase the public debt. They are now criticizing the measures adopted by two thirds of this Parliament, and you are against the committee and the agreed measures. Mr. Villares, it makes you feel like you're making opposition by throwing a coin into the air to see what falls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u59	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u60	But you have a chance, Mr. Villares. Look, the Union, the majority of its neighbours, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, more than 90% of its municipalities, a lot of owning Greeks and the wood sector, we agree. Why don't you take part in an agreement that benefits the country, Mr. Villares? It's a formal proposal. Now he says we don't approve the Forest Plan, but don't you remember that the Forest Plan is going to pass it on a commission? Tell us that one single command must be put in place, but do you not know that this committee has decided to establish within the groups that form the single commission we must formalize? But, Mr. Villares, who are you against? All of them. Do you know who we are with? With the Greeks, and you against everyone. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u61	Thank you, President. We continue with point 6 of the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions carried out or planned by the Government of Galicia to shorten the situation of labour discrimination on the grounds of sex being given in the cleaning service of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u62	You have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u63	Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Rueda, today we bring to this chamber the very serious discrimination that is taking place on the grounds of sex in the cleaning service of Galician Union in Santiago de Compostela. Some women who have been mobilising for months, and already before the summer, have sent complaints documents, both the Presidency and Equality; they have made numerous mobilisations; they have met with the UN, with its parliamentary group, and even have manifested themselves both in front of the Council of Galicia and in front of this Parliament on numerous occasions, the most recent during the last debate of the state of the nation. A debate, by the way, in which it is a pity that Mr. Núñez Feijóo had left now, because he did not then answer Mrs. Pontón's question that it seemed to him that a woman would cover less than if a man did, and in what you also voted against putting an end to this discrimination. I don't know, Mr. Rueda, if you don't know or do not know, but of course, from BNG we won't allow this matter to continue as long as you look the other way. I don't know if you share that of "the same job, the same salary." I wonder, then, why does it allow a contract directly dependent on you to have this serious discrimination? You know that two very serious issues are going on: firstly, only men can rise to the category of pawn-specialists, which means they charge more than women for the same job; secondly, only men can attend different pluses, such as, for example, toxicity, and this also causes their wages to increase to the detriment of women. I don't know, Mr. Rueda, if you think women have superpowers. I know that sometimes it looks like it, but, of course, I tell you that walking with toxic products has the same risks for us as for any man, and therefore we deserve the same compensation. [[Applause]] The only thing that explains that women in the cleaning service of the Galician Union cover less than men is machismo; the machismo and the discrimination that you are allowing. You said after 8M that you were going to take note, but frankly, you seem to have put a front page, because they've been on this subject for months. We're talking about a template, where about 80% are women, and they suffer an unacceptable salary breakdown. There's a difference between a cleaner and a specialist pawn -- I insist it's a category to which only a man can come, by simply being a seal -- from up to 600 euros a year. A thousand and six hundred euros! Upstairs, in this room, accompany us, Mr Rueda, a company committee united in this matter, united in this matter, and what you need is a government that stops looking elsewhere. This is not a business-working conflict, this is not something to be expected of the inspection, requires an immediate political response, because, how will you convince Mr. Rueda, that he pays equally to men and women if the Council of Galicia does not do so?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, indeed, the works committee is present, which I take advantage of to greet you, and I also use to tell you that I am sure that you ask the question as a representative of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, and therefore awaits an answer from the objective Government, and not as a representative, that it is not, or a member of a company committee that has a clearly stated position, too; it is therefore part of this discussion that is being held, or in this conflict, or as you wish to call it. I suppose, too, that you will not be putting into doubt — although I already know that yes, listening to it, and should not — but honestly, but you are putting into doubt, rather completely denying, the total will of this government, and also of all the previous ones, especially as regards the cleaning sector in the contracts that the Union is doing for maintaining equality and decent working conditions, and all that has to do with a development worthy of any work it deals with with the Council of Galicia, but especially this one. You know that for many years now in Galicia, not this government, but the previous government — and it has been maintained — has made a special effort to equate the wage conditions and working conditions of the cleaning sector that it hires with the Union — of course it is a majority female job, and that has entailed a number of improvements that have not only been maintained, but even consolidated over time. I'm saying that because listening to you seems to me that the Union is all about the opposite, and that's not the case. You also know, perfectly, that in 2015 we approved a series of measures and clauses to ensure socially responsible recruitment, involving and introducing many new developments that are not yet in the recruitment of other administrations, and that they refer directly to ensuring that there is, of course, no discriminatory treatment on the basis of sex; that is, to guarantee equality, to guarantee social inclusion in these contracts which the Council of Galicia does: decent work and all that has to be guaranteed and which is guaranteed through the inclusion of these conditions in the requirements of technical prescriptions. So this has to do with any company that hires the Galician Board, and has to do with it, of course, the company with which the Galician Board hired to clean its facilities, and which, therefore, is the concessionaire. Indeed, I say all this to make it clear that it is not at all everything you have said in your introduction, nor in the text of the question you have put in writing. Not so, you're going to say otherwise, but I'm telling you here that you should, in my opinion, speak as representative of all the Greeks and Greeks, and not making an intervention that gives a whole reason to a part in a conflict where two positions are faced. That's what I'm going to tell you from Galicia. You know perfectly well, first, that this matter is not yet closed, they're talking between the company committee and the company itself. He also knows that this affects one of the lots hired. There are three, and it affects a particular area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u67	... does not affect all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u68	Thank you, Vice President. He's got another shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u69	Well, we'll keep talking in the second part to tell you that this is a two-part thing and you can't reason one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u70	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u71	Indeed, Mr. Rueda, I speak as representative of the Greeks and the Greeks. It is good that at last since the People's Party stands it is understood that we are equal to representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks who have more Members and Members than we do. [[Applause]] But I also tell you, who voted for me chose me not to measure wills, but to measure and monitor compliance with the German Government. And I think that since you know this problem, already in the spring, they've had more than enough time at the doors of winter. [[Applause]] This contract that has been tried by you has already been warned on your day by the union forces that this issue was unresolved. So we'll have other occasions to talk about that contract more often, but I'm here today to ask you to stand here, but not to stand on one pole or another pole, but to stand on the right side of women's pay equity. Because -- I insist -- if they don't do their best, through negotiation with the company, in this case, how will the private company convince us to remunerate us equally with men and women? I ask you three very specific things, Mr. Rueda. First, that they recognize the reality of what's going on and stand by the workers and workers. Also the workers of this service, who fully agree that their companions deserve equal treatment. Secondly, let them join in dialogue with the company. This is not something alien where you have nothing to do with it and whether it's just between companies and workers. The Galician Union has an unquestionable negotiator capital there, and you know it perfectly well. And thirdly, if there is no response within a reasonable period of time on the part of the company, you have to act, you have to initiate the processes necessary to terminate that contract if the North Group does not accept that the women of this country deserve exactly the same opportunities to ascend into the category and to charge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u73	...and any woman.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u75	It's so simple...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u77	...as a matter of rights, Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u78	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u79	And if they're willing, we'll be by your side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u80	It's over. Thank you. Close the question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Noa, you recognize that they are much less, because sometimes they don't seem to notice. That being less doesn't mean that we don't recognize them from the beginning that, of course, they have exactly the same rights and obligations as any Member or Member of this House, and one of them is trying to be objective, which is the way to resolve conflicts, and not to think that someone has the absolute truth on one side and that, of course, if you don't give it, what you have to do is throw the other side into the street. That's how conflicts are not solved. I think they don't even want to solve their own workers in this particular case. I mean, you always... at last it seems like you've just joined this business. By the way, I've devoted my first part of the intervention to explaining to him what the position of the Galician Union is, but you've already positioned me and asked me to stand. He has already positioned me, and with me the whole of the German Government, on the other hand, saying that we are not for equality, that we are almost enemies and that we love him is, as long as there can be discrimination, favor him. As it is quite the contrary, therefore I took all the first part of my intervention to make it clear, if it had been necessary — which I think is not —; in fact, that it is quite clear. And, look, I have to tell you, we've known this from the beginning. Another thing is that you, after a few months, bring this matter to the House, but it's been many months before. It is the first time that I have come to respond — as my obligation is and with all tranquility — to this question, but of course it is not new. So, if you think it hasn't been necessary until now, you'll see the gravity and urgency of this topic, of course! That's why I told him they're talking about the company committee and the workers from the beginning. Of course, you didn't tell everything. He didn't tell us first that the company had its reasons, and he alluded to them. I'm not telling you you're right about the company, not much less about it, but I can't tell you that the workers have it either, of course and because yes, and if you don't give it to them, you have to throw out the company and terminate the contract. That's not how it's done. That's how things don't work. And — I insist — I don't think that this is what the workers want in a conflict that, as I said before, affects, if we make the overall count, less than 3% of men and women — mainly women, as I told you at first and as you know — who are under this contract. There's no legal demand, you know it perfectly well. We're talking about a company. I don't have to come here to defend the company, but you also know that it's a company that is characterized by hiring many women victims of gender-based violence and having conciliation measures. All this to say is that we have to talk about the two parts in their reasons. And, of course, workers have to ask if they think there's discrimination. The company committee, not all workers. The works committee, which are its representatives, if they think there's discrimination, they have to pose it. And the Galician Board, first, listen to them, as we did -- you know, there were meetings -- and then do what a responsible administration has to do, which is to transfer them to the Labour Inspectorate -- as we did -- so that you objectively find that competent administration whether they are giving themselves or not giving themselves these objective conditions and, if not, there is discrimination. Look, this doesn't have to solve it or, of course, the BNG in a question, or, of course, the company's committee with its position, or, of course, the company, which has the right to defend itself any more, or the Galician board, that it does is to adjudicate a contract of free competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u83	...requiring, if, now, President, that certain conditions are met.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u85	The Labour Inspectorate will tell whether or not this discrimination is being imposed. And, of course, if he's giving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u86	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u87	...they can have the absolute guarantee that the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u88	It's over now, Counselor... Please don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u89	...will act accordingly. Now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u90	They accompany the services of the House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u91	...to judge before, as you do, it doesn't lead anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u92	Our guests accompany the House services. Question by Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the fulfilment of the deadline set out in the 2009-2015 MOVE Plan for the end of the performance called "VAP Tui-A Guarda, third I: Tui (Link A-55)-Tomiño (Link PO-350)"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u93	Question by Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u94	Thank you, Counselor and Mr. President. After listening to the President of the Board a moment ago, I was made clear to me something that I — which I am a bit of insight — suspected, that in the reprogramming of the 2010 MOVE Plan, when you already knew the huge puppies that the former Government had left them, or was either a lie to the puppies, or either you have deceived the whole of Galicia in an absolutely indecent way. Those are the two possibilities we have. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because, Counsellor, in that plan of the year 2010, where they already knew about the puppies, they already knew about the arrival of the tax collection, they knew all they had to pay for the highways auctioned by the Greek Government... didn't they know yet? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Didn't you give them time to study this year and a half? Counselor, you need to move more! Look, the Tui-A Guard is a regrettable case of absolute disability. I recommend that you go into Google Earth and see the explanation made in the three and a half kilometers from the link of Areas -- which is not built -- and the end of that plot. Be careful, drain it, because as Plisan continues to be filled with migratory birds, it becomes a place of community interest and cannot do the work. If you notice, they made the access to Plisan, which is not Plisan. And there they did a three-kilometre explanation plot that literally links "nothing with nothing," as you well know. Except that Google Earth also lies and is serving international Leninism, which I think is not. That's on stage one. [[Laughter]] On stage 2 we have 14 kilometers with traffic density of 14,453 vehicles/day. I insist — I repeat, Counsellor — 14.453. Don't be surprised, it's the data on the map of the Union! If they're wrong, change the counting machine. It's 14,453 vehicles/day, what are you going to do in that way, Counselor? Because if the plan you're going to develop is what you've planned to do, take advantage of the current roundabout, I'd like to know -- it's true that I'm not a engineer -- how you manage a traffic of 14,453 a day. So, what are you going to do? Nothing! It'll follow exactly as it's been eight years. There's an actual plot built. By the way, it started the construction, started the design and the project the Government of the Puphos, but you finished it -- that's right, and I'm going to recognize it. And there's a fourth stretch, which is the circumvaluation of the Guard, which is neither expected nor expected. So there are sticks, brush and broom, a stretch that you don't know what's going to happen to him. And, on the other hand, another plot that the truth is that the Guard has already lost all hope. You know the population density of the area, 45,000 inhabitants, over 250 inhabitants/square kilometer, and scattered population. What are you going to do? I'd like you to tell us just what they're going to do. And, of course, that they give us plausible calendars...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u96	...because, really, the budget data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u97	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u98	...that you present are pure and simply a shame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u99	The question is put. Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u100	Thank you, President. Your Honor, there's Plisan in spite of you, the puppie they left at Plisan. So, there's Plisan and he's in full development, with 30 million works to start now and to start marketing, despite the outcome you did in Plisan. [[Applause]] But I remind you, I understand that you could attend to the president, you could attend my intervention yesterday, the MOVE Plan is much more than a plan of execution of works, it's much more than that. It's a living plan, for continuous follow-up, which was designed in 2009. And of course the circumstances in 2009 and also in 2010 were very different from the years following the economic crisis, a profound economic crisis. You know, because you didn't manage in the full economic crisis, but the ones we had to manage in the economic crisis, we know what it is. And of course, holes and puppies we know, and then even -- I repeat -- the breakdown of the gestures. This forced a new reflection, a viable, realistic planning, and a road planning in the current context. Because, look, you're used to spending on right and left. You had designed a high-performance route in Tui-A Guard on stage 1 and 2 that you didn't want anyone, with the rejection of the whole world and with an investment of EUR 177 million to 14.3 kilometers, 12.4 million/kilometre. How about you? Does the pharaoh have to be the best? No, there are many ways to do viable, useful and efficient works, not to spend the right and sinister as you did, leaving faggots, holes and mortgages, despite having a lot more money. And with half the budget we've done a lot of things. In particular, and going back to the Tui-A Guard VAP, since we've taken steps and it's a priority for us. And I say it's a priority with concrete facts, you know that. In very difficult times — I again insist, very difficult, you have to be there, to manage and see the problems we have and we have encountered — we made the first 10 kilometers between Goián and La Guarda. The current Government of the Union in 2014 invested 60 million euros. I insist again, in full economic crisis 10 kilometers; paying off the expropriations — for you, of course, the expropriations that pay them what comes after — and paying all the work. So we'd like to have a lot more done, but we'll keep moving forward. There was a work meeting -- you know -- with the mayors last year where we made decisions from the point of view of a fundamental technical and functional analysis. We'll resume the main and most priority, which is the link of Areas, which was not designed by you. And, of course, we have made progress with the lifting of previous acts, because — I insist — we have to pay off expropriations when the works are done, not let expropriations pay them what comes next. So, for my part, nothing else. In the next intervention I will give more information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u101	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, if there's Plisan, Counselor, I really think we have nothing else to say. There's Plisán! Perfect. And this is a living plan. There's no Plisan, Counselor! Don't call us idiots, where's Plisan? What is Plisan? Logistic Platform... No, no, I alter what I consider appropriate... that for nuns I've already gone to school, okay? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] I went to school for nuns! [[Applause]] It's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no Plisan, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u103	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u104	...as you well know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u105	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u106	No waste water debugger, no supply water debugger, no connection to river network. There's no Plisan, there's a mouthpiece of 1 square kilometers and 20 meters deep. There was a Mitsubishi factory, too, remember? There was one, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They say you spend the right and the left. Hey! —I repeat — in their plan for 2010 they keep the budget appropriations, did they not know the crisis situation there?, did they not know the puppies and the fall of the tax collection? They knew him! What happens is that this was very useful to go through the country saying what my roommate usually says, that they do, that they do, that they do, and then, unfortunately, they don't. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I would have to explain, Counselor, the 3.6 million euros that diverted this project to another project. I could explain why he did it. I'm sure there's a technical reason, but he did. I think I remember that there's a budgetary change... not 3.6... yes, at the Morrazo, exactly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you diverted us, didn't you? So the best thing you can do is budget well. I recommend that you see the real investment sheet of this 2019 budget work: EUR 3,088,758. I congratulate you on the precision. Now I'm telling you: self-stretched measure. He's here, eh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not making it up, unless you have a black version.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u107	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u108	Being, she's here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u110	Total mileage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u111	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u112	...and degree of execution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u113	Thank you very much. Your time is up. The question is already formulated and understood. [[Applause]] Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u114	Thank you, President. What you don't manage! Of course, I would ask you here that the President of the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation report as soon as possible to EUR 30 million. [[Murmurs.]] Now who's in the Presidency of the Confederation? We are awaiting the Confederation's report for 30 million euros hired, assisted, who knows it takes their time, to do the works of the EDAR of Plisan. So as soon as we have the Confederacy report that we are waiting for, we will act in those works of water and sanitation. Of course, in any case I have to tell you again, I think you recognize the puppies and mortgages that you left with that short political vision of selling some works and leaving the pouf to the others, who come to pay the others. That's the easiest thing. The easy thing is to do when you stop seeing. The easy thing is to do when you stop seeing. Above all, I don't know how to qualify, when you have a lot of money to go budget. In any case, our bet with concrete realities, 60 million euros in full economic crisis, 10 kilometers accomplished, paying off expropriations and not leaving them duty. With progress in connecting the Area Polygon because that's what society demands there and what workers demand there. We have drafted this project to bid this first third in 2019, with an budget in the next year, as you know, of 3 million euros. So we have a viable development strategy so that it can be realized, to do through phases of the budget, not through concession, as when there is a lot of surplus money, but through phases, to do it really and bet on a better adaptation to the territory and to do non-Pharaonic works, but useful and efficient. I say again that the Tui-A Guard I and II VAP, the third I and II, which you designed, was an unsavory highway that didn't want anyone; 177 million euros, 14.3 kilometers, 12.4 million euros/kilometre, let's see if it seems reasonable to you, of course, that vision of driving. We have a new design, an urban highway. In its final part, of course, it will be much better: breaking down the line of Figueiró, minimizing the impact, increasing accessibility. With quality and safety on the road, of course we bet on it, and therefore useful, efficient and most advantageous. With maximum participation and maximum consensus. He knows that we had a meeting last year with all the mayors in the area because we want to make it viable, because to present indispensable works, of course I don't share it, and with commitments of budget spending. I have the opportunity to say this today, that Friday is likely to pass unnoticed, with spending commitments: EUR 3 million this year, EUR 56 million in the future, to advance the year coming on the way to high-performance Tui-A Guarda. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the fulfilment of the deadline set out in the 2009-2015 MOVE Plan for the end of the action called "VAP Nadela-Sarria. Deployment of the VAP Nadela-Sarria"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u115	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. We're going to continue, therefore, enjoying the MOVE Plan, which we started yesterday afternoon and you said it was a subject you particularly liked. I'll ask you about the deployment of the high-performance route between Nadela and Sarria. As you know perfectly well, in that initial MOVE plan, that we are increasingly aware that it was not for anything other than a propaganda instrument, nor even planning and running roads, that we saw the deployment of 26.8 kilometers, with an budget of 34 million euros —34,800,000 — that should be finished in 2015. We're talking about a corridor -- as you well know -- which comes into what we could call the temporal execution phase: this year plus 4, plus 5, plus 6; that is, a random number of years. Because the last stretch that opened between Sarria and Monforte, which had to be finished in 2013, opened in October 2015. You're out of that margin, that temporary laxity, because this unfoldment had to be completed in 2015, and it's not enough for those two years anymore, because it would have to be finished, therefore, in 2017. On June 19, this year, the People's Party asked him a question in full whose sole purpose was, of course, to cover the small budget that you have set out in the budget plan for 2019. So Mrs. Friend, who asked the question, spoke of it as a basic infrastructure, which guarantees mobility and vertebration, security, etc. And he also said that if you were seeing the achievements of the Government of the Council of Galicia, because it seems that he had some kind of privileged information that allowed him to be confused that you were going to start the unfoldment of this high-performance route, between Nadela and Sarria, in the year 2019. The fact is that you recognized that this vial, since it was opened, has experienced an increase in traffic above the average experienced in the autonomous community, which was at 2%, while in this high-performance pathway that increase was at 10%. We therefore speak of a strategic road to the entire province of Lugo, because not only does it communicate all these municipalities, but it also serves at this moment of almost priority connection between Lugo and the city of Ourense to Monforte, following the National 120. The truth is, when I saw the budget project, I said, it doesn't make sense that I ask this question because the sheet, just like Mr. Losada just asked, has already answered our question. You set up a million euros for this year 2019 and then leave for the following years — I don't know if they're poofs, if they're budget forecasts — up to a total of 16 million euros for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. And the worrying thing about this is that the degree of execution planned for next year is 5%. Counsellor, what are you going to do to unfold this vial? What are you writing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u117	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u118	Thank you, President. I have to repeat myself. Just like you repeat, I have to repeat myself, because we're on the same theme as the MOVE Plan. To insist that there is no doubt, the fundamental economic crisis and the mortgages that we find ourselves, they have obviously forced us to make a reflection on the mobility plan. But — I insist — in the midst of the economic crisis, with many difficulties, we have achieved more than 200 kilometres of high-speed routes free of charge, and thus reaching more than 80% of the population within 15 minutes of a high-speed route. Of course it was a titanic effort and an important effort in the area of road infrastructure. With regard to Sarria-Monforte, from now on we recognize that it is a fundamental strategic infrastructure in the province of Lugo for mobility and equal opportunities for the neighbours and the Greeks, and in the midst of economic crisis in this case too, we vertebrate and improve the connection between Lugo and Monforte. You know we put 28 kilometers of a high-performance route, Sarria-Monforte, into full economic crisis. October 2012, Sarria-O Incio 7.2 kilometers; October 2015, Bóveda-Monforte, 11.7 kilometers; and in November 2015, the following third, of 9 kilometers, The Incio-Boveda. It is therefore a great effort of government in the midst of economic crisis, with 135 million euros paid; paid for work, paid for expropriations and not leaving the duty of those who come after. A very important milestone and a reinforcement of mobility and an important saving of time, especially avoiding 16 kilometers of crossings and thus improving road safety in an important way. I think it's unquestionable, and it's clear, our bet for continuing to vertebrate Galicia and for further improving the connection between Lugo, Sarria and Monforte. I don't know if you can calibrate what is EUR 135 million in the middle of economic crisis. They can't calibrate it, but I'm telling you, it's an important titanic effort. You've ruled in abundance, you don't know what it's like to manage strictly. In any case, the easy, also with kindness, is leaving duty, doing leaving duty is the easiest. And we will continue to work, consistent, responsible and taking into account that decrease in spending capacity in recent years. He forced us to reflect, but we're working and moving forward, he knows well. Not because a Member had said it, but because we put public information on it, this will see that we are going to unfold, as a matter of priority, Poor Sarria, that it was necessary for its enlargement, and of course we are going to work to hire it, do it and put it into service as soon as possible, because that third, 11 kilometers, between Poor San Xiao and Sarria, we have detected that it is the most important and the most priority. So we're going to make very important progress in the next few months and, above all, in the year 2019. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u119	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, neighbors of the town of Corgo, Lancara, Paradela, Paramão, Sarria, Incio, Boveda, Poor Brollon, Monforte, more what I told you before the traffic in transit to Ourense, which goes from Place fundamentally through that new route, I think they deserve some more concrete answer than you just told me. I'd like to suppose that at the end of your life, in your next shift, you'll give me a specific date or, at least, approximate, with a lower error, which can be, at 2, 3 or 5 years that are becoming usual in the development of this plan. Because — I insist — with a degree of execution planned for the year 2019 of 5%, which I suppose corresponds to — to understand us colloquially — to the paper of the work, not to which we see there any kind of machinery finishing the unfoldment, in a plot that you said yesterday, and of course, is already planned for this unfoldment, it requires — I insist — something more concrete. What are you going to do for the next few years? When is the time horizon for the end of this work? When can you tell the citizenship of all these municipalities that will end this unfoldment? Beyond the year 2022? I mean, within five years? Is that your answer today to this question? Can I move you to the neighborhood of Lugo that this unfolding will be over in five years? Can I even say that, or can I say that we're working on it? That's the conclusion of this question, that's what you have to tell me. And one thing to finish. You said, better said, you asked us and you've already answered, if you could calibrate what it meant for 135 million euros in times of economic restriction. Frankly — and I'm sorry to tell you — it's a disrespect, because we, from time to time, are also able to add the figures, and some even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u122	...we can understand what they mean. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u123	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close the question, Madam Infrastructure Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u124	Thank you, President. We continue to work to materialize as soon as before, of course, the unfoldment between Nadela and Sarria. What we are going to do with this government, of course, is start the unfolding of this route starting with the most necessary from the technical point of view, the most necessary from the point of view of the orography, of the difficulties in advance, of the pronounced pendants, and that piece of work we're working on, we've identified it, and we've already publicly said, I don't think it's already new in this Parliament, the 11.5 kilometers between the poor of St. James and Sarria center. It's the most necessary work and action, and we'll do it when the increase in traffic recorded tells us that we have to do it and justify its enlargement. The annual growth rates between 2016 and 2017 show a five-fold increase to the road network set. But, Mr. Álvarez, you have to take into account something you forget when you criticize that nothing has been done so far as you expand the corridor. You don't notice that with the economic crisis traffic was also lower than planned, and traffic on the Junta road network between 2010 and 2014 was therefore a decline, as a result of the economic crisis, of 12%. So it's now when traffic advises us to work for deployment, and we're working. We do it because we can, besides we want and we have budget, and now it's when traffic advises us to start working, and we have a lot of work ahead of time. In 2017 we hired that draft, not by concession, but by truce, by budget, with half the budget that you had. The drafting of this project we have it. We put it in public information, I said it in my first intervention. We continue with that project, and we will process the update of the environmental impact statement because to bid works they know that there must be an important process. We will be able to bid the work, of course, in 2019, because we have will, we have work done and we have budget and a clear commitment: by road safety, by territorial vertebration and by equal opportunities, and also by improving the functionality and level of service of that corridor. Of course, I would like to thank you again for the opportunity you have given me, both in the previous and today's intervention, because the important investment we are going to make in the Budgets of the Galician Infrastructure Board, as in the VAP Tui-A Guard and in Sarria-Monforte, is likely to go unnoticed next Friday. So I appreciate the opportunity you give me today to explain next year's budgets. The conversion of poor San Xiao-Sarria center is the largest investment of a road infrastructure in the province of Lugo. It's a million euros next year that will allow you to bid and start the works next year, and the 16 million euros needed in the future to run this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u126	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u127	Thank you. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the actions planned by the Council of Galicia in order to ignify the working conditions of the sea product sector in view of the current situation in the negotiation of its convention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u128	Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u129	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today we bring the situation of a sector of great importance to our country, the product sector developed from the sea. It's a sector where the vast majority of them are women, and they've been watching their working conditions get worse and worse. As you know, this Monday they had a day of historic strike that managed to paralyze production completely, and you can't better summarize what happened this Monday than with this headline: Total success of the first strike in the shellfish sector in Galicia. There was a complete follow-up. The workers focused on the doors of Cabomar, Fandicosta, Pereira and so many other companies throughout the country with only one requirement: to resume, which had been unlocked, the negotiation of the collective agreement in order to be able to end, once and for all, the precarious work they suffer. It's true that yesterday we had good news, because business representatives finally, after many years, accepted, thanks to pressure, changed attitudes and accepted, in principle, listening and negotiating. This is a small victory, an example given to us by these workers, which joins also the example given to us by all women in the past historic strike of March 8, and made it very clear to women, both this Monday and last strike of March 8, that, if we stop, we can paralyze everything completely. And I would like to offer the example that we are bringing to this plenary today as an exception, an isolated case of a particular sector, but unfortunately that's the norm. Labour precariousness is already a structural feature of the labour market in Galicia. So in addition to asking you about this particular sector, we believe that what we have to do is change the overall framework completely. Either the labour reforms are being repealed, which the only thing they've managed to achieve is to deepen social inequalities and undermine the negotiating power of collective bargaining, or everything you can say will be good intentions, good words, but they won't have any real correlation. As I said, this is a general problem that affects all the working classes in our country, but it's particularly worrying about the situation in this sector because we're talking about one of the worst food conventions in the whole area, which makes sea workers have poor wages: many of them don't even charge EUR 800 a month. And they have low wages for the agreement on the one hand, but also because more and more of the temporary, multi-service, part-time, etc. companies are being abused, with only one objective: cutting wages, cutting redundancies and reducing rights. That's why we want to ask them: do you really think you can live properly with 800 euros a month? Does 800 euros a month or less give to pay the rent, to pay the mortgage, to pay a leisure, to pay the bills, to pay the food? But the worst thing is, there's a lot of workers who pay a lot less. There are workers who are charging 500 euros. Do you really believe that with 500 euros, anyone can live decently? And as I said, unfortunately, this is not an isolated case. Work is becoming less and less connected to decent material conditions. Poor workers are increasingly too broad a reality. For all this, we asked him, what are they going to do to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u131	...dignify the working conditions of this sector? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, you are asking me about the situation of workers and workers in the crafts sector of the sea. The first, logically, is to transfer all the sensitivity and all the respect to all these workers. It's 13,100 direct jobs, so we're talking about a very important collective, rather than improving its conditions and, above all, ensuring that all of its rights are respected. And in that sense, logically, that negotiation of the collective agreement is a fundamental element so that an understanding can be reached between all parties, between the unions and the employers themselves, in order to have a new collective agreement. The Galician Union has already moved its collaboration to find a solution to this labor conflict. As you know, it is a collective state-wide agreement and, therefore, mediation does not correspond to the Council of Galicia, mediation corresponds to the Interconfederal Service of Mediation and Arbitration, a foundation under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour. In any case, the Galician Council, for its responsibility, is collaborating and is mediating between the unions and the employer itself, so it acted immediately on the Galego Labour Relations Council and, thanks to its mediation, it was able to convocate the planned strike for this week, it welcomes it and therefore gives time for workers, workers' representatives, trade unions and employers to reach an agreement. I understand from your intervention that you are not asking the Galician Council to impose that agreement, and I hope you respect the Constitution itself and let the representatives of the workers and the employer conclude that agreement. I hope that's your approach, because, of course, that's the government's approach. The Government, even if it is a state agreement, will continue to collaborate and defend its rights through the Galician Labour Relations Council, and thus defend all jobs without any distinctions. Therefore, I believe, Your Honor, that you should not seek political revenues in a process of negotiating a collective agreement, which is what you bring to this Parliament. I don't think I should. And I should respect the unions themselves and the employers and, of course, also the mediation work that can be done from the Galego Labour Relations Council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u134	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u135	First of all, tell him there's no political income. All we care about is the situation of many workers who are in contact with us. Don't worry that we're not using this in any partisan way, all we want is that the situation in the sector is improving. On the one hand, it is true that yesterday we knew that the employer took off the phone to sit down and negotiate, but don't be mistaken!, this was not thanks to the Board, it was thanks to this historic strike by the workers, who were able to paralyze production. So let's give the credit to those who really have it. On the other hand, of course, I know it's a state agreement, but you also know that 75% of the sector is in Galicia, that the main employer is in Galicia. So, as you know, Junta has a lot to say about this problem as well. On the other hand, for us, it doesn't fit the equidistant positions in this situation, and I'm going to explain why, it's not a complicated matter. The Galician Union has been subsidizing for many years with public money, for example, Congemar, without any consideration in return, without requiring wages to agree to be able to live in a decent way. Do you think they should continue to subsidize the employer year after year without requiring any parting, without demanding that workers have a minimum wage? That's why we understand that there's no fairness, we can't profile ourselves. Which side will she be on if the employer breaks the negotiations again, something that can happen very easily because they've been blocking this negotiation for years? If the negotiations are broken, which side will he be on? Will you continue to be on the employer's side or will you really get on the side of the workers, that the only thing you're demanding is to end the precariousness? There is no fairness because workers are demanding dignified conditions: some pluses, for example, of cooling, when they obviously work in wet and cold environments; a wage is consistent with the work they do. They're not demanding any excessive counterparty, they're not asking for multi-millionaire wages, all they're asking is to be able to live with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u137	...in a minimally dignified way. That's why we understand that the Galician Union can't remain in cross arms waiting for years to come.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u138	Thank you. Your time is up. Close, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Article 37 of the Constitution, I think it's a reading that, from time to time, is good to remember. "The law must guarantee the right to collective bargaining between representatives of workers and employers, as well as the binding force of agreements." The Galician Union will always be with the workers, I have no doubt, but also respecting that ability they have to negotiate collectively both the representatives of the workers and the entrepreneurs. What the Galician Union does, which doesn't do in Marea, is to be with all the workers. We're all with you, and it seems to you that there are first-time workers and second-rate workers. And it seems that when we talk about the workers and the workers' rights, not that. And if we're talking about Ence, either, it won't be, those better to let them disappear. Your Honor, I believe that when you talk about the rights of workers, you have to have a coherent speech and, therefore, know who to be at every moment, and of course the Council of Galicia knows that it has to be with the workers. In this case, we have the greatest support for the workers and the greatest respect for the sector as well, which you seem not to move, and of course we will continue to offer our collaboration. I understand that In Marea is now against the government, because now it turns out that they have a pact between Podemos and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u140	Mr. Sánchez, please. Mr. Sánchez, I don't want to call him back to order, but he's interrupting constantly. He's talking constantly. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u141	...the Government. I understand perfectly, therefore, that when it comes to labour policy, reality must be diverted. So we have to talk about reforming the labour law and we don't have to talk about the aspects that affect the workers. Because look, I think workers are affected by rising taxes, and of course they are also affected by all kinds of uncertainties from the point of view of economic policy, of course they are affected by them! The question is where In Marea is defending those workers, what speech and what kind of pacts are developing. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u142	Mr. Sánchez, I call you by order. Mr. Sánchez, I call you in order and watch out! 'Sorry, Counsellor,' it's the second time. So, I warn you that another third would mean expulsion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u143	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u144	No, no. He's repeatedly interrupting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u145	...the razor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u146	No, no, the razor marks it yourself in this case. Second call to order with expulsion warning. Whenever you want, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u147	I regret that In Marea is against that agreement and that agreement with the Government. I think it should move more realism and greater responsibility when it comes to workers' rights and the rights of a sector. So in this particular case there is no doubt that the Council of Galicia, as it has done this week, has been accompanying its own workers through the unions, through the employer, to mediate and that they are, in fact, still sitting to try to find an agreement. And you have no doubt that we will continue to accompany this process so that we can achieve this collective agreement that guarantees the improvement of rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u149	...of workers in the product sector developed from the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u150	Thank you. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the procedures to be followed by the Council of Galicia in conjunction with the Vigo Free Zone Consortium for the fulfilment of the deadlines set for the implementation of the construction project of the first vocational training campus in the city
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u151	You have the floor to Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u152	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Thank you for answering this question today from the Popular Parliamentary Group, which we have already registered in September, at the beginning of the session, because we were concerned and interested in the course and in the elaboration of what the Galicia FP Campus would be, the Vigo FP Campus. An agreement between the Galician Union and the Free Zone, an agreement that has also generated a consensus in the city that is sometimes not so common, and a campus that also puts on the table and can have a solution for problems that we are discussing permanently today, how can it be the escape of talent, how can it be to retain the Greek population that it is formed and to meet the demands of the trained business and industrial sector, which is a deficiency that we today, for example, have and are living in the naval. A FP Campus that brought together research and development, which coordinated the 16 PP centres in Galicia. A campus near the University, in Vigo, which has everything to do with the business fabric, which has everything to do with the industrial fabric. What's wrong? That the government is changing, that socialists arrive and they turn their backs on Galicia, they turn their backs on training, on industry, on business, on Vigo. Again they refuse a fundamental investment for the city. And a delegate of the Free Zone decides to invest 5 million euros in the purchase of a building in the center of Vigo — an official building, the old rhetoric — to make orders, which says that this does have to do with the investments of the Free Zone, but that a FP campus — I insist — which has everything to do with the industrial sector, which is the future, which is future projects, which is a call in Vigo that we have been asking for for for years, that has nothing to do with the investments of the Free Zone. So we don't understand this. This has only one heel of Achilles, only one person is against throughout Galicia and has names and names, which is Abel Caballero. Obviously, he's been working for himself for eleven years, working for the people who applaud where he goes and who sweep the carpets where he walks. But we don't want this, counselor, we want this FP campus in Vigo, we want even funding on the other hand if the Socialist Free Zone doesn't want to enter that FP campus. We want to know how things are, we want to know what that agreement consisted of; an agreement also unanimously on a committee of the Free Zone in which the current delegate was vocal, who voted in favour, and now directly blocks an investment that we believe is future for the company. The question was made for you to give us deadlines, and today we want to ask you a worrying question and think about what's going to happen with this FP campus, what future comes to you from Junta so that that's a reality, because we believe and we're going to fight because that campus is in Vigo and it's not going from that city or Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u154	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning to all of you. Mrs. Egerique, this is my first intervention in this House and I would like to begin by reaffirming that the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training, which now has precisely that name, Vocational Training, will continue to wager for educational innovation and for the empowerment of vocational training in the whole of the Greek territory. The question you put to me has to do with an ambitious project that precisely aimed at strengthening the Welsh FP as a reference in the state as a whole and meeting the demands of companies to get closer to the training field to better meet their needs. Thus, the so-called FP campus, located in Vigo, really transcended the educational field by incorporating the construction of a technology innovation and enterprise centre in the FP as a linkage and joint work element with companies. The Vigo FP campus seems to be no longer possible, because the initiative emerged precisely as a joint project between the Education Administration and the French Zone Consortium, an entity that is now withdrawn with certainly confusing arguments. The reality is that the Council is responsible for promoting innovation in the most practical training of the FP and the adequacy of the vocational qualifications of the student, while in order to achieve economic and business dynamisation, the necessary partner was the Free Zone. By the way, we have no doubt that if we hadn't tried to count on this entity, criticism would have been enough and certainly fierce. The joint project foresees an investment of 7.1 million Joints for the drafting of the project and the subsequent management of the networked work of the 16 FP centers. And the Vigo Free Zone assumed to allocate more than 5 million for a building conceived as a pioneering space for the promotion of new business projects oriented and based on technologies identified as 4.0. It is at least surprising that now the olivic entity that first supported the FP campus, and still today the important qualification for Galicia, is now refusing to invest the money committed to boost the technological innovation of the FP student enterprise in Vigo and its region. In this matter, the really worrying is not the educational aspect of the project, the really worrying is that an entity such as the Free Zone, which assumes as its own competence the economic promotion of Vigo and its area of influence, renounces a committed investment that would be intended to improve the socio-productive tissue of this important area of Galicia. Since June, we don't understand the technical impermissibility argument by the Vigo Free Zone Consortium to not assume its commitment to the FP campus project. Therefore, the Union regrets the decision of the Free Zone because it prevents the project; a project based on the use of synergies between the educational world and the business, and prevents it from going forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pomar. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u156	Thank you, Counselor, and thank you for your clarity in the argumentation of the answer. The truth is, interesting, serious, pioneer, meaningful, are some of the adjectives that Vigo people used in different fields to talk about this FP campus. You said that the Franca Zone had booked about five million euros for this, that's what it's going to cost the rhetorical building to make orders for Vigo socialists who move puppets there. It's a real disgrace! And it's a real disgrace that a person who believes himself to be most enlightened doesn't bet on this FP campus because he's been betting on himself for eleven years. Look, I'm telling you to do a very simple exercise, from eleven years ago, all the investments that you've made to Joine in these eleven years, and to remove all the infrastructure that you've built for Joine in Vigo in eleven years. What's left? Some mechanical stairways that go, by the way, directly to the county, which may have been done for itself, and there's nothing left. There's no legacy for the future, in the city it's eleven years a municipal government working for itself. They withdraw aid from the Consorcio do Casco Vello, withdraw aid from the naval, aid from the automotive sector, withdraw the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, the intermodal station, the City of Justice, the aid from the fishing sector, the expansion of IFEVI, the pedestrian roads etc., etc. What infrastructure and what investments did these socialists make Vigo from here to the future a city that could have a development like this campus of FP? Five million euros from the Free Zone for something that has everything to do with the economic development of the city, not 5 million euros to buy a building on Areal Street and make an order. That's the difference between them. That's the difference, Counselor. Let's stay worried, Abel Caballero is a bluff, he's an absolute bluff. Do you know what a bluff is? It's a person or something that disappoints after it has appeared prestige or created great expectations. This is what happens to us, we'll lose the FP campus, we'll lose that investment by the delegation of the Free Zone because the truth is that this is the reality, it's thinking about yourself and not thinking about the future of the city of southern Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. For the Government's replica shift, the Education Counsellor, University and Vocational Training, Mrs. Pomar Tojo. Sorry, wait a second. Silence, please, that you're debating a question and I'm sure we're all looking at how to deal with other cases. Thank you, Mr. Losada. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u158	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. I would like to reiterate that the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training will continue to bet on educational innovation and the empowerment of vocational training in both Vigo and Galicia. In collaboration with vocational training centres, we will continue to develop actions aimed at: first, to form highly qualified human capital, prepared to meet the market's technological challenges; second, to promote network work and coordination of vocational training centres, allowing specialization of supply and increase resources; third, to position educational centres to take on the new technological challenges; fourth, to enhance vocational training, ensuring a high level of labour integration; fifth, to promote the offer of dual vocational training, increasing precisely collaboration with local companies. We understand that the March of the French Zone Consortium prevents guaranteed development of the FP campus project in Vigo. It corresponds precisely to the entity that refuses to comply with its part of the project, explaining to the viguens and the Greeks the real reasons for abandoning a pioneering project in Spain. For his part, the Council's commitment to the FP campus of Vigo was collected in the 2018 budgets with a split of €250,000 for the drafting of the project of the work that had to run the Free Zone. The same amount was transferred to the 2019 Budget Project, since no knowledge was given of the consortium's resignation and the performance was scheduled for next year. To create the FP campus in Vigo responded to the opportunity that involved taking advantage of the synergies between educational centres and the business sector through an alliance with an agent like Zona Franca, with particular interest in economic promotion and entrepreneurship, a figure that does not exist in any other Greek city. I insist that the Council of Education, Universities and Vocational Training will continue to bet on educational innovation and the empowerment of vocational training in Vigo and throughout Galicia. It is therefore up to the French Zone Consortium to explain to the vigues and the Greeks the real reasons for abandoning an absolutely pioneering project in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u159	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Da Luca Chao Perez and two other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the reasons for the failure to meet the work catalogue of teachers of child education at the Integrated Public Centre As Mirandas, of the municipality of Ares
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u160	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u161	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, good morning. After the advertising announcement we've just attended, we'll allow the opposition to ask a question, which is what this time is supposed to be. A new question about the constant scissors to public education by his government, because unfortunately, as we have said, this start-up begins again as all school courses have begun since the People's Party used the excuse of the crisis to go cutting our rights with constant cuts: with fewer classes, less teachers, less teachers, less specialists — we have 1,200 less teachers — ultimately with fewer rights for all. Brión, Roxos, Allariz, Orders, Honey, are cases that have featured this course that you have on the table unattended, protests from educational communities by checking that, year after year, they have less resources to meet their needs, and they want answers. As is the case in Ares, where for weeks the educational community of ICC As Mirandas has been denouncing the situation that they suffer after being cut off one of the teachers of childhood education, a place that has not been covered in the temporary adjudication after the retirement of its holder in the past course. A month after the start of the classes, the Council — you — continues to give the floor in response, ignoring these demands and trampling on the rights of the children and children in the center. As you know, the Order of 12 August 2010 establishing the number of teaching units and jobs of public schools at the levels of child education, primary education and special education, establishes the number of teaching units and jobs that are appropriate to provide for the staff of teachers and teachers in the centre that we are currently in. According to this rule, the ICC The Mirandas are responsible for eight jobs — eight —. You don't say it at school, you don't say it to families, you don't say it at Marea, you tell it, you tell it at the DOG, it's here published, it's about your own catalogue. That is why we believe that the cut-off of the teaching square mentioned in the children's cycle is illegal, because it is included in the catalogue that we insist on - you yourself have approved. But there's more, because this cut not only goes against the norm, it's irrational and inopportunity because we're in front of one of those rare sights, a school where the registration increases. It must be remembered that in the past course at ICC Mirandas had a total of 79 pupils and pupils of children, distributed in 6 classes, with 6 masters and 2 support, as the catalogue established. Despite the significant increase in enrolment this year, as children and children increased in 15 at this educational stage, you decided to eliminate one of the teachers who corresponded to them without explanation, without any consensus. For all this, the educational community, the leadership of the centre, the families, the full municipal, even the voice of the People's Party in Ares, who is a teacher at this center, insist on the urgent request for the coverage of this square, precisely because we are facing children and younger children, one of the educational groups that, as you will no doubt know, will require greater educational attention. That's why we ask, what reasons do they explain the failure to comply with the catalogue in this center?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u163	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning to all of you again. Mrs. Chao, in addressing educational matters we should all be aware that there are no fixed or permanent photos, so it is often necessary to make adaptations to ensure that all the students in Greece, regardless of where they live, are justly and adequately covered. The reality of each educational center is modified by the enrolment of each school course, so the needs of the student can vary from year to year, and therefore decisions must be made. So we often have to make adaptations, and that cannot be interpreted as non-compliance with general rules on catalogues. In this course 2018-2019, the CPI As Mirandas, of Ares, has passed from 94 pupils in childhood and 216 students in primary education to 77 and 216 students respectively from the previous course. In view of this data, the organization of the centre was established in 6 units, or classes, in childhood education, with an average of 15 pupils per class; and 11 units in primary education in operation, with an average of 19 students per class. So it's obvious that the ratios, both in children and in primary schools, are far below the ratio of 25 pupils per class legally established. Thus, given the low number of pupils per class, the teaching staff of teachers of children is 7, while in primary education is 10. While the endowment of teachers specialists in therapeutic pedagogy is 2, instead of 1, which is the one marked by the catalogue. What they criticise as failing to meet the catalogue is really a double adaptation to educational needs, which implies replacing a teacher as a child with the reinforcement of a specialist in therapeutic pedagogy; the question of which is not spoken, when it is more beneficial to the student's whole of this center of Ares. The decision by the Educational Inspectorate to increase the provision of a specialist in therapeutic teaching, in addition to the one given by catalogue, allows, on the one hand, to strengthen the centre's guidance department and, consequently, to focus on diversity and on specific educational support needs. And, on the other hand, by lowering the student ratio, this specialist will be able to respond to the support provided by the catalogue, in addition to the specific interventions of the guidance department. In addition, being part of a centre with 11 primary units in operation means that the student can participate in the benefits of the specialized faculty, which involves strengthening the work of specialists in English and hearing and language, which correspond to six children's education units, with the teaching care of a second English specialist, one in French, one in musical education, two in physical education and two in therapeutic teaching. Another important aspect of these characteristics in the centre and which needs to be taken into account is the possibility that teachers of different specialties can provide support in the units of the second cycle of childhood education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u164	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Chao Pérez has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u165	Thank you, Counselor. Look, the question was concrete: what reasons do they explain the non-compliance of catalogues in this center, but below, not above? You might try to distract your attention by talking about PT, but you know perfectly well that PT is not a child education specialist, which is what we're talking about. We want to talk about childhood education, not remedies, not extra hours left by other specialists, and then we'll see how we covered up. No, it's true that in your catalogue -- which we didn't write -- you wrote it -- it says "eight children's specialists." And you decided to delete one without any explanation. You didn't give it here. Is it true now to meet the catalogue...? Well, what's the catalogue then? We'd like him to explain that to us on his own. Is it wet paper? It's a fixed picture. Now, when laws don't like us, let's say, nothing, it's a fixed picture. We take note, it's a fixed picture and, of course, as reality is changing we're going to change. Well, change the catalogue, maybe you have to adapt the catalogues, of course. Of course we have to adapt the catalogues to the very large needs of the educational centres that you are not covering. We have to adapt the catalogues when we have children and children with difficulties in the educational centres that are not having the specialists either in PT or in the AL they need. Let's adapt the catalogue, we really cover people's needs, but it can't be that the catalogue is not covered under it. That's, of course, what we can't assume. The bottom line is whether this is going to be the policy of your advisor. Will you continue — it seems so — by the short-sighted path of your predecessor in office? Will you be committed to the accounts and not to Galician citizenship? Will the portfolio continue to dominate the interests of Galician girls and children? Because, look, Counselor, today is Ares, a small school in our country, which you say defends so much, which needs quality services, nearby, to be a living place, to be able to fix population. We're talking about 94 children and girls who have to have the same rights as children who go to schools in the center of Santiago, the Coruña or Vigo, who aren't told that it's like not to have a child specialist "because, total, you have an PT," no. They have the right to a service of the highest quality, close to and tailored to their needs. The abolition of a teaching square for the most children is an important loss for the student of this educational stage, it is supposed to deprive them of a master specialist; a loss especially sensitive to children who start their education and therefore require special attention. That's why there's this specialty. In his hand is positioned on the side of the norm and the rights—of course, that fixed picture which does not deserve his attention—that is, to regain the square unjustly removed, or on the side of arbitrariness and misery. In his hand is, finally, telling the people of Ares, people from all over the country, whether he's going to have the same rights as the rest of the citizenship or whether the catalogue is being fulfilled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u167	...will be a whim to use when you're interested.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. For the Government's reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u169	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Chao, my first intervention was of a technical nature, very technical nature. Because, once again, you intend to make politics and use your argumentary of cuts without paying attention to the reality of the educational world. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In view of the above explained regarding the number of pupils per class, it can be concluded that the lack of the second teacher in child support education in the ICC As Mirandas, of Ares, does not mean a decrease in the educational care received by this student or in the quality of his education. In addition, this student is a child student, and that of a child benefits from a specialist in therapeutic pedagogy beyond the catalogue. In a strict sense, neither does it imply failure to comply with the general rules on the catalogue because these general rules can really be adapted to the reality of the student enrolled in the center. You criticize one part and miss another because at this educational center in Ares there is a double adaptation to educational needs, which implies the loss of a child teacher by not covering retirement but also the reinforcement of a specialist in therapeutic pedagogy, which they avoid talking about. Thus, what presents as a cut is really an improvement in the organization of the teaching resources of the centre, given the new reality of the centre in this school, formed by, first, the type of center — whereas it is not the same as a child centre as a primary school—; second, the enrolment data—then it is not equal to having a ratio of 25 pupils per class than ratios of 15 pupils per class—; third, the set of teaching skills of the centre — whereas it is not the same as having eight teachers of child education, an English specialist and one of hearing and language that has a real provision of seven teachers of children, ten primary students, two of English philosophy, one of French philosophy, one of music education, two of physical education, two of therapeutic and one of hearing and language— In addition, the hourly availability of the primary and children's teacher, excluding specialists in caring for diversity and discounted hours of custody, also offers a margin of hours for reinforcements and support in the different classes. That's why we understand that the faculty of the ICC As Mirandas, of Ares, meets the needs of the children's and primary students, who will continue to receive the quality education they have received on equal terms with the rest of the educational institutions. In the face of criticisms and alarms that are too often moved from the opposition, the whole of society has to understand that education resources are the ones that the Education Administration has an obligation to organize fairly so that the whole of the German student, the backbone of our education system, is justly covered by his needs. And we can't forget that the proper organization of resources is and will be contributing to improving the quality of the teaching of Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u170	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Mr. Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. of En Marea, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the impulse of the endowment of the province of Lugo with an integral reference center for people diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders, TEA
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u171	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u172	Yes, first of all, they apologize for the inconveniences of politics. I think it's what we've all come to. In this question, we're going to talk about fences, Counsellor, about the fences that still remain in society to really be an inclusive society. And we're going to talk about fences because women — because they're basically women — of the associations that work in the wake of the autism spectrum disorders in Lugo province have offered us a very revealing analogy that we want to move here. All of us are aware that a person with reduced mobility who goes on a wheelchair cannot literally be asked to skip a fence. But we ask people with TEA every day in teaching, socialization, jobs, attitudes that are valuable to them. So go ahead, then, that this question is also to specifically ask for greater awareness in the issue of how autism is dealt with. But the question is very specific, whether the Union will contribute to the existence of an integral treatment centre in Lugo province for people with autism spectrum disorders. Why? Because we're talking about a province that has so far no centers of attention to people with autism. Now it seems that the center of the day is finally unblocked. But we appeal that the Union, as responsible for social policies, does not drift away, does not disburse, responsibility in associations, council or deputation of the obligation to guarantee equality for all people. And obviously it's not the only need of Lugo province to have an integral center. Why? Because we're also talking about the diagnosis of ASD being fundamental. And it's complex the diagnosis, it's done in the early years of life. And for that, early treatments are also fundamental, so that therapies are as effective as possible. And in this sense, we also take advantage of the question to denounce once again the historical delay in our community with regard to the early deployment of care, this fundamental service to ensure that children with developmental disorders are better able to develop their abilities as much as possible. We have the 2019 budgets there, Lugo is still on top of the Galician queue, and with only two units of proximity. And besides, in the child rehabilitation unit and early care of the HULA there's only one place of speech -- we remember this -- and you have a waiting list. We constantly talk about the precariousness of means to meet the equality of all people. Why are we asking for an integral center? Because it's a proposal that the Raiolas and Capaces associations have transferred to us and that seems perfectly appropriate and necessary to the province of Lugo. We hope that the Union will commit itself to it. Because an integral centre would allow for individualised treatments, so necessary for people with ASD, to also have not only socialization workshops, not only a therapeutic day centre, but also workshops and opportunities to prepare for the labour market. Because these people have specific needs and specific difficulties.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u174	And what we do know is what it means not to have a center in our province. It means displacement, it means breaking routines of people with TEA. And even it meant that people with TEA had to move to other centers, to get attention they need. So we're waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The Government has the floor with the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u176	Thank you, President. Members and Members. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, the aim of the Galician Union is that our community is the best place to be born, to grow, to live and to grow. That's why we especially have those people who, because they were born with different abilities, face more difficulties in their daily lives and need the support of the Galician society to overcome them. Guaranteeing people with different abilities, and their families, proper attention to their needs is a priority for this Government. That's why since 2009 we've created more than 1,100 new public spaces for disability care. This is a 25% increase over the year 2009. Increase that places Galicia in the total number of 5,438 public squares available to people with different capabilities. In addition, the budget for disability has increased by 58% since 2009. And in the draft budget law that is already in this Parliament, there is a further increase of about 3% of the funds earmarked for disability by next year 2019. We're talking about, ladies and gentlemen, that the Galician Union is going to spend around 106 million euros on disability care in 2019, 41 million euros more than nine years ago. In addition, our commitment to strengthening the attention to disability has not only been quantitative, with more funds, but also qualitative, with more resources available to the Greek families. So, for example, to prevent and address developmental disorders as soon as possible, the Early Warning Network was created, which is now composed of 16 units serving 92 Greek municipalities, and to which we increased the budget by 13%. In the case of people with TEA, the commitment of the German Government has been translated into concrete progress: specific protocols of action in the education system, agreements of collaboration with the various social entities in Galicia, more public squares or installation of pictograms in the administrative building of San Caetano so that all people with TEA who need to do any process find adapted and accessible facilities. People with TEA need qualified professionals to stimulate them, form them, and help them become more and more autonomous. And in the province of Lugo we have 822 disability care facilities supported by public funds. In addition, children with TEA of Lugo can receive professional services from the five early care units in this province. And, as I said at the beginning, the engagement of Together with people with TEA and their families is beyond doubt and we will always continue to strengthen it. Of course everything is likely to improve. Despite all the advances I've just exposed you, like disability care centers or early care units, there's still a lot left to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u178	...but we'll always keep moving this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u179	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u180	Yes, see how easy the question was!, it was if the Board committed itself to the need for an integral centre for treatment of autism spectrum disorders in the province of Lugo. Because -- I repeat -- if our country is the best place to grow, if it is the best place to grow the province of Lugo, why do children and children with autism, then, when they are already young and young, have to move from their places, even have to change and break their routines to go to a center? Why in 2017, 2018, in the 21st century, were there children who in order to be able to cover their therapies had to resort to Caritas? We've been transferred to associations working with autism in Lugo. Why, if it's the best place to grow, is this network of Galician attention early on that so much boast is still so precarious, because it's not true that we have coverage throughout the territory? Where do people, boys and girls go from the south of the province, for example? They have to go to Lugo, don't they? It's about to increase the budget. But, let's see, the budgets presented in 2019 for early attention are just 18.8% of the investment that would be needed to cover all the population that might need early attention, which would be 5% of the child from 0 to 6 years old. We're not worth it. And where are the five units of the province of Lugo? It corrects us, but it's the near one of the Navy, the new Worldman and the unity of the HULA — who lacks logopedia. Are you expecting me to open some more? On top of that — as we will speak in another committee — that bureaucratic galimates, that unstable funding that they have for early attention, really disincentives the municipalities to have this service. Look, it's also not the best place to grow the province of Lugo when a student with autistic spectrum disorder is told that, to go to the special education center, rather than take a 50-minute trip ride to more than two hours, more than two hours with sleep disorder, which also often have these people with TEA — a student from the Founce. And above all, Junta almost tells her to disincentive and to continue going to this special education centre, when you can also go to these centers until you are 21, even though you are 18.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u182	In short, we want to commit ourselves to services that guarantee equal opportunities. It's not worth saying that this is the best place to grow up when people, when children with economic difficulties, can't access their therapies, the therapies they need. We want a compromise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u184	...with an integral center of autism attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u185	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, the Social Policy Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u186	Thank you, President. I'm going back to what I was saying before. We cannot yet be satisfied with the attention of people with disabilities. We can't say yet that our efforts in this area are complete. We obviously have to keep improving, allocating more funds and creating more centers with an ever-increasing specialization. But we can't help but see the great progress that has been made since 2009. In 2009, we had less than 4,400 public disability care squares, today we have 1,100 more public squares. In 2009 the province of Lugo offered less than 600 public squares for this group. Today this province has 37% more squares. In 2009 the early care units only covered 15 municipalities throughout Galicia. Today the number of municipalities benefited multiplied by six. And where are they? In the province of Lugo, three of the early-warning Galician network, which covers 15 municipalities in Lugo, two in that city — Lugo city — and Burela. Does this mean that everything is already done and that we can put our arms down? Well, obviously not, there's still a lot to do, but it means we're moving along the right path. Over the past few months, we have introduced improvements and significant axillization in disability assessment processes, and we have reinforced 74% of the number of teams. And I can assure you that these measures will continue to come. And in the province of Lugo we will continue to support with public funds the important work they do in their institutions such as the mothers of St. Vincent of Paul, Aspanaes, Cogami or Fudace, among many others. And we will continue to support and be close to the association of people with TEA Raiolas, with which we have already collaborated in the co-financing of a socio-health program and with another information, guidance and psychosocial support to the family caregivers of people with TEA, and with whom we also collaborate in the field of education. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen, this year 2019 the budget for maintaining disability markets supported by public funds in the province of Lugo is going to increase by 6%, because the commitment of the Greek Government to disability is permanent and unbreakable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u187	Thank you very much, Counselor. Before we move on to the next question, we welcome the Provincial Association of Consumers and Users of the Coruña, which is visiting us, and also, logically, the rest of the guests of the various parliamentary groups and the Presidency. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and six other Members of the G.P. Most people in Galicia on the Galician Union programmes aimed at increasing the consumption of milk
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u188	To put the question, Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, let's ask you this question but first I want to congratulate you on the new position, which I think you deserve. You're called to work for Galicia and all the gain. That's first. Secondly, we want to ask you about the dairy sector. You know that the dairy sector is living a certain price stability and is also living a certain stability in its transformation. I mean, there we could all agree that we had to take more important steps to move on. You know and you know all the honourable Members that the dairy sector is very important and is fundamental to the workers in the sector and to the whole of Galicia. Without a doubt, the dairy sector has become — as you well know — a fundamental transformation in its genetics, that is, in the cattle it is currently on farms. Then genetics plays a fundamental role and that's why I ask you to keep investing in genetics and keep betting on laboratories as it might be Genetics Fontao. In that dairy production, food is also essential; that is, if we want to have a quality milk product, we need to know perfectly well that this country's livestock is making a great effort to improve its food through forage. I mean, we don't only have intensive farms anymore, but also extensive and semi-expensive. Today is a reality of pastoral milk, as many of our livestock had previously produced. And I'm glad, and the entire People's Parliamentary Group, that we keep moving forward and putting in value those gloves that are betting on the pastor. In my neighborhood, and in the whole of Galicia, I think we have to keep moving forward. And we have to keep moving forward in animal welfare policies. Without any doubt, this marks Europe — many of our animal welfare policies — but we have to be able to adapt. We can't say that this is something banal or something less important. No, animal welfare policy plays a key role in livestock farming. A good livestock, a good gain in facilities in perfect conditions, with its regulatory measures, is also essential for quality milk. No doubt, I gave him three important points: food, genetics and animal welfare. That turns into a high-quality dairy product. And we think it's very important to work to enhance the consumption of milk in all areas of society, in all. That's why I ask you what programs the Galician Union develops to increase the consumption of milk among our consumers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Vega, for your congratulations. Thank you. I have to say, first of all, of course, that the dairy sector is of fundamental importance in our rural areas and we have to work among all to increase the consumption of milk among consumers and, in addition, why this banalization, as you said before, of milk is lost. The Galician Union is working with three major programs today to increase milk consumption: the school milk aid program, "Galega 100%" and the project plan. Speaking, first of all, of the school milk aid programme, this is an integrated measure in the CAP. You all know that we are now discussing this subject, but there we are also working to support our dairy sector. In Galicia this aid is managed by a very important body, which is the Galician Agricultural Guarantee Fund. And although we have had some drawback in its operation in the implementation of this programme, the fact is that, from the 2017-2018 course, the European Union established a new aid scheme and merged the previous school fruit and milk programmes into one school, which is now called "The school program of fruit, vegetables and milk". The main novelty is that the distribution of milk in schools is funded 100 percent by the Galician Union. What are the purposes here? Increase the consumption of milk in schools, promote regular consumption habits in students and stabilization of Galician markets. As I said, subsidized to 100 percent, we arrived this year at 222 centers throughout Galicia and we benefited more than 85,000 students, with a total budget of 750,000 euros. The "100% gaga" program is an important bet of this consultancy for supporting the origin of our milk. We have to defend the quality of Greek milk. And finally, with the Project Plan, in collaboration with the Education, University and Vocational Training, Health and Sea councils, we work on the milk modality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u192	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u193	...in the program "Feed well."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u194	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, thank you for the answer. It's a short time that they give us, but it's true that you answered in perfect conditions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Beyond laughter, I find it very important that all of these projects which are developing the Galician Union in coordination with the European Union are being developed. Without doubt, we are in constant connection with civilization and with the advance. No doubt, I think there are sometimes certain speeches that can lead to confusion, and I'd like you to reflect on the price of milk and everything that's happening in the dairy sector. As I said earlier, the dairy sector is experiencing stability. That doesn't mean that we have to conform, but it must be said with total tranquillity that the dairy sector does not lead marches of demonstrations. Others would probably want that to happen. The dairy sector today is working hand in hand with the Administration. And when certain milk prices are said, we're confusing the message. Today there's no price on milk at all farms. Because they say on many occasions, "No, milk is paid to 30 cents." No, no, no, milk in a lot of groceries, you know that you pay for quality, and in a lot of groceries you're charging the price of milk at 35 cents or 34 cents. And you have to explain, perfectly, one, that milk pays it to the company, not the Public Service. Second, you pay for it on a quality basis. And that's the message we have to launch. And we also have to say that eco-milk is paying 0.50 cents. I think this is important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u196	Thank you, Mr. Vega, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u197	And I think you have to tell us what situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u198	Mr. Vega, time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking precisely of the dairy sector, which I repeat is very important to us in the development of our rural areas and is also a power at European level, I have to say that it is making a restructuring of the production model towards more efficient and profitable holdings. The progressive increase in production in recent years indicates a positive trend in consolidating the competitiveness of the sector. Look, between August 2017 and the same month this year, production in Galicia has grown to 2.6%. And the increase accumulated over the last two years has reached almost 6%. Regarding the price, the truth is it's kept steady at the 30.3 cents per litre line this past year. In addition, compared to August 2016, there is an increase of 11.4% in the price charged by the owners. And, as you rightly pointed out, there are differences, but you're observing that there's a clear tendency to rise. It is clear, therefore, that the resizing of the sector does not affect the total production of milk. In fact, our community producers bill in 2017 an impressive figure, something more than 775 million euros, which represents a 9% increase in the previous year. There is a clear process of professionalization and resizing the sector. It is clear that nearly 800 individual holdings have been integrated into societies in recent years. This isn't bad, it's the strengthening of the sector. Today we have the announcement of a new merger, more than 3,000 cooperatives who are likely to merge — Aira and Cusovia me —. So we also have another interesting good news, which is that one in ten farms is currently run by young people under the age of 30. In the years 2016 and 2017 more than a thousand young people joined the dairy sector. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, continues to be a national leader in both number of livestock and dairy production, and also advances in the momentum of transformation and put into value of milk. This must be our bet, value added, price increment. What's Joina doing here? We support this line of work and we arrive every year about 30 million euros for the transformation of agri-food products. In this milk sector this year we have reached a planned investment of EUR 64 million in transformation projects. Therefore, good news for our dairy sector, the dairy sector that lives at a time of stability. There is more and more balance and transparency in the operation of the milk value chain. In this sense, we expect all of us to be in the dairy sector and we all work hard to convince that it will continue to be one of our engines in our rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u200	Thank you, Counselor. We are now debating two questions accumulatingly: Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the necessary measures to avoid in the next episodes such as the wave of fires that struck Galicia in October 2017 Question by Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the balance sheet made by the Galician board of amendments to forest policy, on the prevention and extinction of forest fires, one year after the October 2017 fire strike and after the end of the special study commission on this issue
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u201	He starts by asking the question Mr Rivas Cruz of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He warned in 2006 and took deep-seated measures that were aborted in 2009 by an eager PR of revenge and drunken of an election result that they didn't count on. Lost nine years in service to the Cence and the board in the form of permissivity and anachronistic, chaotic and dangerous forests, October 2017 sends another errand that provides a crane bath reality to the superb and glorious government of the eucalyptus. The 49,000 acres in three days, four deaths, countless losses and frustration in the souls of the Greeks demand a facewash and a staging that, without going to the root of the problem, the structure and management of our territory, causes people the propaganda effect of what is being done but not doing anything. And it generates the thirty measures of shame. Because, Counsellor, the thirty measures announced by the President, in addition to the few, proved to be a compendium of lies, in particular with regard to the recovery aid of the burn and more to the management of the safety strips; and both secondary ones, those who do not give them the future, as well as the tertiary ones, who are not managed because the Union and the State does not want to and do not touch them. But the most serious thing is that the prevention aid was reconvened in February and resolved in August, when it's high-risk time and prevention is late in many places. Go! Go! , as always. Nothing's changed. And finally, the necessary measures of silence, which are the management of the territory, the mosaic, the overcoming of the atomization of the property going to an exploitation of the mountain in society where the individual property is scarce, these measures are still in the inkkeeper and there is no pen to write them. Because it's necessary to have political courage and more certainty about the country. This certainty is not marked by the vows, it is marked by faith in the potential of this country, land and people, and in the sustainable and multifunctional use of the territory for the benefit of all. Because all of us, not just a few, make up what we've been calling Gallaecia for over 2,000 years. And that's all of them. The chaos in management, climate change, the unbridled policies of indiscriminate afforestation and a disregard for the common sense makes us continue to be at the mercy of what meteorology warns and the skeletons of four naïves mark. That's why, by the fact that you haven't changed anything, and by sharing the fear of Galician society to every smoke-threatening thing that's going on on the horizon, it's why we ask this question, counselor, knowing, yes, that just a month ago he's taken possession but also knowing that he's a continuation of failed policies with the rural environment of the government of what he's part and that he has been obliged to answer throughout the year that has passed since the generalized flames disturbed our hearts. Do you consider that the necessary measures have been taken since the Government of Galicia to avoid in future episodes such as the three days of October 2017?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u203	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. The floor is now Mr. Blanco Paradelo, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, you've seen nothing. I hope in your answer make this perfectly clear. A few weeks ago several fires were produced in Galicia, highlighting what was developed in Mondariz, which brought to the memory of all the events a year ago in the terrible wave of fires in October 2017, in which, among other damage, we have to regret four deaths. And we also want to send from here a sincere and caring memory to their families. As you could hear, some loud and fast spokespersons and political leaders of the parties that are in the House today came out, as if they were waiting for them. [Or even it might seem, it might seem! they had even been wishing] to carry against the Board of Galicia, and even against you, who had been appointed rarely there were a few hours counsellor of the countryside. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure)]] And everything for what? [[Murmurs.]] To justify your refusal to want to be part of a large country agreement that we have reached between the Socialist Group and the People's Group. Now we have to hear that we are told that there is a lack of courage for those who prefer to vote rather than to continue ideologically defending their positions. It was a work of a study commission, which is obvious, in which 60 representatives from different spheres of society participated, of which 41 were proposed by the opposition groups. He had 47 requests for information, 32 of which were also included in the opposition proposals; two months of appearances, two months of work in presentation, different meetings, a total of eight hard-working months that brought with him a document of 123 measures and, as I say, they provided a country agreement between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. While the Nationalist Block Galego and In Marea, although they shared more than 80% of the recommendations, they preferred — in a very brave way, as we can see — to stand aside and vote against — they could also abstain — with a goal that from my point of view was clear: to stage a "no" to continue using this issue and to try to get election performances with partisan intent and not think about the country. We had to hear that the PP has a plan to exterminate the countryside and even Mr. Villares said, "You, with the study commission, want to whiten out your calcined consciences." A real shame what we had to hear! That's why, Counselor, today we want you to balance everything you've done this year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u205	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Mr. White Paradelo, there's that expression and I think nobody wants the fires back. We're taking her out. Do you agree, do you agree that we remove that expression? Yes, you said that expression. No, no! [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, I've been watching the debate. No, no! [[Strong murmurers.]] I ask Mr. Blanco Paradello if he retires... [[Strong murmurers.]] Please! I'm asking Mr. Blanco Paradelo. I'm asking you if you remove the expression "if you want the fires to return."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u206	I said, "Even it may seem, it may seem!" It was well tinted, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u207	But anyway, we took her out. The expression is removed. No one here wants the fires back, no one. Let's keep that, which is the important thing. May the fires never come here again, please! Counsellor's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u208	Mr. President, good morning, again. I have to say that of the 75 we are here, of course what was in Mondariz until 3:30 in the morning that day, heeding the fires, of course it was me. And I had the opportunity to look at something I have to say here: that Galicia has a magnificent firefighting service, at the height of the world's best. Why don't you start your speeches by saying that, or don't you? [[Applause]] Why don't we all do it? Look, some data are especially relevant to measure this effectiveness: in the percentage of conatos with respect to the total number of sinisters, in which Galicia is ten points above the average of Spain; or the speed with which it reacts after the warning. By the way, in Mondariz the warning was from a cassette, from those who say they're closed. I myself had an opportunity to prove it in this fire in Mondariz. In 13 minutes we already had a helicopter there, but it's only in an hour and a half, from 18.30 to 19.59 -- which is until the helicopters can fly -- that we had 11 helicopters that made 88 water points discharges, that we're all organizing as a country. We have an exceptional service. Here's my recognition to all those who participate in extinction: emergency services, security forces and bodies, as well as people who voluntarily collaborate, these citizens, and the mayors and concellers who suffer from them in their own flesh. I've been with the mayor's lieutenant and the mayor's mayor, I've checked that pain perfectly. But in a special way, ladies and gentlemen, I have to transfer thanks to the staff of my council, of which I am particularly proud, to the heads of all the units involved, to the technicians, to the forest agents in their different categories and scales, to the forest firemen, to the brigade chiefs, officers, drivers, pilots, pilots, pilots, helicopter squadmen, second-engine officers, the broadcasters, the coder operators, the regular monitors and the technicians of the heliported brigade. As far as the media are concerned, I also want to refer to the media of the state, the municipalities and the supra-municipal emergency groups. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 5,000 people have formed the operation to which we will never be grateful enough. Well, in replying to what the questions of your lordships refer to, I have little to add to the thirty measures, which today has magnificently reported to our president. The first thing I have to say is that a wave of fires like the one in October 2017 is very difficult — and we all know — not to say impossible, to stop; and above all considering the exceptional climate situation that happened. I know it, and you, gentlemen, know it too. The truth is that everything is better, but I must point out that there has been an exceptional reaction as a whole and that it has also reacted politically by holding hands to all groups to reach a country agreement. At the meeting of the President of the European Union, see the 30 measures — he made it clear earlier — at the meeting of the President of the European Union. Today we meet 22, and another 6 are started or will be fully completed this 2018, or at the beginning of 2019. And there are two that, of course, for their supposed work, if they have to go collect in time. I say: I am surprised, Mr. Rivas, because, first, the measurements were the repetition of the Bipartite, they were a wonder, and now they are useless, they do nothing. They need to clarify themselves a little bit in relation to the measures. I say they're good measures. And besides, as far as the fight against fires is concerned, I want to highlight the following. The first — measure 1 — collaboration of the Union and the municipalities to finance the cleaning of the mountains. Hey, we're signing an agreement with Fegamp, and right now -- I had 144 data -- just told me that we have 152 municipalities in this agreement. Aren't the Town Councils right, either? Is this agreement bad for the municipalities that are signing it? In addition, consider something else: along with the recommendations of the ruling, you have already announced that this agreement will provide administrative support and reinforcement to the municipalities. We understand that, even though it's their competition, we have to be there to support them. We're going to make a very big effort so that the Greek municipalities in most cases contain a plan of extinction this same year. We also have the assurance that 100 percent of the rural municipalities have firefighters or brigades -- you talk to their mayors to make an effort in this area too -- because of the proximity of the municipal brigades to conquer extinction. And I also tell them to talk to the deputies too, so they can help out on this subject, so that what happened in Mondariz doesn't happen. We also collected a number of measures in points 9, 10, 11 and 12, which they came to clarify a law, which, although it is done in 2007, needed clarifications. And we continue this year in the Law of measures by making these clarifications to improve the defense against this firecracker. And a spectacular measure—which Mr. Villares said before there was none—is that we have surveillance cameras. Of course we have them! We have a total of surveillance cameras with an investment of 2 million euros, which come, as the president said, to 67% of the high-intensity incendiary parishes. Please, from here I beg the representatives of the parliamentary groups in the 7th Commission to accept the invitation I make to them and to come to the command centre in Santiago, and to check the effectiveness and operation of these surveillance cameras, which have greatly increased the allocation of resources — especially all air — in this fight against the fires. I also want to talk about the help — and I will continue in my reply. But we speak, firstly, of 23 million euros, and take into account that all the measures that have been taken to restore soil has always been with the support of technicians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u209	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] Mr. Rivas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, we sat down working on that committee, and we discussed, and we attended, and we were there. You didn't have the decency to sit in 2006, did you? There's a difference. [[Applause]] Mr. Blanco Paradelo, we, none of our organization, took pictures of white shoe, white shirt, and ridiculous hose. Fuck! We were quiet and we went to collaborate where we could. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Have a bit of humility, PP gentlemen, as for the fires, a little bit of humility because it goes to their hair. Because one day, as in October 2017, he turns against the whole country, and you too. We know, Counselor, the good quality of our extinction service. But we also know of the mistreatment you've been giving him all these years, don't we? We also know that it's not just wages, nor is it just hours of work. [[Applause]] It's also organisational, training, approval. All of this is there and you throw balloons out with a commission of experts. We'll see what the expert committee can do. Leave the action taken, or badly taken, for the reply, because it did not abound in them. Leave them for now, that I have no chance of answering. Look, in 2017, they numbed the country by shutting down the public media. And as for the Union and the Fegamp agreement, I'm just telling you, they're making a lousy blackmail to the municipalities. I'm telling you so clearly and crudely. What does a municipality with 250 square kilometers and 2,000 population inhabitants do with everything they have to manage? [[Applause]] What are you doing? Collapsa, collapsa! And you signed that agreement because, besides, what you didn't stick to is what's happening to Mondariz now, which is in the mouth of all of you, for ridicule. Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u211	Thank you, Mr. Cruz, your time is up. [[Applause]] Mr. Blanco Paradello's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we just heard like some groups, without being nominated, without being nominated, they're already being referred to. And they have very fine skin. [[Murmurs.]] Because "we love the country," we do a "squeaky blackmail," our "matan" policies... and then we can't say that "assumingly..." or "it seems that some of them might be wanting..." I think that some attitudes and ways of expressing themselves equally ratify me in what I previously exposed in the first intervention. [[Applause]] I mean, Counselor, that you have thanked, on behalf of the Greek Government, all those who participated in the extinction workshops. And we also want to do it and say that you did it right to do it with everyone, not as some mayor did, who cannot be named in this Parliament, a southern town, who pulled out a sectarian pamphlet and who thanked everyone but the employees of the administrations, such as the brigadiests, the forest agents and the environment. That proves that, when one is a sectarian even to give thanks, it means that, on the one hand, those thanks are not sincere and, on the other hand, that seeks to calculate a political profitability with a false thanks. That's why you did very well with all your heart to thank all those who worked in the extinction work. I would like, before we finish, as we did the other day in the committee, to insist again on calling on the rest of the political groups to join that great country pact, on that great country agreement, on what we agreed between the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group; and to abandon the ideological trench to push — I think now what it is to push — the strict compliance of each of these measures. Mr. Rivas, you said, "if it happens again." We already know that, if a terrible wave of fire happens again, you'll be in the banners. Where are you going? They won't be working! That's what they're gonna do! [[Applause]] We already know! [[Murmurs.]] And, therefore, Mr Counsellor — already appointed President, five seconds — ended by telling him that we take his glove of collaboration and can count on the Popular Parliamentary Group. We will really try to join other parliamentary groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u213	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Close this question by the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. I, first of all, understand the heat of the debate, and more in the plenary, which usually happens. But, Mr. Rivas, the "squeaky blackmail" to the municipalities to get them to the convention... bring me only one of those mayors who have blackmail! Bring it to my office! Get him to see who blackmailed him! [[Applause]] Please! Look, speaking, Mr. Rivas... tell me the time, Mr. President. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm only six minutes away from what I have to say. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Speaking of the device, Mr. Rivas, let's see, this year, in 2018, 100 percent of the forest fire prevention and defence service squares were covered, with 137 more people hired. You've reached an agreement with the forest agents On strike they're gone, Mr. Rivas. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Look what it's like to go to the past can happen to you... [[Murmurs.]] Tragsa and Seaga staff are hired for four months. We all understand that the high-risk season has increased. We all understand October can be a dangerous month. And besides, this staff is going to work in the coming year five months; and in the other year, six months. Do you know what I'm asking all of you from here? That we all work in prevention, that we have to raise awareness of everyone, councils, deputies, workers too, and, of course, the Council of Galicia. [[Applause]] The network of cameras — which is a tremendous advance — and new technologies have to play here too. They also have a deterrent effect, there are fewer incendiaries as well. I could say here today the data on fire figures from 2018, and that's not the case, we didn't come here bragging about that. What we've come to say is that we have to keep working on that line. Another very important thing — which is a technical question but which the technicians confirm to me — is that we have more coordination helicopters, one more, which even allows us to see with a thermal chamber where the aircraft burns more so that they can decide where the water is best. These are very important measures that are already being noticed this year. Contracts for support to the municipalities and sub-ministers of motorcycles. Look, this year, 11; and we took 55 to the forest districts and 42 to the municipalities of Galicia; 55 tractors to the municipalities, he said before. Let's see, if we want to involve the municipalities in prevention, we're giving them tractors: 55 tractors in two years, with own funds, with tremendous effort. And by the way — for Mrs Rumbo — 34 out of 55 are not from PP councils, you do, uh! 34 of 55 tractors, eh! [[Murmurs.]] By the way, we also work, without any doubt, on the mobilization of productive land. Look, we were talking, and I had a chance to be with people — Mr Rivas — who I know is concerned about the countryside, the study committee. This study commission actually drafted a dictatorship — as the spokesperson of the People's Party had already said — in which 60 observers intervened. Many of them were picked up there, from all political colors, and ended up with 123 recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to announce here that the development of these recommendations is a strategic line of the Rural Council, and they are starting to take account of it from the very first moment on. Look, recommendations 39 to 45, which seek to strengthen collaboration between Together and municipalities for the management of biomass, will be collected in the agreement between Seaga and Fegamp, with a clear orientation, I want to make it clear, in support of the municipalities. And we want to go beyond the scope, we want that, where it is being pursued once, if it can be — we are trying and sure that, with the support of all, we will achieve it — there is a quality agribusiness. With regard to the firefighting service — I have explained it enough, but I repeat it again — there is a recommendation, to 60, which proposes a group of experts, in which we can all, by common agreement, appoint our representatives. At the meeting I had with the parliamentary spokespersons, I had already advanced the three names of each of the parliamentary groups. And I want to tell you here that, within two weeks, we will proceed to the establishment of that group of experts. And there you can talk about everything, but by experts, by people who know. And I have to say that the profile of the people you proposed is the right one, it's technical, it's what you have to believe that our service will improve as far as everyone's possibilities are concerned. There are also recommendations—and I have a commitment to implement them—to education, awareness-raising and awareness-raising of Greek society with fires. It's a problem, ladies and gentlemen, of all things. But there are also recommendations on the responsibilities that can be assumed if the plots are in a state of abandonment, the spread of the danger of the negligent use of fire, the need to denounce the incendiaries. Finally, there is also the need for greater professionalization and higher service training. I have here recommendation 108 — with a commitment to be made before the maximum risk season of the year 2019 — to develop a planned and orderly training programme for the prevention and extinction of fires for the staff of the service. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, together with these recommendations concerning the extinction of fires — and I have to tell the people of En Marea — we have, of course, collected recommendations concerning the planning and management of our mountains, the management of forest species — in particular of the eucalyptus, within the limits that the president has set before it — at the impulse, Mr Rivas, of the joint management of the mountain — we are bringing forward proposals for joint management instruments of the mountain, which we are going to collect, the professionalization of the forestry, in search of the multifunctionality of the mountain, with an extensive glove plan which this year devoted more than 1.5 million euros to the integral management of our territory, together with the mobilization of the productive land. Recommendations, all of them — and already finished — that are looking for a living and dynamic rural environment, where, with sustainable forest management of the mountain, quality farmers live together. This objective, ladies and gentlemen, must be achieved with our commitment, the commitment of all of us, because it will entail the revitalization of our rural area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u215	Thank you, Counselor. Before moving to agenda item 7... [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, why do you want the floor? [[Strong murmurers.]] No, no, please, please! I'll talk. If they're all starting to talk... You've been alluded to, but very refilón, about a given No, no, please! [[Strong murmurers.]] I'll talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You were alluded to but a lot of refilon about a data, it was alluded to as a refilon, and it's also a debate that came from yesterday. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, please, it was mentioned, yes sir! We're not here to deny the obvious. It was alluded to. I don't think you have too much connotation, but you have one second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. Although Mrs. Paula Prado doesn't like it, this is a right
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u217	Quiet, quiet! Let's have a quiet debate, that's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u218	Well, I'm just going to ratify myself in the data I presented yesterday, in which I presented, that 9 out of every 10 municipalities benefited are the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u219	Thank you. [[A lordship asks for the floor.]] No, I'm not giving the floor. No, I'm not gonna make it hard... No, it was a comment from there, it wasn't an allusion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] No, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna give it to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm not going to give it, it's a comment from the stage without more. [[Protests.]] No, that was not the intention. [[Protests.]] [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, I'm not giving the floor. No, I'm not giving the floor. [[Protests.]] Let's not complicate this any more. [[Protests.]] He's waiting for an appearance. That's it! I'm sorry! [[Protests.]] Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u220	I'm going to read an institutional statement before I get to the show. In particular, the institutional declaration — which has been submitted and approved by all groups — says: "The Galician Parliament wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the maintenance of activity and employment in Alcoa, as well as to transfer its support to workers and workers at the Coruña plant. We regret and reject the company's unilateral decision to close both the corrugated installation and the one it has in Avilés, and we ask it to look for alternatives to a factory that is a key piece of the Italian production fabric. The Galician Parliament is committed to encouraging all administrations to, from the unit of action, urge the Alcoa company to withdraw the job termination file that weighs on all workers and workers, and to open a negotiating table with all parties involved to find an urgent solution to ensure the maintenance of business and employment; and to provide security and enable all the electro-intensive companies to compete on an equal footing with the rest of the industries at the international level. The and representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks are committed to making a common front to continue to defend the rights of the workers and the workers of alcohol and the future of this industry in Galicia. Santiago de Compostela, October 24, 2018". This is the statement. [[Applause]] We've moved on to the show. Opinion of the Economic, Employment and Industry Adviser, on his own request, to report on the situation of Alcoa and the actions carried out by the German Government in the defence of jobs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u221	This is in keeping with the request made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Tide Parliamentary Group. So, in order to substance this attendance, Mr. Francisco Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I confess to you that I would like it to be another reason for this appearance, but circumstances force us to intervene today in this chamber to address what might be very bad news for Galicia, for Asturias and also for the set of Spain: Alcoa's unilateral decision to close its plants at Coruña and Avilés. That's why today my first words are of solidarity and closeness to the entire Government, to the 300 workers on the Coruña plant. And I really appreciate the presence here today, in this Chamber, both of the representatives of the Business Committee and of the trade union representatives. The Greek Government is very aware of the transcendence of this announcement and of the importance that we know how to give it an urgent and coordinated response from all parties involved, in addition to efforts and raising support, such as those I want today to request from the groups that make up this parliament. Not in vain, I had the opportunity yesterday to meet with the Secretary General of Industry, the President of Alcoa Spain and the UXT unions and the Workers' Commissions. The president of the Union made his own last Friday with the head of the Principality of Asturias, Javier Fernández, with whom he kept in touch from the very first moment, and also that same day met with the Alcoa Business Committee in Coruña. In that sense, our agenda, the Government's agenda is being opened because we are clear that this is a matter of priority. We have just sealed an alliance with the Asturias Government to jointly defend Alcoa's continuity, both in the Coruña and in Avilés, being in constant contact with the corporate committees to accompany at all times the workers' needs and claims. We also have an open and necessary dialogue with the Central Government, hoping that we will be able to implement measures that will allow the decision of Alcoa to be reversed and also that the exact reasons why Alcoa should make this decision can be clarified. There's no doubt that we're in front of some news that, unfortunately, if we see it coming. One saw it coming because, from time to time, political initiative is missing; that's the reality. They are missing answers from the central government to a decision that the electro-intensive industry, namely Alcoa, has been dragging for months -- a situation from which the Galician Union has been alerting the government since it took possession. Ladies and gentlemen, we think you can do more things. More can be done to put the electro-intensive industry compensation system into operation and to guarantee companies a stable and competitive electricity price. It is true that the current price of energy in Spain is seriously detrimental to the competitiveness of industry, particularly electro-intensive companies, which, in the case of Alcoa, accounts for 40 percent of their costs, but there has always been a government willing to come up with solutions. An energy mix-based planning has been developed in recent years to ensure the reasonable price of energy. Thanks to this planning, a surplus in the electrical system was achieved after taking on a tariff deficit in 2011 of EUR 30 billion. In addition, the system of interruption, which is compatible with Community legislation, has also been activated, as has been required — by itself — by reason of Alcoa. In 2012 the PP Government validated a post-war system that offered legal guarantee to the interruptability system, a system that in 2017 had to be reformed to ensure a greater competition according to which it once again requested the European Union. As a result of this new regulation, they know that companies get less pay, and that's why the previous government has given back an answer to electrointensive companies. He did so once again by approving a compensation mechanism validated by the European Union and, therefore, again, a compensation mechanism with full legal certainty. This new mechanism allows you to set aids to compensate indirect costs for CO2 emissions. That's why Mariano Rajoy's Government included a share of one hundred and fifty million euros intended to supplement the revenues by interruptability derived from the poxs of 2017 and 2018. I hope you share with me that it doesn't seem justifiable or reasonable that, just two months from the end of the year, it hasn't yet called the posse for the year 2019 and that neither at this point has the Government launched these compensation mechanisms. What is obvious is that we are in an economic and energy context of clear uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not generate stability to announce an energy transition plan, which just transcended that the goal is to close the thermal and nuclear power stations on the 2030 horizon, to correct. It doesn't generate stability to say that the diesel has the days counted, to announce a tax that then qualifies as a balloon probe and then correct and amend it again to collect it in the state's general assumptions. We could follow up with other examples that give good account of the instability scenario in which Alcoa's announcement is now taking place. An announcement that unfortunately brings with it a loss of seven hundred jobs in Spain — of which three hundred sixty would take place on the Coruña plant — and which would seriously affect the competitiveness of our industry, both in Galicia and Spain. But, above all, an announcement that, for what we have heard these days, seems to have caught the Executive of President Sánchez by surprise. That's what redoubles, if any, our concern; shows that the Government may not be accurately measuring the consequences it might have had, or perhaps Galicia does not seem to be on its agenda. And I'm saying this because at the meeting held by the President of the Galician Council and the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, last July, one of the issues that included Galicia in the Ministry's agenda for the Ecological Transition was precisely the system of interruption, and it was precisely thought about the situation of Alcoa. Later, this matter was also among those I myself had been able to address at the meeting that last August I held with the Secretary of the Energy State, José Domínguez Abascal. Again, administrative silence on the part of the Government. And at the Sectoral Conference of Industry, which took place at the beginning of this month, it was one of the themes that both Galicia and the Principality of Asturias we firmly transferred to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism so that the compensation mechanisms included in the 2018 budgets could be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Government has and has in its hands the possibility of executing the entire match of one hundred and fifty million euros in the general budget for this year's state. The question we ask ourselves is, why don't you? He had and has in his hands to summon the pause of interruption and to give continuity to the system to give more certainty to companies about the income they secure from providing this service. The question is, why don't you? In their hands it is also continuing with the system of compensatory aid for indirect CO2 emissions, which is authorized by Brussels and which would benefit companies like Alcoa. And the question is, why don't you? And he had and has, ladies and gentlemen, also in his hands to urge the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission to process a new regulation, which has been drafted by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, to make effective compensatory aid for renewable energies in certain industrial sectors. And the question, again, is, why doesn't the government do it? Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has the full support of the Galician Union. And it counts on the total support of the Galician Union because we have a common goal, which is to reverse the unilateral decision taken by Alcoa. And, therefore, we have the common objective — the Council of Galicia and the Government, together with the Principality of Asturias, to establish a concrete roadmap, in collaboration with the workers and the business committees, so that we have a concrete response and to give viability to the industrial activity of the plants of the Crown and of Avilés. And we do it out of responsibility for the 300 workers in the Coruña plant and because, if we persist in this lack of response, today we're talking about Alcoa, but tomorrow can be the turn of the thermal power stations, and next week it can be the crisis of the transport sector by "dezesel." Alcoa's decision and the government's indecision may be the forefront of a crisis in the industrial sector in Spain and Galicia that no one wants. Instead of working on the search for solutions, as has been done so far, we see that, since the arrival of the new Government, if you are launching erratic messages that only contribute to creating a climate of confusion, uncertainty and instability. The solution, ladies and gentlemen, is necessarily to establish an energy framework for the year 2019 that will assure all the electro-intensive companies about the system that will be of application next year, so we ask the Government to dialogue and take the initiative. And in that dialogue with all parties and on that initiative, you will, as I have said, count on the support of the Government and the Council of Galicia. At this point, therefore, we have a priority, and we must all bear in mind that this priority is only to safeguard the rights of the workers and the workers of Alcoa and to add ourselves to their claim, because their claim is the claim of all. The solution goes for Alcoa and the Government to put together solutions. Alcohol can put more of it on his side. First, by raising that employment regulation file to be able to address a negotiation process with all the parties involved and also to identify what needs and investments in technology or infrastructures allow for greater competitiveness in international markets. But we have to be realistic. In addition to Alcoa's decisions, we need the Government to take a step forward and provide concrete answers, such as clarification of the interruptability system for the year 2019 and also to implement the funds provided for in the 2018 budgets. The position of the Galician Union will, in any case, be to continue working so that that that unit of action that we are pushing among the workers, the autonomous communities and the Government will allow Spain to gain and, above all, that the hundreds of families that depend on its continuity can find a solution. We hope, finally, that among all of us will be able to get Alcoa to reconsider its position, that the Government will negotiate, that the Government will take the initiative and, for that, both will count on the support and work of the Council of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u223	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u224	Good afternoon. I want my first words in the name of BNG to be, precisely, to transfer support and solidarity to all the workers and to all the workers of Alcohol—but they are here today following this debate, also to those who can see this audience—and it is important that a clear message remains here today. The clear message to us is, first of all, that Alcoa does not close, that they are not walking alone on this path, that there is a whole country behind that claim because, of course, neither Galicia nor the Coruña can afford us the luxury of having destroyed a single industrial job in our country, and that it is necessary to make it very clear to the multinational that we will not accept their framework, nor accept what... I was a little concerned, Counselor, because he comes here and seems to have already pulled the towel. [[Applause]] He's a government that has no initiative in an issue that seems to us to be key to the future of our country. I've already told you that the BNG does not surrender, nor does it throw away the towel, nor does it accept that frame which designates a multinational to which, by the way, a Government of Mr. Aznar has given him a factory that is a strategic sector for our country. And in that sense, for us, it's just as outrageous as multinationals, after we squeeze the industries and the workers and not invest in their modernization, it poses this closure, both in the Coruña factory and in Avilés factory... it's so outrageous that this happens in a country where we produce electricity the ladder, which we're exporting electricity and we see as that wealth, which is a collective wealth, is not used for the benefit of the country to improve the competitiveness of our companies, to create quality jobs and, ultimately, so that we have a fair price of energy that not only allows consumers to have a cheaper light rate, but also to allow our country to develop. Obviously, we have seen this debate with the utmost concern about this challenge that is launching us Alcoa because we also know that we must be quick in the answer, because time plays against us and because, indeed, there is an open scenario. And the principle for us today has to be very clear in this debate is that we are going to guarantee 100 percent of the job in that factory, because the factory was already there before Alcohol, and Alcohol is not necessary for us to continue producing aluminum, both in the Coruña and outside our country, in Asturias. And to us, in that sense, it seems to us that it is very important that there is a clear position of country and that we have a Government, Mr. Conde, on our own initiative. We think the German Government cannot become a spectator or an arbitrator of what is happening right now and we ask him, Mr. Conde, to take a step forward. You have to say if you're willing to build here, among all of you, and also counting on the business side, a country proposal, a proposal that allows us to maintain 100 percent of Alcoa's employment. You have to decide whether you want to go to these meetings in Madrid simply to listen — it seems, too, that it is a bit more going as a militant of the People's Party — or whether, on the contrary, you prefer to go to defend the general interests of Galicia after consensual with all the political forces and also with the representatives of the workers and workers. You have to decide whether your Government is going to look elsewhere, whether you're interested in building a kind of account where it seems that what you're looking for is to see who we can take responsibility for this situation, or whether you actually articulate a Greek proposal that allows us to give alternative and future to the people of this country and that the Alcoa workers and Alcoa this Christmas can eat the quiet tower. Today, we — the President of Parliament — agreed among all the groups on an institutional statement. I believe it is important that the institutional declarations serve to really use this unanimous agreement that we already have in Parliament to do something and avoid the plan that the multinational has planned. And in particular, of course, we demand that this ERE be removed, but there is something that is as important to us as that, and that a negotiating table is opened to find an urgent solution to the problem that we have. And for us, this negotiating table has to be the framework where, from Galicia, we put the measures that we consider necessary to guarantee stability and give future prospects for production, not only from Alcoa, but also from other intensive companies, which we're going to see how they might be in the same situation. Because, indeed, there are uncertainties today. There's uncertainty because there's an ERE on the table and we have a legislation, Mr. Count, that wasn't born six months ago. That is, we have an electric market legislation that has approved a People's Party government with a majority in the Congress of Deputies and Deputies. That is the framework we have and, indeed, we can come here to find guilty, to an absolutely—I think— sterile from the point of view of the objective that we have to move, or, as a country, we also say that we have something to do when so many jobs are at stake and when there is a sector that is strategic for our economy. [[Applause]] That's what we'd like you to clarify in your speech, Mr. Conde. To clarify to us whether the Government of Greece is going to open that negotiating table, to call the social part and the business part, and that, in any case, if Alcoa does not want to sit on that table, we are moving forward together to defend Alcoa's employment, and that we have a proposal to put it on the central government table. Because my question, the question that I think many of the workers are asked is -- imagine -- what if the Central Government does not present any amendment to the legislation that the People's Party has approved? What are you doing? Are you going to these meetings to tell you that you don't like it or are you going to go to those meetings with a proposal that guarantees a new electrical framework for electrointensive companies and gives us stability towards the future? I think that's the central issue that you should answer us today in your intervention. Because, of course, we have a very worrying situation. It's much more than 300 sixty jobs, it's 300 families and a lot of indirect jobs, and also the whole economy that's generated around the production of Alcoa. And what can't be is that we have a government that isn't up to it. Today we have a portrait: you are alone in this audience, without being accompanied by one more member of the Government, on one subject......on a subject on which we would also like to see Mr. Feijó sitting in this debate, listening not only to what we have to say, but also listening to the reflections we are making on a topic so relevant to the present and the future. [[Murmurs.]] We need a government that is really up to it, Mr. Conde, that is willing to defend a country interest, to conform to a Welsh stance with which to negotiate before the Central Government and before Alcoa and, above all, to give us stability and prospects for the future. For that, of course, courage is needed, strength is needed and country vision is needed. We're playing with something very important, which is the bread of many families in this country, but we're also playing the future not only of Alcoa, but of many more electro-intensive companies in Galicia that need us to meet the circumstances. I already tell you that BNG is going to participate in all the forums that put in place with positive proposals and to meet a goal that seems to us to be key: that electricity must stop filling the pockets of those companies' managers and that, as Greeks and Greeks, we have the right to benefit from a wealth that is a collective wealth. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u226	Good morning. First of all, I want to greet all those who accompany us and express the solidarity of our group and our party with the Alcoa workers, who are in a tense situation because of the company's decision to present this extinct ERE. We've been with the Business Committee, we've been supporting you on Saturday's demonstration in the Coruña and we'll continue to do it. Mr. Conde, I had prepared an intervention from another substance, I have to tell you, but his words compel me to spend some time also expressing my concern for your position. Because first, it breaks the unity that we should all have in favour of an agreed solution between all the political forces for Alcoa, supporting the Government of Spain, who is working on it, and we also support the Council of Galicia from the opposition, because we believe that there has to be explicit social and political support for the actions of governments for the maintenance of jobs and the maintenance of industrial activity in the Coruña. But my concern is because I think what's behind your position is the search for an scapegoat and, therefore, you're already telling us that you've removed the towel, that you believe there's no real solution to Alcoa, and that's what worries me the most. We cannot adopt that position, Mr. Conde, we must tell everyone that there is the possibility of continuing to fight to keep these jobs and that industrial activity, and that is what we have to do. Because the situation is indeed extremely complex; it is complicated by the situation of the world-wide aluminium market, with that position in China, that Trump's tariffs are probably still worsening because they cause Chinese overproduction to end up orbiting other markets — including Europe — and the variability of energy prices in Spain in recent times. Of course, you say we need to change the regulation of the electricity market in 2019. It's a recognition that it's been working badly all this time and that, for seven years, Mr. Rajoy's government has not complied with what it should do, which was to give a future solution to the intensive industries and also to the whole of citizenship. [[Applause]] That's what you came to tell us here. Okay, I agree with that, but we support the central government and demand that they do what they can, in the short term and in the medium term. We demand it too, but we hold hands and try not to steal responsibility. What else did I care about everything? That you came here on behalf of the Council of Galicia and you were unable to say anything that they did beyond saying, "We warn you! We've been alerted... at last, they certainly didn't warn us in Parliament. His appearance was requested by the opposition. All this time, there has been no talk here of this matter at all. [[Applause]] First, he couldn't tell us what they did, really, to make the Alcoa plants in Galicia viable. And secondly, I don't tell us what she's not going to do with the Union alone, besides coming to criticize the central government when it's not done at the meetings that are held in Madrid. That's the difficulty with your position, Mr. Count, and compels us to be critical when we didn't want to be. We wanted to be behind a Galician board that collaborates with the central government and tells us that it will do the Igape in favor of the technological renovation of Alcoa plants to enable a solution. What you're going to do with the EIB's credits for a technological renewal of Alcoa plants to give a solution. Because part of the problem is that a company that was not gifted, but was sold at an excessively low cost and which quintupled in its profits what it had paid for the Alcoa plants, has made a very small investment for all this time that has affected mostly the plants of Coruña and Avilés and which today puts them in a less competitive condition. And we have to deal with that too, because that's part of the future problem, it's not just the problem of energy costs, but it's important. As you know, the company doesn't even talk about energy costs, it talks about organizational problems. I think energy costs are very important for the future, but let's also talk about the other issues, among them, and very relevantly, what happens to the technological renewal needs, with the investments of Alcoa plants. How far is he willing to go to Galicia? I also want to ask the Central Government to do the same, and to go as far as possible, in different areas; in the regulation of the short-term electricity market, indeed. We need to mobilize the funds that are in the budget, but you didn't tell us that in 2017 the amounts that were planned in the budget for the intensive industries were not mobilized by Mr. Rajoy's Government when he was in a more favourable political condition. He didn't say that either. [[Applause]] You have to start by recognizing things as they are. This year you have to fulfill what is in the budget, you have to do your best in that negotiation so that, through the interruptability auctions that are pending, you can favor Alcoa's continuity. In the medium term, for the next year and so on, you have to change the regulation of the electrical system. In government proposals, the Marxist auction system is unlinking some sources of power generation that have already amortized their plants. I don't know, I'm not an expert in matter, whether this is the definitive solution or not, but, in any case, it opens a path, and if it isn't this, I'd like you, who has technicians at your disposal, to have given us some alternative path. What does the Galician Union think about this, beyond criticizing the others? That's what we ask a responsible and active government, and that's what we miss in its intervention. We need to make an effort among all of us so that the solution that has been given also goes through the necessary renewal in investments on these plants, that makes them at least as competitive as the San Cibrao plant, which fortunately today is at the edge of this problem, and we hope that it will continue to be that way. Among other things, because there were some things done by the company that would be necessary to do on the plants of the Crown and of Avilés. Energy, of course, must be done there. But there is also another important issue, which has to do with the necessary connection between the actions of a global multinational, such as Alcoa, and the states and autonomous communities, and even if it is desired, the European Commission, which act in a much more limited territorial framework. It has to end this usual practice, which has continued in these years too, to say: we grant in return for no commitment, because that is part of the problem, the social goat and also the work goat that exists in connection with this issue. It's a company that received hundreds of millions of euros in public incentives but has no commitment to stability in the medium and long term. We have to change that milestone for this company and for the others. When public incentives are received it is necessary to guarantee stability, commitment to stay in the territory, because, if not, companies are playing with us not as political representatives, they are playing with us society, and we cannot allow that. This is a repeat situation, and we have to put it short-term. I think we have to guarantee the company, as the workers ask, their business committee, that it withdraws the extinct ERE to sit down and negotiate. We know that the company is, as it is commonly said, closed in the band, that its representatives in Spain do not have the autonomy to make decisions that involve this. So if it's necessary, you have to go to the primary source, you have to go to the United States and talk to the tops responsible and convince them that this negotiation route is plausible, that there will be a framework, first electric, and, secondly, incentives for technological renewal that will allow the company to continue in the best conditions. We have to do this. Secondly, we have to keep all the options, all the alternatives, open, because we know that the situation is very complex, so we have to keep all the alternatives open. And I would say that we all do our best not to break social and political unity on this issue. So be careful. Everyone who gives as much as they can. To urge others to do the same, but to be careful not to turn this into a partisan struggle or a subject that would allow for political advantage at the expense of the future of many families and of the future of our steel-metalurgical industry in Galicia, which is partly Spain as well. That's what I wanted to propose to you, and I think if we get out of this appearance with this idea of unity in relation to these issues, we'll move forward a little further the hope that there might be light at the end of the tunnel for the Alcoa workers, for their families and for the future of the industrial sector in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u227	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to begin my speech with a greeting to the workers and the workers of Alcoa, who don't surrender. Not only for them, but also for their families and throughout Galicia. They're fighting not for them, they're fighting for all of us, because the impact of the closure of the factory would affect everyone, impoverishes the Italian productive fabric and drags down our economy. Thank you for standing up for your well-being, not yours, but all citizenship. Today, and until this conflict is resolved, we are all workers and workers of Alcoa. [[Applause]] It is surprising how quickly the councillor forgot yesterday's parliamentary agreement, where in an initiative proposed precisely by the People's Party we agreed to seek solutions and not point guilty. Of course, if we're going to do that in this intervention, we have a lot of signs to make. They came here talking about the lack of political initiative by the Central Government, and that everything that should be done to stabilize prices is not done. Do you want guilty? Look in the mirror! There are those responsible for the current regulation of the electricity sector! The advisor also said that the interruptability pox for 2019 has not yet been called. He forgot to say last year he didn't call until November, nor did he rule others in the central government. Besides, it was only for six months. Make it clear, Mr. Counsellor, that he comes here with a partial performance and not an act of general interest to the whole of citizenship. Their priority is not the workers and the workers, but the defence of the interests of their party and the memory they left in the Government of the State. [[Applause]] It is clear that they have not done their duties before, so there was a seemingly erratic and improvised legislation, with a succession of minimum-duration patches, which prevented the existence of a stable frame that was competitive in the long term; a situation that was deliberately maintained in time. He was not unconscious, he was deliberated in time by the People's Party's governments, with the convolence, yes, of political power dedicated to protecting the electric oligopolie, who knows how to thank by placing his most illustrious former leaders in executive positions — Aznar or Fernández de Mesa — is called in an unacceptable exercise always, but especially at this moment, of rotational doors between political power and private company, favored by those who previously held political positions of relevance and who later exercise lobbyists over the old party comrades. We have to untie once and for all the conviviality with the electric oligopolie by the political power, both through legislation and through the grant. And let's be clear, we're on a stage where you can't give in to the blackmail of Alcoa; you can't give more unconditional money to electro-intensive companies; you can't accept Alcoa placing workers and workers as human shields in the protection of their own interests. It is therefore urgent and vital for the company to comply with this House's unanimous complaint that represents the sovereignty of our country: the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the ERE of extinction. This request should mark — if this is the normal and the agreement yesterday is normally fulfilled — the start of the unit of action in this Parliament of the municipalities concerned, the Government of the Union, the Government of the State, placing us next to the workers and the workers of Alcoa. This initial unit should follow a joint proposal. This is where we're extracting solutions that we're going up to. Well, all right, there must be a joint, consensual proposal, which thinks about people, jobs, the industrial future of our country, and which incinerates once and for all any doubt on which side are some Greek political forces. Otherwise, it only benefits from Alcoa's strategy. Now, listen to the counselor, from En Marea we think it's time to rescue the hemerothec, even if it's fleeting. We want to remember that In Marea has introduced in this chamber and in the Congress of Members a number of initiatives over the past two years to improve the system that guarantees the viability of electro-intensive companies, with two main objects. The first of them, to end the speculative attacks on the price of light by the electric oligopolie. And secondly, to stabilize prices, to introduce certainty in the sector. In all cases, rejected by votes against the People's Party. Secondly, we want to remember that the Government of the Mariano Rajoy People's Party has been placing patches for six years and has helped hundreds of millions of euros to Alcoa without demanding or controlling, first, that it had invested in the improvement of facilities to make them more competitive, which would disincentive the closure now. Secondly, there is no concern about the consolidation of employment. And now they come here to rip off the clothes. It's something incomprehensible. Third data. Very specific. In January 2018 In Marea presented a non-law proposal in this House, which we are debating, to urge the Government of the State that had executed the 2017 budgetary departure of the general state budgets of 150 million euros, with the aim of stabilising this market. The People's Party voted against, voted against. If I don't tell the truth, go up now and lie to me; and if so, explain to the workers why they did it, and you came now, in this first intervention, precisely demanding that these games be executed. Why did they vote against 2017 in January 2018 in this House? Tell them and all Galicia you're listening to. In any case, in what is now of interest we must refuse the blackmail of Alcoa with the ERE and more with the closure plans. And why? For a very clear reason. A company that received about a billion euros from the pockets of the entire citizenship of Galicia and the state, to ensure its viability, cannot now catch a scare. And you have to warn them clearly, too, firmly. If Alcoa insists and persists in its intentions, the Government of Greece and the Government of the State will have to activate the legal mechanisms to demand the return of the unduly charged. Faced with blackmail for particular interest, our firmness in defending industrialization and the general interest of citizenship. We understand — and here it seems to be unanimous — that this proposal must be launched immediately, as has been claimed unanimously, a negotiating table between the company, the workers and the workers, the municipalities concerned, the Union and the Government of the State, so that, the day after Alcoa withdraws the ERE of extinction, we put ourselves to work in the solutions, from which we bring ours to this debate. First of all, and as agreed yesterday, demand from the Government of the State to run the 2018 match, but also the 2017 one, of the 150 million euros to improve the viability of the intensive industry, making it clear, yes, that there can be no unconditional help. These compensations must be conditional, firstly, on investments to ensure the future technological viability of factories and also on the maintenance of employment. We believe that these conditions are essential in order to prevent the present situation from repeating itself. It is also necessary that both the compensations mentioned now and this new and reformulated period of interruption for the coming years, to which I will now refer, which compensates for a true service of interruption, differ in categories of companies depending on the impact the costs of electricity supply have on their total production costs. This would prevent companies from competing in which compensation is essential for their viability and others for which it is only a help to their development, but not so critical to their survival. It is also necessary in the medium term, and fundamentally, first of all, the review of all electrical legislation, which not only endangers the viability of our entire industry beyond the electro-intensive companies, but also assumes an inescapable slate for most homes, many times more and more of them prisoners at an ever more severe energy poverty, to those we have mentioned here on so many occasions. Secondly, while this does not develop, it is necessary immediately to get the hydraulic, wind and nuclear production out of the daily energy supply, and to force it to be sold in the long term at fair and stable prices. As a matter of fact, it is necessary to allow physical bilateral procurement between producers and large consumers such as Alcoa. This, for example, is the situation that the Alcoa plant already has in Norway, and it has contracts at fifteen years, at stable prices, with wind producers, which makes a plant less productive than the one in the Coruña has its long-term guaranteed future. In the long term too, but with a view to the renewal of European institutions in the near future, two issues should be pointed out. The first is the need to develop environmental tariffs based on the CO2 footprint of products entering the European Union from third countries. What can't be, is that Alcoa's aluminium of factories developed, for example, in Saudi Arabia, with benefits obtained from the plants of Galicia and Asturias, and with the EUR 1 billion of aids that came out of the pocket of all people who consume electricity, they now compete with local factories. That can't be. Maden's aluminum enters — and they know perfectly — massively by the port of Vigo; an aluminium produced from electrical energy that burns fuel and water obtained from desalinations that also burn fuel. I mean, with a level of emissions of massive and unacceptable greenhouse gases. This is the real structural reason that Alcoa handles, and not the false lack of competitiveness of the asturian or galley factories. Finally, remember that, if Alcoa persists in his intentions, the Greek Government and the State Government, as I said before, have the duty to demand the refund of the money wrongly charged. We must also formulate this idea, the possibility of applying Article 128.2 of the Spanish Constitution, given that Alcoa is monopolistic in the manufacture of aluminium in Spain. We want to keep in mind that the Constitution allows the intervention of companies in cases like this to be agreed upon when the general interest is justified. For us, the maintenance of jobs; for us, the maintenance of an unconditioned and not blackmailed market; and for us, the maintenance of industrial employment in Galicia well deserves to be classified as the general interest of the whole of citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u229	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Please, Mr. Vilares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u230	Good day to all. First, move our greeting, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to the representatives of the workers who accompany us in this debate. The truth is, after listening to the speeches of the opposition voices, anyone would say that on yesterday we reached an agreement promoted by the People's Group, a unanimous agreement signed by all parties, for the defence of a common position. Anyone would say that this agreement that we voted yesterday afternoon is still in force for the opposition groups' representatives, after they have listened to them. In any case, from the People's Party, what we want is to show our solidarity with the workers, to defend the importance of unity of action, political unity and social unity. So, I think it's a day to measure words, because it's not about sharing responsibilities here, Mr. Villares, it's not about time for sentences! The workers want is a common position and we all defend it from where each one of us has responsibilities. I think someone has come to this plenary doing something else, and I think it's wrong, I think it's a mistake, I think it's a real mistake! I think the government has shown agility. The Greek Government, from the very first moment, has been, is and will be where the whole of Greek society demands that it be and demand that it remain. It must be remembered, Mr. Villares, that the councillor is here on his own request, that it was the Government who also registered a request for attendance and that it was the majority of the House who asked for a change in the order of the day to be able to include this appearance, requested once the order of the day conformed. So here you don't bring anyone's tracks. No, no, no. The government is here because he wanted to be from the very first moment, on his own will, and for a clear exercise of responsibility. [[Applause]] You know what happens, that, on the other hand, that government of what you don't want to talk about because now you can no longer speak — which is what Mr. Pablo Iglesias told you — that government had to appear this morning at the Congress of Deputies and answer a question put by a member of the People's Party; a question about what measures the Government of Spain has planned to put in place to deal with the Alcoa crisis. Do you know what the ministers of the Government of Pedro Sánchez have done? To request the adjournment of that question, which would be addressed to the Minister of Energy Transition, and was in Spain. No, no, no, they read the initiative. [[Murmurs.]] So these are two ways to act: to be here and face to face, or not to be and not to give answers. So, what I would like, after listening to certain performances, is that if it was equally serious and powerful with all governments, not "with my silence," and "the Government of the People's Party because they are not mine." That's your model, Mr. Villares, and that's how your hair looks! [[Applause]] There is a lack of response from the Government of Spain more than evident. And you know what I'm telling you? That we will ask the Government of Pedro Sánchez the same thing we asked the Government of Mariano Rajoy in 2014. Because this has already happened, it's already happened, and in 2014 what the Government of the Town Hall did, what the Government of Galicia did, what the Government of Spain did, went to look for solutions and put them on the table, and we got through a crisis very similar to this one. [[Murmurs.]] And now what is about overcoming this situation by putting solutions all, all!, with height of sight. We didn't ask him for more or less. Clearly, the political instability in our country has these consequences. It is clear that political instability results in institutional instability and leads to economic instability, and it is clear that it is sensitive to such instability. That's what's happening right now. But, I tell you, this was a government that is here and that comes, and that of Spain, that of Peter Sánchez and Paul Iglesias, is a government that disappears; and it's not the same thing as disappearing, that's what's happening right now. I must also say that I am glad of the change of speech of certain opposition parties. We see an Ana Pontón who's very concerned about her job, and it looks very good to us. We see a Mr. Villares also very concerned about the job, and we find it especially nice. But I have to tell you that all jobs are the same, and we're going to defend the Alcoa workers with the same intensity as the workers of Ence, Elnosa, the thermal plants of Endesa das Pontes and Meirama. [[Applause]] We're going to defend the jobs of Reganosa with the same intensity and we're going to defend the jobs that depend on Citroën.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u231	Mr. Lago, Mr. Lago, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u232	The real important thing is to advance and achieve coordination between administrations, but it is difficult to dialogue with an administration that is missing. To rule this is to be when you need it. What we see in the Government of Spain is that it's gone, and in the first moment that I had to say what its position is, it wasn't. Mrs. Pontón, no one throws the towel on the other side. But I ask you that the agreement we reached yesterday among all of us also defend him among all of us. So I don't think it's time to come here to take the opportunity to take the flag of nationalism and say that this Welsh electric tariff would solve everything, because you know as well as I am not true, that the Greek electric tariff would be an even greater problem, added to all those who already have Alcoa. So the councillor yesterday was sitting in Madrid at a negotiating table, at a dialogue table, with a parliamentary mandate, with a unanimous agreement yesterday that we resolved in this House that I feel you haven't read, because they're talking about a negotiating table that Galician board has to set up. They shouldn't read well, Mrs. Pontón, the initiative, because the one we ask for the opening of a negotiating table is Alcoa, it's Alcoa! How do you oppose the Government of Galicia all day? Hey, it's Alcoa we asked for the negotiating table. We kept all the agreements we defended yesterday. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, I think you can say exactly the same thing. Mr. Leicega, no one here has pulled the towel. The important thing is that the Government of Spain gets to work, so they made a motion of censure! I suppose you, besides enjoying the Moncloa, will do something! You rule now, Mr. Leicega! I think you haven't noticed the change yet. So you obviously have a chance to act on the Government of Spain that you haven't spoken about, but that the councilman expressed with meridian clarity. Calling for the spring of 2019 and solving those compensations that are in the general budgets of the state that let the People's Party pass. It's just running it, it's just running it to make sure companies like Alcoa. So it's no longer worth infantilism to say: it's just us coming! No, no, they just got here, they take action because it's your turn now. Stop looking back. The Government of Spain has to take action, it has to do so, and it has to say whether you are committed to this matter or whether you are simply on that tour of trips that does not take anywhere. I know you wanted to look back because the electrical system is a disaster. Indeed, it's a disaster because when they ruled you left a hole of 30 billion euros of tariff deficit. That's why you had selective memory and didn't wake up for anything. I think you put the sale before the wound, and came here to justify the inaction of the socialist Government. Mr. Villares... we saw that tiger become a cat because of the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain you didn't speak. It can be seen that Mr. Pablo Iglesias, the vice president of fact, does not want any criticism of the government of Sánchez, which already has a lot of trouble with them. There's a precedent that was the year 2014. We had a serious problem, a serious problem, about Alcoa's power stations in Galicia. He also weighed the possibility of closure, and worked co-ordinately among all administrations: Welsh administration, Council of the Crown and Government of Spain, and they sought solutions. Now what it's about to do is do exactly the same thing, put us on the side of the Alcoa workers all over Galicia and bring solutions. Come here to make a partisan rally of the Welsh electric tariff, whether the problem was Aznar or not, I think that that doesn't bring anything to anyone, and now what it's about is finding solutions to a serious problem. So I already tell you that the Government of Galicia, and the majority of Parliament that supports and accompanies the Councillor for Economics and Industry, will always be on the side of the workers and will defend the permanence of this plant, which is very important to Galicia's productive fabric. We'll always be there, government who governs Moncloa. We will continue to defend the same, the same as we defend in 2014, and before, because we have been suffering that sword of Damocles from a possible closure of Alcoa for ten years. We're here, we're going to continue here, we're going to defend Galician interests no matter who rules in other administrations. I hope that unanimous agreement that was adopted yesterday at the initiative of the majority group, of the group that supports the Government of Greece, remains in force, because that will be an exercise of responsibility for all. And let's stop making money policy, which is what we've been seeing in this debate, and bet on reaching agreements, supporting them, and politicalizing since institutional loyalty. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u233	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, thank you for the intervention of all parliamentary groups. We must not forget all the groups, and also the Government, that we are in an action unit because we have only one goal, which is to reverse the decision of Alcoa and thus ensure the continuity of the jobs. There's no other target, and for that the Government will continue to work. That's why I don't think it's worth using expressions like "throwing the towel," or that "Government isn't working and it's not getting involved in finding solutions." Yesterday we were in Madrid defending the position of the Galician Union and the position of the workers, and evaluating the proposal that the unions moved to that meeting, which was precisely that Alcoa could withdraw the ERE. Therefore, the Government continues to work and the Government will continue to involve itself. That's why, Mr. Leicega, all prudence, but also all realism, because what we're playing is 360 jobs in the Coruña factory, and the Government has to ask for realism, the Council of Galicia and everywhere. I don't think I've said anything in my intervention that I haven't been saying all these days. And above all, I said nothing that was not reflected in the unanimous agreement of both the institutional declaration and the GNP that we adopted yesterday. And in that sense, of course, we have transferred that commitment that Alcoa removes that employment regulation file, which is the first step, but at the same time, we understand that there is a clear answer to the 2019 interruptability system. I didn't talk here about a reform of the electrical system — which we can talk about — but immediately we have to give an immediate solution to the situation that the workers have. So, at the same time, what we are moving to the Government is simply taking the initiative and implementing what is the system of interruption for the year 2019, for Alcoa and for the set of electrointensive companies. In that context, we also transferred to Alcoa the need not only to solve the problem from an electrical point of view, but also to address — and I also did it in my intervention — all the investments linked to infrastructure and technology that allow you to be more competitive. So, Mr. Leicega, I did not perceive anything in the ideas of the parliamentary groups that had not been in my intervention. There's only one small difference in your intervention that I shade you, just one thing, and you're thinking about keeping alternatives open. Yesterday, at the meeting in Madrid, I didn't hear any solution, and that's what we have to try to do between us all. In my intervention I transferred that the Government of Spain has all the support of the Galician Union—all—and will continue to work together with the workers and the Principality of Asturias to find that solution. So all prudence because we are on a very complex subject — as we all know, unfortunately — and all realism, because the times are immediate. On October 31st, if there is no change, it will start counting the time of that employment regulation file, and we all have to dump ourselves, immediately, looking for a solution. Mrs. Pontón, tell me I'm coming as a militant from the People's Party. Look, it's not worth it, it's not worth it, especially for the 360 workers on the Alcoa plant. [[Murmurs.]] This government is overwhelmed by the facts, and most importantly, all of the Alcoa-Coruña workers know perfectly well that the president of the Galician Union has been working for ten years so that, year after year, there will be a concrete solution for the Alcoa workers. That's the reality. So we'll go to the negotiating table with all sides. [[Applause]] We will share with the Galician parliamentary groups the different positions we can move. We will share these positions with the company committee. And we'll also share positions with the union centers and the government itself, because there's no other objective to find that solution, which is the most important thing... Mr. Villares, you talked about different proposals. There's a key element in the different proposals, and they have to be validated legally, and that's what we've been using for a long time, over the last ten years, all of them: the Government, the Galician Union, the Principality of Asturias, the workers themselves, because these measures have to be legal and have to be validated by the European Union. This is where we have to find the concrete solutions that enable Alcoa to guarantee those jobs. So, Mr. Leicega, I don't come -- really, I say -- if anyone has interpreted that I came here to criticize someone, I withdraw those possible references, nothing further than my intention. I come here to move a position to the Government, along with the corporate committee and parliamentary groups, to continue working and supporting the Government to find a solution. But let me in an appearance, where we have to move what is the background — not just the shape, but the background — of the problem, transfer realism, because from realism we can this year, one more year, find a solution, which is what brings us together. That's why listening to proposals linked to Galicia's electrical independence, honestly, they don't seem realistic, and I don't think that kind of proposals at the moment give Alcoa a solution. It's true that I also think they don't give a solution to the future, but, of course, in the short term, they won't give the Alcoa workers a solution. BNG knows that the Welsh tariff is illegal and is more expensive, 300 million euros more expensive than the current system. And don't tell the government. As all parliamentarians know, there was a commission in the process of the popular legislative initiative linked to energy saving and efficiency, independent experts from the Spanish and European electricity system, and everyone, unanimously, except the BNG rapporteurs, have moved that proposal not only is unconstitutional, but it is also more expensive for the family economy. So, I don't think it's worth bringing to the debate measures that will not give a solution in the short term and in the current context of Alcoa, but that they won't give you any kind of solution to the future either. I believe that among all of us we must focus on concrete proposals and realistic proposals that can address those solutions for the future. Solutions I have tried to move, which were those that have been given by the Government over the past few years also with the involvement of the Principality of Asturias, this is not a partisan theme. Also the Principality of Asturias, for the last ten years, has been working with the Council of Galicia and the previous Government to find a solution. This is not a subject of partisanism, it's a subject of finding realistic and legally viable solutions. You know, we all know, that since 2012 there has been a problem of compatibility of the system of interruption with Community legislation, and they have been addressing concrete solutions that are leading us to the fact that we now have a system of postage and a system of compensation mechanisms validated by the European Union. And Mr. Leicega and Mr. Villares, you both know that the renewable energy compensatory system is currently not validated by the European Union. This is one of the aspects that needs to be resumed by the year 2019 in order to continue to complete the mechanism to accompany the needs of electrointensive companies under criteria legally compatible with Community legislation, because that is the guarantee that at the same time we are being asked by all the companies involved in the interruptability system. By the way, the payment for interruptability is a payment for a service, another thing is compensation mechanisms. But I think it's also good to clarify that all the counts that apply, derived from the pox, are derived from a service and, therefore, from a counter-pressure that lends all the electro-intensive companies. It is true that in compensation mechanisms we must work and not only establish validity with regard to the European Union, but also the link between the representatives of the parliamentary groups and what this Government agrees with. Finally, I think we are facing a critical moment, because we have to be realistic about the unilateral decision that has been taken by Alcoa. We must all try to reverse that unilateral decision so they can remove the employment regulation file. And we have to establish those solutions. The Galician Union will be involved in providing all solutions that allow a solution to the issue of its competence. The powers from the point of view of energy policy all know that the Government of the State has them, so the energy policy solutions need to be provided by the Government of the State, so we ask you to establish the interruptability system for the year 2019. In all those elements that will complement the needs that Alcoa can have towards its modernization, towards the investments that it can need to be more competitive, it will count on the support of the Galician Union. So in that sense the State has an ally. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Finally, I believe that we must all maintain the unity of action. The Council of Galicia will continue to be the ally of the Government and of the workers, and in that sense it will work together with the parliamentary groups in that unit of action which was set up in the institutional declaration, fulfilling all and each of the points which were reflected in the GNP which we approved yesterday unanimously. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u236	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Conde, I think it is important that we listen to each other in Parliament. The first thing I told you on behalf of the BNG in this matter is that for us there are two things that are fundamental. The first one is that Alcoa doesn't close, and we're not going to let him risk not a single job. The second, Counsellor, is that we articulate a country front so that we have a Galician board that heads the defence of employment and, in particular, the maintenance of jobs. [[Applause]] So I regret that here the spokesperson for the People's Party wants to come and look for his minute of glory. I don't know, you actually have a very strong obsession with BNG, and I'm not going to go into lies or disqualifications because I think it's important to be other subjects. Look, I'm just gonna tell you one thing. Basque tariff, call it euskopeax, put the name you want, 120 million euros of savings for your companies that allow them to be more competitive. Galicia, the net energy producer, we export a very important part of our energy, zero euros of profit and 400 jobs in the peak because of a lot of the energy prices. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You said here something that we really need to worry about. You said here, literally, that in Madrid yesterday, no solution had been put on the table. And I wonder, what have you been to Madrid? We believe that the Greek Government must be part of the solution, and for that it cannot be that it is of cross arms, seeing what happens and simply as a spectator of reality. That's why we asked him, and we told him clearly — he's going to try to do it better, since it seems to me that he didn't understand me well, Mr. Counsellor—is that, if we make an institutional statement at which we also pick up a point that moved the Alcoa Business Committee to open a negotiating table with all the parties involved, man, I understand that this negotiating table will not open it Alcoa, he will have to open the Greek Government! I imagine that will be the starting point and the proposal being launched from the works committee. A little serious, we're talking about a very serious subject. [[Murmurs.]] A little serious! Or will you define Alcoa what is the energy frame of this country? [[Applause]] We will have to be the political forces with the social agents, and take a little bit of rigour a matter that is important for the present and the future. Because surely Mr. Conde knows, as well as I do, that the problem, if we do not have a stable framework for companies that are electrointensive, a stable framework from an energy point of view, not only will we have this situation in Alcoa, we can have it in other production centres, we can have it in other companies. So we are asking you, Counselor, for a country proposal to put an alternative on the table. There may be many, and everyone can legitimately defend those who consider themselves most important. I'm not going to criminalize any, here you come to criminalize one. Finally, everyone with their responsibilities! Since the BNG we're not going to criminalize any proposals, what we ask you to do is you're conducting a table in Galicia where Alcoa is, the representatives of the workers and the workers and the political forces that you think should be part of that negotiating table. And you go to Madrid not as a militant of the People's Party, but as a militant of Galicia. That's what we're asking. That is exactly the proposal we make in this plenary and which we consider important. There's a lot at stake. The employment of many families is at stake. The future of a region like Coruña, which is becoming an industrial desert, is also at stake. And it's at stake that we can collectively benefit from electricity production. You, Counselor, must be something more than someone telling us what's really going on, and you have to come to this Parliament telling us what your alternatives are, which I imagine you will have something more consistency than a leaflet that we can deal with with general criteria in a Parliament quickly, because we wanted to transfer a clear message of support to the workers and workers and to stop your feet to the interests of Alcoa. We ask him for a height of vision and responsibility because what is at stake is important to this country. And, I'm telling you, the BNG is going to be providing solutions, what we want is to have a government to deal with, not to be a spectator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u238	Good morning again. I have to thank you, Counselor, for the tone of your second intervention, which seems to me to respond to the spirit of what we could do here today, and I think that allows us to move forward a little bit at least in the search for that positive solution for the future of Alcoa. I share with you that we have a very delicate, very difficult situation. When a review of what the world's big aluminium producers are, in the first ten, no European Union country appears if we remove Iceland or Norway, which are but are not. And when you look at the characteristics of what they are, you see they either have bauxite, or they have an extremely competitive energy, or they're the big markets that consume aluminum today, or several things at once. This indicates the difficulty of keeping these types of industries competitive in places like Spain, which do not have oil, do not have bauxite, and the European market is a market with a certain level of saturation. So it has a great merit in these conditions to be these factors of Avilés, especially because they have a workers' plant with a huge qualification, which are the ones that maintain the level of productivity that makes these plants competitive. And in a situation where the company declares losses on aluminium plants, which claims losses globally, even if it's for extraordinary negative results, and therefore makes it more difficult to see that this time it's not a negotiation strategy as it has happened on other occasions, and there seems to be other characteristics. So we have a very complicated situation. We have a situation that I think demands, first, unity. I think it's not about anyone getting medals, we're probably all aware that at some point we're proclaiming in Parliament and supporting solutions for the electro-intensive industries that meant modifying the auction system. We too, in 2017, were held at Congress, here, on several occasions. The institutional statement says that a negotiating table is open. And I think that the important thing is not so much who calls you, the important thing is that you feel the company at that negotiating table. Because we can call a table without the company feeling and we won't get anything. If we can sit down, we're taking another step in the search for a positive solution. And I think it's about pushing this around. I'd also like to hear that Junta is willing to use the instruments of economic and industrial promotion that it has to contribute to a solution, which is what I asked of her in my intervention. I think this is right. And I also want the Ministry to do this, using the mechanisms that are provided for in the general government budgets this year. If we have to call this year a five-month break-up auction, as Minister Christmas did at the time, let it be done and done quickly. We articulate more axile, safer, more effective mechanisms within European standards by 2019, and we look among all for an area that will allow this industrial activity to be viable and, therefore, that the jobs, directly and indirectly linked, have much more security. If we're on this line, I think we're moving a little forward. Without definitive guarantees... I made a nuance, why did you say leave the alternatives open? Because we have no assurances that, not even with all this, the company eventually comes to a negotiation. So we need to know that this situation that no one wants is also a situation that is within the scope of possible. So let's leave other options in case we're going to have to take care of them in the future. I am not going to answer any other statements made in this House, I think it doesn't make much sense. We could talk about the instability that Minister Christmas has generated in the electric market with his decisions, but I don't want to go in there, I don't think it's very useful right now to start messing with us. [[Applause]] No, I'm getting something that I think is more important. I think there were two possibilities here. One possibility was to accentuate the divisions and get out with a bad taste in the mouth because we wouldn't help the industrial viability of Alcoa in Galicia and Asturias, and in Spain as a whole; or to put forward a more unitary work that collects what the worker's business committee is telling us, but that gives you a positive solution to the collaboration between different administrations in search of viability for the future of these plants. I want to keep this, and that's why I want this last intervention to be a positive intervention, tending hand to find solutions among all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u239	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u240	We have to coincide with the previous voicer in which his second intervention had to be the first, and that's the tone he had to have in the first. We came here in search of unity of action, so that's what we came prepared for the debate, not to blame or hold third parties accountable for what's happened. The second aspect of what we came here is for the search for solutions. In that sense, with all due respect, I have to tell you that In Tide 8, Counselor 0. Come back here and tell us again what the solution measures you're proposing are. Tell us you're on your closing duty. Of course, it's not one of those eight measures I told you before. We came here in January, we presented a non-law proposal that was debated in this House, in which we asked for the 2017 budgets to be implemented in relation to those 150 million euros, and the People's Party voted against. They have a chance to rectify, and you have a chance, when you get up here, to say they're wrong. It's okay, it's okay. We didn't even ask them to apologize, we just asked them to admit they were wrong. It's okay. I would like to remind you of those eight measures, which I think are important, in the form of a proposal. At the immediate level, demand precisely those EUR 150 million from the 2017 and the 2018 budgets. Secondly, the reformulation of the interruptability hub, where the categories of companies differ depending on the impact the costs of electricity supply have on their total production costs. Thirdly, the total review of electrical legislation, which not only endangers the viability of the entire industry beyond the electro-intensive companies, it is also a slate for small businesses and families, which are also subject to speculative attacks by the electric oligopolie. Fourthly, get the hydraulic, wind and nuclear production out of the daily power stations. Fifth, physical bilateral procurement between producers and large consumers such as Alcoa is allowed. Sixth, development of environmental tariffs. I think it was this measure that you referred to when it wasn't validated by the European Union space. That is why I am explicitly referring to the fact that in the context of the institutional renewal which will take place next year in the Community institutions, this debate must be put forward to change it. Apart from secondary law law, it's not original state law, which means that different policy measures can be adopted because they do not affect the original law of the European Union. It is therefore not necessary to amend the Union treaties in order to carry out these new measures. The seventh, the return of undue debts as a result of non-compliance with the conditions. Finally, the application of Article 128(2) of the Constitution. It seems to us that there are eight measures that can be spoken of, which can be broken down which are common positions, but at least it refers to them in order to be able to seek from here a common position. We thought, of the latter, that asking for Alcoa's accounts for the money received, and whether they were used properly or not, it's not something that gets under discussion. I will stop a little more in Article 128(2) in the intervention of the economy, specifically through the nationalization of companies. It is something that constitutionally is indisputable, as it collects its own constitutional text, but I will also give concrete examples, in the last decade, of the activation of this mechanism. Some as dangerous as Royal Decree Law 9/2009, on bank restructuring and strengthening of credit institutions' own resources, followed also by the Bank-ordered Restructuring Fund and the laws that complemented them, which were from the years 2012 and 2014. In other words, when the State considered it appropriate to intervene in the bank to capitalize on public money, it had no problem in doing so, and a competitive title was used aside that in the final sixth provision of any of these cannot be seen: coordination of general planning and economic activity, among others. Well, they could do it if they wanted, with 50 billion public euros, of which the Banco de España and Luis de Guindos themselves recognized that they would be unrecoverable about thirty-eight thousand. Well, if there was money for this, and besides they were completely lost — generously with the bank — thus breaking the state of well-being as we previously understood, with Article 135, much less we can do much more, in this case, by a company that is strategic for our country. The second point would be to see if we are at a time of political opportunity to use this constitutional tool. We think so, if the other measures don't work. We think that because the company has taken more than a billion euros of public funds, which have been employed — as we said before, without anyone else denying us or denying us the Business Committee — to achieve benefits outside the Greek and Asturian factories and outside the state. And thirdly, that the company acts as a monopoly regime, because they are the only aluminium manufacturers practically in the state, and they are put in question more than four hundred direct jobs and more than two thousand induced jobs. Therefore, it is clear to us that the competition for a general interest prevailing over the particular interests of the company is evident. Besides, this has already been tested earlier. If anyone still doubts the opportunity and constitutionality of this application of these rules, I shall quote, as a matter of age, a Constitutional judgment on singular expropriation — 111/1983 — and, as a general rule, the validation by the Constitutional Court of both the scope of supervision and solvency of credit institutions — i.e. banking — as well as with regard to insurers and re-insurers, also relating to the scope of pension funds. Finally, I'm done with another area. In the field of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, in its judgment of 19 March 1991, of the French Republic against the Commission in case 202/88, has also validated this series of mechanisms. So we think they're out of the question. This would benefit not only from the workers and the workers of Alcoa -- as you said, we are concerned about the workers as a whole -- but also about all the productive tissue around a company like this, and that would, of course, be a deadly blow to the industrial sector, not only in the metropolitan area of the Coruña, but throughout Galicia. In addition, we think that the measures we propose would also benefit small businesses as well as the homes of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u242	Let's discuss this in the state of the nation. We have seen that over the past year 35 percent of the price of light has risen, and that problem is not the situation we are talking about. So, for the general interest, not only of the workers and the workers of Alcoa, but of the population as a whole, they take measures and take them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u243	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u244	Thank you, Mr. President. We have found, at the end of this meeting, that there is indeed a commitment in Galicia, that there is a Government committed to working to find solutions to an important company that is going through problems and that sends a clear warning message. And we can either act or not do anything. Clearly, the German Government has decided to act, has decided to participate in this process in the search for solutions which, inevitably, must come from the hand of the Government of Spain, we like it or we don't like it. In Galicia there is commitment, in Galicia there is a unanimous agreement that we subscribed to in this chamber yesterday, and I think it would be important for us to keep that agreement in time. What we see in Spain is that there is a government that is currently dissembling. And I hope you change your mind, change your mind. Because, without a doubt, I think that this political and social unity in Galicia would be good if I could count on the support of the Government of Spain as well in the search for solutions. Mr. Villares, you in Madrid support a government, support that government that has to provide solutions. So, if you have the ability to interact, talk to Pablo Iglesias, Paul Iglesias with Peter Sánchez, Peter Sánchez with his ministers, and then we'll put solutions on the table. We can all do something; all of us, you too. This isn't just about coming here, dropping out and it's gone; it's not. What can we do every one of us? I'm surprised at the inconsistency of your speech, because you really want to close companies. Say it many times, say it here in this camera. There are first-class workers and second-class workers for the tides of Podemos. We defend all jobs, may you have maintained the same attitude. And, of course, they didn't always defend Alcoa. Just go to the press and see an interview by Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, who said, "In the Marea charge against the privileges of Megasa, Alcoa and Ferroatlantica. In Marea it calls to limit the pay and auctioned power of interruption, which is seen as a covert aid for large consumers." Well, let's be clear. Look: we believe there are tools to help Alcoa, to ensure the viability of this industrial project, and it would be good for all of us to work in the same direction. And, therefore, I think it is necessary to commend the Government of Greece for doing what it has to do, which is working with agility, defending general interests and building a common front in Galicia, in this parliament, but also in Spain, with the Principality of Asturias and with the Government of Spain. So I believe that the will to dialogue and to seek solutions from the Galician Union is what we all need. I just want to thank the Socialist Party for Mr. Leicega's tone of his last intervention. But if I think we should remind him that the interruptability system has been established in the 1990s. So, if it's so bad, they had the opportunity to reform it in the years in which they ruled Spain and they didn't. So the system probably wasn't as bad as you said. What the PP government did was to introduce more competitiveness into auctions, and that's why the compensation system was created; that was the reality. And there are those hundred and fifty million euros in budgets that we approve of and that now manage the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which all you have to do is put them on the table to avoid the closure of Alcoa. And he's got to do it now, not waiting for anything. You can do it now. For the BNG and the tides the truth and which is curious, because the BNG and the tides solve it all or close companies or propose the nationalization of companies. Hey, let's look for solutions to the resources and the law enforcement instead of making castles in the air that don't take us anywhere. We respect the Alcoa workers, who want solutions and want concrete proposals, don't want to come to a meeting with Mr. Villares or Mrs. Ana Pontón. Mrs. Pontón, the Basque electric tariff doesn't exist, it's a lie, it's one of the lies repeated by Greek nationalism. It's an electric tariff for certain powers. See if it's Basque that there are seven Galician companies hosted at that Basque rate; there are eleven Asturias companies, seventeen Cantabria, thirty-three Castela and León, forty-two Navarre companies. The electric fee of the Basque... Mrs. Pontón, take this seriously. His electric fare would be a real ruin for Galicia, a real ruin. [[Applause]] I'm done urging Mr. Leicega to keep that tone, because I think it's essential that the People's Party and the Socialist Party come to an agreement and work hand in hand. [[Balbordo.]] I think this tone is very different from what they kept until recently with respect to other issues, because the PSdEG-PSOE has been silent for all these months on many issues: it has been quiet when it comes to the delays of the AVE—the government has justified it— when it has spoken of the 200 million of the IVE—the Government has justified rather than defend Galicia— when it has been said to finance ports you have also shut up, when it is about the crows of Arabia that have also shut up, and now that it has been spoken of since its Government to eliminate the Iron Plan. I hope that this Socialist Party of Galicia is more demanding and aligns itself with the defence of Galician interests and not with the defence of the electoral interests of its party. So, in that path that he expressed today, I think they're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u245	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u246	I'm done. Our position is clear: to ask the Central Government for a concrete answer on the interruption framework for this year and for 2019 that serves us as the first step towards the negotiation with Alcoa, as was done in 2014 — exactly the same — and to ask Alcoa to withdraw the ERE of extinction. I believe that the common joint position, the defence of interests together, will allow, if we all work in the right direction, to prevent the closure of Alcoa, which is what we all want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u247	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Close this meeting, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. He said earlier — and I repeat in this last intervention — that our priority is the hundreds of families who are threatened by the employment regulation file that has just presented Alcoa. And in that context, I would like to thank the intervention of the four parliamentary groups because I honestly believe that it has been manifested in the different interventions that we have a single objective, that it is only to save everyone and each of the Alcoa factory jobs in the Coruña and to open up all the channels of dialogue to get Alcoa to reverse that situation. So that's where we're all summoned and that's where we'll continue to work together. Mrs. Pontón, that negotiating table that has been set up and that we are going to develop is simply marked by an aspect that I think is important to define, and that is that all proposals have to have the legality and realism that serves Alcoa. And that's where we're also summoned. And that's why I believe that each and every member of this parliament, the members of the Government and the workers of Alcoa, we are militants in Galicia to defend the works of Alcoa. And in that sense, we're all summoned and we'll work together at the negotiating table. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, two small killings. Because, in fact, the proposals you are transferring we have to include them in that negotiating table and, therefore, nuance them and see which can be more priority in order to address immediately the needs of Alcoa at the moment, so only two killings. There are issues which fall within the competence of the European Union directly, such as any kind of tariff that can be established at the level of Spain, and the competent Union is the European Union. Therefore, in that context, we can move proposals to the Government of Spain so that they can be moved to the European Union and in the common trade policy such decisions can be taken. And from a concrete point of view of the discontinuity, the only thing I was referring to is that at the moment aid for renewable energy is not validated by the European Union and therefore we have to refer ourselves to the execution of the funds linked to the indirect costs of CO2. We must work to open up new compensation mechanisms and, therefore, have a wide and flexible enough to ensure all the needs that electro-intensive companies may have and, therefore, that this system that we can all solve for the future has these slots that guarantee the viability of companies, but that they comply with this regulation at European level. With regard to Mr Leicega's intervention, I welcome the parliamentary dialogue because, in fact, many times the different shifts allow us to clarify, and I agree with you. Many of the proposals that may be put forward at the negotiating table, which also moved Mrs. Pontón, may not be valid or, at least, may not be valid in the short term. So, if it's true that we have to have that height of sight, put all on the table, see which can be viable in the short term and, from there, be able to work in the immediate situation that Alcoa has, but also in the situation towards the future. Therefore, I would like to thank this call for the unity of action to continue to promote among all the measures that have been reflected by all parliamentary groups — and therefore I also thank Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Villares and Mr. Tellado for the involvement of the four parliamentary groups — and so that we can continue to work with the workers, together with the Principality of Asturias and with the Government of Spain in that solution for Alcoa. Finally, I believe that the Galician Union is acting from the institutional level, is acting with an open dialogue with the Government and is acting with an alliance with the Asturias Government. He's going to work at that negotiating table and at all tables where we're summoned, and at all tables we're going to go with the proposals that can be put forward from the Government, from the parliamentary groups and from the Business Committee to simply claim the fair claim of the Alcoa workers, which is only to guarantee the continuity of their jobs. That's where we're summoned. It is true that the company must raise that employment regulation file, it is true — and it is good to reiterate — that the Government must offer solutions that provide a short-term exit and viability, but the Galician Union will continue to be with the workers and will continue to collect all its demands because these claims today are ours. And we will continue to be with the Government; we will be with the Government of Spain working together to find that solution. It is true that this approach has to have that realism. In this realism is where the company and the government have to give solutions, and also — as I have already reflected in the intervention — the Galician Union itself will be transferring the proposals and commitments that are needed at every moment. Finally, what is urgent right now is to respond to all efforts to ensure the viability of Alcoa and, therefore, to ensure the viability of our industry, of the Welsh industry and of the Spanish industry, because economic development is directly linked to the fixing of the industrial fabric. I am convinced — and with this end — that the unanimous commitment of all, which we today move in the various interventions and in the parliamentary debate, will allow for a solution in a much more feasible way and that, therefore, among all of us, we can respond to the expectations that currently hold the 300 workers of the Alcoa plant in the Coruña. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-24-DSPG088.u249	Well, cheers and luck. Finish the full here, there are no more points.
