ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The session is open. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament of 19 April, so we do not read it. Mrs. Magdalena Barahona Martín and Mr. Carlos López Crespo have justified their in attendance. It would now, on a previous basis — as we are starting a meeting — proceed to compliance with Rule 7.3 of the Rules of Procedure. But the new Member, Mr Hermida, is not present for a further session. So we start with the development of the agenda; in particular, with the point of legislative texts. Debate on the consideration of the Proposal for a Law to bring before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Law 24/2013, of 26 December, of the electric sector, for the impulse of electricity as a public and guarantee good in its access
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u2	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u3	Good morning, gentlemen. Let me begin my defense, the defense on behalf of the BNG, of this initiative with a question, a question that many Greeks and Greeks are asking — especially every month they have to pay the bill of light — how is it possible that, by producing Galician electricity, we don't have a single benefit and we pay one of the most expensive bills in all of Europe? It is clear that answering this question is not simple, and therefore the People's Party has for a long time used all kinds of excuses to maintain a situation that is unfair at all. I have to admit that, of all the inventions that the People's Party has to deny aspects that would be beneficial to our country, one of which seemed to me to be at least sincere was the one used by the president of the Galician Union against this initiative. He told us one day that he couldn't defend a Welsh electric tariff because in Madrid they wouldn't understand it. I mean, Mr. Feijóo is worried if in Madrid they don't understand that the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to benefit from electricity production, which we have the right to a lower rate. But it doesn't matter, however, when the Germans and the Germans — who also have a refinery in the Coruña — pay the most expensive gas oil and gasoline in the whole of Spain. We see the order of priorities that the People's Party has. [[Applause]] He's very militant in Galicia. We see here the first "Galiza always" for the People's Party. Of course, it seems to us that it is not solidarity what the People's Party is defending, preventing us from having a Welsh electric tariff, but what you are defending is an energy policy, they are defending the interests of the electricians, who rule more than the Council of Ministers. Because then, in fact, that was noticed a lot in those accounts in "b" that the People's Party had, because some of these electricians ended up financing their party. That's what explains what's going on with this subject. [[Applause]] In any case, from the BNG we didn't throw the towel in defense of a Welsh electric tariff and we believe it's necessary to change this unfair situation. And so, through this law, we propose changes that allow us to establish a new energy model, a new energy model that increases Galicia's ability to decide on energy for three purposes: first, to put in place a Welsh electric tariff that allows us to reduce the receipt of light to families and businesses; to boost energy efficiency, renewables and self-consumption; and, lastly, that this is also a tool to fight energy poverty. And allow me to expand a little bit more on the reasons why we're defending a Welsh electric tariff. I already told them that it seems to us that it is not logical for the Greeks and the Greeks, to have a wealth — which is also the exploitation of a natural resource in our country — to say the production of electricity, this wealth does not remain in the country and that it is a wealth that migrates. I emigrated because most of the companies that exploit electricity don't even have their headquarters in our country; therefore, they're running away from Galicia. But it also emigrates because we have no advantage in electricity production, and we believe this is basically a political decision. And it's a political decision because having a single tariff is not a divine rule that establishes the market. It is a decision by the Government itself, in this case of the State, which since the 1950s has established a single tariff which must also be said is not the norm in all countries around us. You visit the United Kingdom, you visit Switzerland, you visit Germany, and you will see how you have different rates, where you take into account who produces and who doesn't. So there's a first lie, which usually uses the People's Party, and which is already falling. But we don't need to see what's going on outside the borders of the Spanish State today. It's that in the Spanish state we already have different electric tariffs depending on the territories. What happens here is that the People's Party uses this logic of being militants in Galicia, and then the logic that the People's Party uses is an inverse Greek electric tariff: instead of paying less we're going to pay more for a decision attributable to the People's Party, which will make the Greeks and the Greeks have to pay up to 70 million euros more for the price of light, and because there's a decree — that, by the way, Mr. Feijóo's government has not challenged — that states that, if there are territorial supplements, that is, taxes that we set here so that the companies that are polluting have to pay, because the People's Party decided that these taxes do not have to be paid to them but they have to be paid by consumers. [[Applause]] I mean, here you challenge that polluter-paying principle and what we do is what makes you pay. And we also pay for the energy taxes that are consumed in Madrid or in other parts of the territory where we're exporting to. And this is a real barbarity that we cannot afford, a nonsense, but that does show us that in the Spanish state it is possible, with the current legislation, that there are differentiated rates. What the People's Party has to tell us is why they support a tariff that raises the price of light to us and why they're against us having a lower rate. This is a perfectly legal proposal; therefore, they do not come with excuses from bad payers. All we want is to apply a principle that is a principle of common sense, which understands anyone. And it is that, having a wealth that is being produced in our country, that wealth is being used for the benefit of the majority of society and also for the better development of our country and that our companies have greater competitiveness. In short, let us benefit from the wealth that is produced in our country. And how do we implement this tariff proposal in the law that we are debating today? Well, in a very simple way. We have established that the price of the electricity tariff in a territory takes account of its situation as surplus territory. And that means it would be established, in the territories that produced and exported over the last four years on average more than 25% of the energy they produced, a reduction in the rates of 30%; which, translated to the invoices to be paid by the Greeks and the Greeks, would mean a decrease in the receipt of the light by 15%. We believe that in economic terms this would mean an annual saving of EUR 500 million in the bill of light, which means an saving of almost 200 euros per person in the bill of light, with the application of a measure that — I insist — only depends on the political will to put it into effect. And that will where we first have to materialize is precisely in the Greek Parliament. I also want to draw the attention that we are talking about inciting a part of the bill that no longer depends on the electricity market — which we would also have a lot to say about how the price of energy, which is a real fraud, conforms to. We're talking about inciting a part of the bill that depends directly on the political decisions that governments take in turn, such as the fees. These taxes, which globally mean about €25,000 million that we are paying consumers for decisions that the state has taken; decisions, for example, as we cost each and every loss that transports energy. With the data we have, and which are data, besides, officers, the average loss of Galicia in energy transport is 6.32%, in the case of the state is 9.76%. So in the state the transport of energy is 54.2 percent more expensive than in Galicia and what we are -- or what you are, because this doesn't seem fair to us -- is contributing to artificially reducing the price of light and paying us the transport of energy when we are producing it in our country. We also have at these rates the extrapeninsular costs of energy production on the islands, which has an estimated value of some 1,800 million euros; the aid of coal, of which, by the way, Galicia is excluded, 500 million euros; we pay in the bill of light the nuclear moratorium, we are talking about 5,700 million euros; we are also paying in the bill of light the aid to combined cycles, by the way, many of them that do not produce anything at all, but we are paying them 500 million euros. And what we ask ourselves is, if you can pay the nuclear moratorium, if you can pay extra-pensular costs, if you can pay the aid to the cycles, that is, if you can pay to the electricians, why can't Galicia be compensated for its surplus situation and we can have in a country that has so many problems — from the economic, social point of view, that we are seeing as our people emigrants — that we use a resource to really develop our country and give it a chance to make things better? I insist, making this possible depends only on us putting Galician interests ahead of the interests of the electricians or the interest that the state may have, because it does not always coincide with the general interest of our country. Of course, from BNG we think it's better to put first Galician interests than the People's Party is doing, that it systematically defends the interests of electric monopoly, and I imagine that to compensate for those rotating doors that they so much like to use. [[Applause]] But, as I told you at the beginning of my speech, this proposal also has other aspects that have to do with the energy model on issues that are important. The first is that we believe that we must end the legal aberration that allows the Spanish state to rise to light because it has imposed on the electricians. That's a question that, even though the People's Party said it would never happen, now we see how the Supreme Court is speeding up the proceedings for this measure to be put in place. It's a real barbarity. The Board has already made a mistake when it did not bring an appeal against the decree that required those taxes to be paid by consumers, and now we believe it is important to eliminate that legal provision that allows in the future to do so. There's a very dangerous background and, of course, we don't think it can fit this aspect that invades, in addition to Galicia's competences. A second aspect to us that is important has to do with the boost to renewables, we're at a time not of change of conception of how energy is produced. In Galicia and throughout the Spanish state, by a decision of the People's Party, there was a halt to the development of renewables and we still have a frame that goes against everything that is being done in Europe, and it is that it penalises self-consumption and self-production with that sun tax, which is a real barbarity. And here we also propose changes in those areas where we set obligations to encourage renewable energies and we propose to eliminate that tax in the sun and really favour self-production and self-consumption; that in a country like Galicia, with such high population dispersion, would mean a very important decrease in the cost of electricity and also in the cost of electricity transport. And we move forward by introducing the net balance, which is the most extended mode in the world and which is especially interesting to encourage self-consumption in homes. The net balance is to give in to the electricity that you generate when you're left, for example in the central hours of the day in many homes, and instead you can recover that same energy when you need it most and, for example, that there is really a cycle that allows that self-consumption to be real. A third aspect that we introduced in this bill, which is fundamental also to our country, is to modify the system of interruption. Today we had a news that this means for Galicia, a system that introduces instability in energy and electricity prices, which affects companies that have a great consumption in our country and that represent a very important part of employment, as it can be Alcoa, where today we have headlines: "Alcoa plays its viability in a new electric auction." We believe that we must end this system, that in practice is a subsidy to the energy of big industries, for an industrial tariff that is really predictable and stable in time. It's not logical that there are hundreds of jobs at stake every year for a system that doesn't make any sense. And finally, an issue that is important, sensitive and on what we have had deep — at least many — debates in this Parliament, such as the fight against energy poverty. We are seeing how the measures taken are still insufficient. Today we know that the Galician Union continues without publishing the electric ticket, we see how the social bond that was launched in the state does not reach half of the families that should potentially be users. We have 18% of the population in our country that has energy poverty, that cannot stop heating in winter because we cannot afford the luxury of paying such a high cost, and that, therefore, in a country that produces electricity, when electricity has scandalous benefits, we have people going cold in their homes, and that's something we can't tolerate. We propose to move forward in this area, because we believe that it cannot be allowed to cut off the light that cannot be paid to, that the cost of this measure must also bear the State and not the autonomous communities, and therefore we are going to a regulation that is more ambitious in this area. In conclusion, today since the BNG we have defended this non-law proposal that aims to change the energy model, which seeks that the Greeks and the Greeks have benefits from our electrical specialization; we believe that we have to leave behind that vision that the People's Party of Energy has as a business, a business for a few to then use the rotational doors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u5	...—finished—and changing that conception by electricity as a public good. We think it's best that the electricians earn a little less and people don't have to be on two candles going cold because they can't stop the heating; we think it's better that the electrics reduce their profits — that, by the way, they pay mostly in Madrid — and that in Galicia we see how this wealth is used to create jobs and well-being in our country. Finally, a proposal for a law so that no German or Greek will have to ask the question again how is it possible that being a country that produces electricity, we do not have a single benefit from that speculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of taking into account this proposed law of the Nationalist Block Galego, although, as I have explained throughout the intervention, logically there are points, many points, according to possible agreement, and some points of discrepancy, which we certainly do not agree or share. But, of course, the ultimate objective that is to see, on the one hand, is that the electricity market in Galicia and Spain does not work properly and that, of course, in any way, the route — of tariffs, taxation, to which it is considered — it is necessary to compensate for environmental and other efforts suffered by energy producing zones, and undoubtedly in that general vision if such coordination exists. The electricity market has indeed been subjected to a privatization process that has begun in the 1980s, but it is also true that the acceleron, the acceleron occurs when it occurs. And it is surprising that at the end of 1996, when Mr Aznar had barely four months to rule, he signed the first protocol between the government and the electric employer Unesa, which takes place in 1997, barely eight months later, to the first law in the Spanish electric sector. It is true that later we rule others, and it is true that that law has not changed, but it is also true that the following amendment is made, which is of the year 2013, already with Mr. Rajoy in power, is clearly reinforced by the model that has already been drawn up in the Government of Aznar. And it is surprising, in particular, that since the governments on the right, they are articulated — as they say in some way — models of supply and demand that are so inadequate to what would be the economic and political theory of their mentors. We have an unheard-of fact on the demand-price theme of electricity in Spain. In the crisis, demand dropped between 5% and 7% and, surprisingly, prices increased by 60%. The truth is, Adam Smith would have been very hard to explain evolution. Why does this happen? Well, because this is essentially because the regulatory framework is a framework that is not economically efficient, which defends interests on the part, by saying so in a way, clearly defends the interests of large electrical companies, and is not revolutionary rhetoric, it is sufficient to see the results accounts of these companies to realize that they do not, indeed, respond solely to that supply and demand dynamics, but instead there are elements of political regulation that are reinforcing their results accounts in an absolutely spectacular way in the European context. And indeed, we have one of the most expensive electricity in Europe and Spanish electricity companies have one of the highest benefit rates in Europe. Then there's no surprise, but let's go back to the cake deal. It is clear that there is therefore another sector, which is the majority of the Spanish and Greek population, which is clearly damaged by this regulatory system. There is another dimension that I would also like to play, and that is actually touched, although it did not touch too much in the intervention of the BNG spokesman, but it does appear in the bill, which is the need to mix the energy dimension and the environmental dimension. Obviously, replacing energy -- what's called clean energy -- is a pending subject in Europe, it's a pending subject in Spain. There are clearly defined European objectives and, of course, it was necessary to move forward on that line. Between 1996 and 2004 there has been little progress, between 2004 and 2011, it is true that with a high economic cost, but it is also true that this high economic cost — via premiums — has to be discounted, on the one hand, the technological leadership and the economic activity it has produced and, on the other hand, without any doubt, the capacity that has given the Spanish business fabric to go out to international markets. Something that the right always speaks of as theoretical, but which then never computes when it comes to criticizing the actions of other governments. So there's a swing with lights and shadows, it's not going to be me — because I'm never — what I see in black and white, but, of course, there's been an important breakthrough in terms of renewable energy. And we arrived at the year 2011 and there was a brutal change in the regulation of renewable energy. As always, instead of preparing a soft landing, which was the reasonable in what is a replacement of energy technologies for another, something that is done in all countries like this, because Mr. Rajoy and that ineffable minister Soria — I suppose from weekend to weekend in luxury hotels for free in the Dominican Republic — decided literally to cut off the issue of premiums. With two effects: one, the international defiance of Spain; another, the lack of solvent economic signs for companies; the other, without any doubt, the total paralysis of the sector, and we will have an opportunity to speak at the meeting of the Industry Adviser. It would be interesting to collect, as a logic exercise of the philosophy class, the assertions of the various industrial ministers that it influenced the prices at the rise of energy, because sometimes they were renewables or the support to renewables, others were the paroon to renewables, others were the possible closure of coal plants, others were the drought, others were the interconnection with France; that is, all the problems were exogenous, government regulation had nothing to do with this asymmetry between supply and demand. I think it's so obvious that interests defend themselves in financial regulation and regulation of the price of energy in Spain that insisting there probably doesn't make much sense. But I believe that it is what is at the bottom, beyond the dimension, because legitimately a nationalist approach to the initiative itself; that is, the political power is clearly defending some interests, that of companies, in front of others, be those of consumers in the whole of Spain, whether of Galicia or of consumers in the Autonomous Community of Greece. In relation to the Greek electricity tariff — which, as the proposed group knows, the Socialist Party does not defend, because we have a different view — we believe that probably on the energy issue linear reductions in the tariff are not the best solution in terms of redistribution. I recognize you that I'm going to border demagogy, but sometimes it's a legitimate exercise: I don't want to lower the rate to light up pools and tennis courts in Zapateira or Canido, I don't want to. I want strongly redistributive tax systems that guarantee that those who cannot afford the energy of a well-regulated market — I am still not defending this market regulation — because they have public support to do so. I think that is, from the left and from the position of the Socialist Party, what we have defended and what we have already discussed in the ILP that has been discussed in this Parliament and that is our position. [[Applause]] On the subject that Mrs Pontón also spoke about that mythical transposition that, instead of those who pollute pay, those who suffer the effects of the pollution paid, we absolutely agree, Mr Pontón. We brought this Parliament, we brought a bill, precisely to change that legislative framework, which we saw threats on the horizon; the only ones who don't see it was the People's Party of Galicia, who understood that this was part of this catastrophic discourse on this dangerous and disruptive left that is breaking society and the country. It is true, and I remember once I said it here — by the way, I had a certain murmuring from the People's Group — that, of course, it is right to turn to Madrid and defend the environmental character of wind cannon, encouraged water tax, etc. We all understand that they are environmental taxes. What's going on? That, when Mr. Rueda's taxes were dropped so that he would play to buy motions of censure in certain municipalities, taxes would cease to be medium-environmental to be political taxes of the People's Party. And so now, PP gentlemen, it's very difficult to defend in Madrid that these taxes are environmental. [[Applause]] We all know they are. We all know that when you charge Fenosa Natural Gas for the support of the Pears, because, of course, in the Pearls, beyond the expropriation incomes, which were few in franchise, the environmental impact is there. But it is true that in your game — by the way, a repeat game — I recommend that you see the memory of the 2018 budget. You keep saying that these three clearly environmental taxes half go to environmental corrections; the other half seems to be Mr. Rueda's toy to buy wills. With which one cannot, on the one hand, resort and, on the other, clearly legitimize what the arguments of that instance are before which one resorts. Unfortunately, we are going to have to pay — I am afraid — these supplements, which clearly benefit companies...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u9	...and, therefore, we find ourselves in the situation in which — I insist — the Socialist Party has certainly signaled from the beginning. And, on the subject of social tariffs, of all kinds of social tariffs, we continue to say what it is about moving towards a universal basic income, which allows those basic needs — food, housing, energy, etc. — of citizens to be covered. By the way, this evil government of the Valencian Community — which, yes, does not become rich until the Pope's visit — has just started a process of progressive introduction of a universal basic income. That's what makes us different. By the way, I'm very proud of that difference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u11	We have to go that way. What has been said — Mr President — so far in Galicia is absolutely ridiculous — let us say — of own harvest, of autonomous policy. I want to remember. In the budgets there is a target of 3,000 beneficiaries. The number of non-income homes is 33,000 in this autonomous community. Ten percent. I think it'll make it easier for you to think about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u12	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u13	Good morning to all and to all. The reality is, if there was an Oscar in the world to the most neoliberal law, to which most attention was paid to the rights of consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises, to the law that most expounds citizenship and public resources, the Spanish Law 24/2013, of the electricity sector, approved by Mr. Rajoy, would be sure to be appointed, and the truth is that he would have many possibilities to carry Oscar. In fact, the lords of the London School of Economics and the Ibex 35, designers of that design party who is Citizens, applaud with their ears and don't give credit to so much scorn. Between 2005 and 2016, the price of electricity for the domestic consumer in Spain increased by 100%, when in most countries around us the increase rose by 25% to 60%. A very remarkable case is that of the Netherlands, where the price between 2005 and 2016 was reduced by 17.07%. We would have to analyze here the influence of the Dutch Government's decision to take control of the distribution network, as we propose in the sixteen proposals that we will report at the end of this intervention. Normally, business benefits, in any industrial sector, depend on the correct investment made, on the optimization of their production, distribution and marketing processes, and, in the case of electricity companies, on the prices of raw materials — coal, gas, etc. — which is the same for all European companies, and also on climate. But in the Spanish case, they have an exceptional doping called the Official State Gazette. And all political decisions shaped in it are those that condition the electricity market, being one of the most dependent sectors of these decisions, decisions of the Government of the People's Party always favorable to oligopolie companies and tremendously detrimental to most citizens and to the competitiveness of businesses. It doesn't matter whether it's cold or hot, whether it's raining or not, whether it's winding or not moving a leaf: in Spain and Galicia, electricity always rises. And what are the main causes that we have one of Europe's most expensive electric tariffs? The first, no doubt, is the market power of a group of three oligopolis companies: Endesa, Iberdrola and Gas Natural Fenosa; a market power which translates into that, according to the annual report of the agencies of European regulators (ACER), Spain's three largest marketers control 90% of the domestic market, and which also count with the enthusiastic support of the People's Party and Citizens's, who, together with notable tenants of the Socialist Party -- perhaps they might go out of there telling them -- people's board of directors of these three companies and actually develop what is electricity policy in our country and in our state. The second fundamental cause is the design of the wholesale electricity market as a de facto mandatory Marxist market, in which producers and traders must participate every day in order to sell or acquire their energy; a design that allows a small number of companies to exercise their market power to set the marginal price, so that technologies, in production contests far below the marginal, such as nuclear, wind or hydraulic, get huge and unjustified benefits, which are called the fallen benefits of the sky. I always tell the same anecdote. It's as if you go to a large surface that has very competitive prices, buys the purchase of the whole month, but then one day, at an hour, you have a particular purchase and you have to go to a store of those 24 hours of a large chain that costs 40% more and the next day they said: look, as you paid for this 40% more, from now on everything you bought all the rest of the month, also 40% more. That's how Marxism applies in Spain, when reality is that 80% of the energy demanded each day in the electricity company pool is being auctioned; a procedure in which companies trading and producers of the same business group exchange numbers in their spreadsheets with the only objective of maximizing their profit. While the percentage of energy managed in the daily market in France is only 20% and 14% in the United Kingdom, in Spain the daily market manages more than 80% of the energy. Consequence: Spanish power stations duplicate and sometimes quadriple the benefits of Europeans between 2013 and 2016. The benefits of Spanish companies are the highest in Europe in results with regard to their invoicing. The results of the large electricity companies were in these five years of 8% on billing, when in France they were 4%, in Britain 1% and even in Germany, because of the huge spread of self-consumption, profitability was negative in these years. All citizenship and all companies and entrepreneurs have to know that, when they vote for the People's Party or Citizens' Party, they're voting to pay between 20% and 40% more a month in their receipt of light. In the face of this situation — it will not give me time to read all the proposals, but we will circulate them so that they know what a true progressive citizen innovation law might be, that innovation that takes into account the real interests of the entire citizenry and that In Marea and its state group will also take to Congress to try to pass it, our proposals go on the following line. First. To exclude, as I said, from the pool of day-to-day thrusts to wind production, hydraulics, nuclear and part of coal, while it's active. All of this would lower the price in a very important way. Eliminate the obligation of traders to participate in the daily market in order to acquire the full energy of their customers. This would also greatly facilitate market access to independent traders on equal terms. To require real separation, as the European Union marks, with clearly differentiated companies in capital and structure, from production, distribution and marketing activities. Here is completely separate: Natural Gas Production, Natural Gas Distribution and Natural Gas Marketing; totally separate. It takes control of the management of the distribution network by the state, which, according to our calculations, could lower the distribution fees by 40%. Centralize in the system operator the management of all hydraulic and pumping production, so that it does not happen what is going on, which gives the inavailability of hydraulic power stations to raise the price of the daily auction, as happened in December 2016, which then Iberdrola received a fine of 20 million euros, but the benefits of increasing the price of those days assumed more than 200 million euros for electricity companies. Derogate the article and all regulatory provisions impeding physical bilateral procurement; that is, a marketer can buy directly the energy produced by a producer. Total growth of self-production and self-consumption, which led to prices even falling in Germany. The abolition of the so-called "imposed on the sun" and the application of the recent judgment — which seems to be handled by the People's Party in the Government by the Constitution whenever it wishes — of the Constitutional Court, which sentenced four months ago the unconstitutionality of the prohibition collected in Law 24/2013 — where we are talking about — of shared self-consumption and, in addition, ruled that this shared self-consumption must be legislated and managed by autonomous communities. If the People's Party doesn't bring that law to this Parliament immediately, it will do so in Marea, which would greatly favour neighborhood communities, business centres of all kinds, and with a low probability of its very important bill of light. Very important increase in thrusts and power concessions to install renewable production; returns by the electric incentives for the theoretical costs of transition to competition, once proven that this transition, quite the contrary of retracting its results, increased them tremendously. Exhaustive audit of the tariff deficit. Analyze their legitimacy and, if so, demand their partial or total return to the power companies. And we're talking about 3500 million euros that they charged because the competition was going to lower prices, when they really went up to 100 percent. Prohibition of rotational doors. No politician who had government responsibilities may be a part of the executive office or board of directors of electrical companies for a period of ten years. There are plenty of other places to work. To change the concept of taxes taxes to electricity, which is currently being charged equally to all consumers. Replace it with a tax on electricity consumption, so that you really load those who consume the most and not those who almost can't even pay the energy they consume. Study the download of EVI for the powers and consumptions established as essential. Move to the general state budgets various games included in the fees that have nothing to do with the electric service. And, of course, to develop a true and fair social bond, in line with the proposed law that we will present at the next plenary session. With all these things, electricity in Spain could fall between 20% and 40%. What's the reason it's not done? Well, just favour that 8% benefit that the electricians have in front of the full collaboration of the People's Party gentlemen and the applause of the Ibex 35 lords, who already know who they are, the Citizens' Lords. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u14	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nóvoa Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs Pontón, you have had Members in Madrid and have not submitted a proposal for a Greek tariff. It's not up to us, ladies. Look, the answer to why not a Greek tariff for Galicia, because it's not good, was given to 9 of the 10 visitors who intervened last year in the commission we had dedicated to the treatment of the ILP of energy poverty. Those, Your Honor, were the ones who answered you. They bring here today a bill based on the amendment of the law of the electricity sector of 2013, an initiative loaded with demagogy, irresponsibility and insolidity, and even with a lack of constitutionality, which has already begun to be customary among you, gentlemen. An initiative with only one article but which aims to modify very relevant and very important aspects in the current law of the electricity sector. I'm going to summarize the most transcendent, because time is limited. Mrs. Pontón, in the Law of 2013, since the 1990s, energy has been regarded as a service of general economic interest, since human economic activity is not understood without its existence. This definition, Your Honor, is in line with what marks the legality of the European Union, and in the interests of the People's Party's governments it is to allow all citizens to have access to this important service. So they leave the demagogy of the public service, Your Honor, that society and the economy have moved forward, and they are no longer anchored in an ankylosed past. By this law, you intend to remove a basic principle, not only for the electrical system, but for any management of the administration. They intend to eliminate the guarantee of economic and financial sustainability of the Spanish electricity system, and the system's imbalance may occur again and again with a high tariff deficit. Don't ask us to communicate with this, Your Honor, because we're not irresponsible. You have been collaborators, and indeed you have been accomplices, of the Government of Mr. Zapatero, who has generated the greatest hole in the electrical system of history not only of our country, but that there has been nothing like it in any other country of the world. Do not pretend, Your Honor, that we support this initiative. [[Applause]] Look, this is a graph -- you guys who like graphics and papers so much -- very, very bright. When did the tariff deficit occur? In Mr. Zapatero's Government, Your Honor. That's one of the fundamental explanations Galicia and this country has a much more expensive electric bill than other countries, Your Honor. You present a proposal with a liberalised change of self-consumption so that it has virtually no limits on power, which generally does not have to contribute to the payment of maintenance of the networks and which would be out of pay. You are based on what you self-consume, as you don't use the networks, you don't have to contribute to your maintenance with the fees, and I imagine you'll know that these fees also pay the tariff deficit I just showed you, Your Honor. Then what do you intend? You intend to benefit consumers who can pay for self-consumption facilities, which can be unachievable in most cases for people with less resources, and that these most benefited consumers do not pay an important part of their bill, Your Honor. Above all, what you want is to be paid by others, others who cannot afford the luxury of self-consuming. Look, they're presenting a completely unusual proposal, Your Honor. Don't ask us to support this because we disagree. We're clear that photovoltaic energy is a kind of energy that needs to be boosted, now that the costs of the installations are lower. But don't ask us to support it to harm the most vulnerable consumers. Another of the changes he asks for, and the theme they have, the mantra that has the Nationalist Block Galego, is the creation of the alleged Welsh tariff, again based on the character of which we are a surplus community of energy. I, innocent of myself, thought it was clear, after almost a year we spent with commissions dedicated to this subject, that 9 of the 10 experts told them and clearly recommended that it wasn't good for Galicia, but you're still. Only she defended her ex-Deputy, the proponent of the law, but she was an ex-Deputy of the Galician Nationalist Block, Your Honor; the others did not defend her. They're planning another bad business for Galicia again. The cost of the electricity system in Galicia is around EUR 1 billion, and what we pay the Greeks does not reach 800, with which there is a difference of nearly 300 million that does not cover the cost, Your Honor. The experts told him and they didn't listen. You know that we wouldn't earn anything, that, on the contrary, we would lose. However, it doesn't surprise us very much, because, if we were to follow their indications, we would now have a financing system through a coupon that we would lose at least EUR 1 billion each year. And we don't talk about this, Your Honor. We are not going to follow these initiatives or support them. They demand in this law the modification of supply suspension actions for the most vulnerable people; a proposal that seems very difficult to understand and to comply with. Again, Mrs. Pontón, they're late. The State Administration and the Galician have already incorporated aid after the reformulation of the social bond, and it is already acting for the benefit of the most needy. At the state level, there is a reformulated social bonus that incorporates the income criterion, and in certain cases, for the most vulnerable consumers, supplies will be considered essential and cannot be interrupted. And besides, the marketers will have to notify before they start cutting in electricity. The application of this bond has been extended until October this year, in which the two bonds will live, so that no one will stay behind. At the autonomous level, you know that, with last year's approval of the ILP, Galicia has legally shielded the payment of 50% of the bill of light for the Greek homes. And besides, forget to tell that Galicia has helped families with less resources since 2014 and even expanded to gas in 2016. Help, ladies and gentlemen, who have benefited over 7,000 Greek families. By continuing the interruption service, the Autonomic Administration is in constant contact with the Ministry of Energy to improve the current system. And you know, or you should know, that these changes are motivated by the recommendations of the European Union, which say that this system was a expensive system compared to the other countries in our field, and therefore the state government is changing, moving towards a much more beneficial interruptability service for both the industry and the Greek consumers, who also pay for it in their bills. Go ahead, Your Honor, this Government is in favour of Galician electro-intensive companies, and it will always fight so much because they benefit them and all the Greek consumers. And finally, Mrs. Pontón, as far as the analysis of the law is concerned, we're talking again about the territorial supplement. Look at us — this group and the Government — we reiterate that these taxes do not record electricity, they do not record activities intended to supply electricity. The purpose of these taxes is to compensate for the negative effects these activities have on nature, so their collection is intended for the conservation, repair or restoration of the environment. So neither from this group nor from the Government is it understood that these supplements can be passed on to the Greek consumers; they are environmental taxes. And you should know that both for us and for the Government, the mandate adopted unanimously in the 6th Commission of this Parliament, at the expense of Mr Losada's initiative, and for us, that mandate remains in force. Speaking of the interventions of the other parties, Mr. Losada, I've been a little while as a Member, but I've already told you other times that I and we all know the energy history of this country, and, of course, you can't come here to teach us lessons. You can't talk about ministers because if we talk about ministers, we can talk about Mr Sebastian. Look, this law that approved the State Government came to solve the hole you provoked. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it's not good to come here to suck and question everything, want to break the law and not look back. You were the one who talked about the past, so you told me to talk about the past. It is that more than 30 billion euros from the tariff deficit, Your Honor, we have to keep paying them! I'll give you some data that you may not know. In 2008, nearly 2,800 megawatts of photovoltaic energy were installed, equivalent to 3 nuclear power plants, and the most powerful. At that time, half of the panels that were produced all over the world came to Spain. Those that were produced all over the world came to Spain, when it was a hypercarious technology. So in 2004 the tariff deficit rose to such a level, I've already taught it before and I'm going to teach it again, that now, Your Honor, for twenty-five years we have to be paying it. And we, the usual, the People's Party governments come to solve the problems left by the governments on the left of this country, gentlemen! [[Applause]] On the subject of supplements, we hope that Mr Losada will be next to the Government and that he will continue to support the mandate we unanimously approve. I hope he stays there! Look, Mr. En Marea, your energy posture we've already met. He came to introduce her here, but we've already met her. You change it depending on whether you meet with a union. They put forward a proposal, then they have a meeting with a union, and they put it back. We don't take them seriously, Your Honor. This government is not next to the big power companies. He's not, no. Because since we ruled, we have opened 2,500 files with sanctions of nearly 24 million euros, and when they ruled, for example, the Bipartite lords, they opened 9 files with a value of 97,000. That must be remembered, it's important. We are implementing initiatives that reduce the bill of light in administrations, important reductions! So don't tell me we're also next to big companies because we're reducing their bill. The central government, I told you the other day, is with an initiative to reduce pay. We'll see what you and your group do at the Congress of Deputies. Let's see if the Minister is supported. Let's see if it's true! So we're not the ones who are next to friendly companies and we've signed contracts to related companies. We're not like you, we're not against big industries. We're not like you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u17	I'm done. This group cannot support this initiative because it is insolidary with the rest of Spain and with the Greek consumers themselves; because it is a bad business for all; and because I have already said before it presents features of lack of constitutionality. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Replica. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank both the PSOE and En Marea for their contributions in this debate. We've come here to talk about energy in our country, of course, we have disagreements on some issues. But, well, at least, I think there have been points in common since the debate. I think the representative of En Marea is aware that in our initiative we are dealing with aspects that have to do with changing how the price of energy is set, favoring an energy model change, a transition from the point of view of how we produce, which is obviously one of the important debates that we have in our country. But, of course, we also think that we cannot give debate on the role of Galicia from the point of view of energy production in this country as if we were in Murcia. So when we have a very specific situation, in which we also live a continuous policy of our resources, the most left-wing and progressive we can defend is that the energy we use in our country is used to improve the living conditions of our people, and therefore to meet a basic principle that is established in the Declaration of Human and Universal Rights itself, and that people have the right to use our resources to develop and improve the life of our country, and not — as it is doing in this case — where a good that is a public service, and a good of all the Greeks and Greeks, here only leaves us the contaminating part and the worst part of the process. So I also encourage you to reflect on this aspect and think about it from Galicia, because I think that's what can change the becoming of our country. [[Applause]] I also thank PSOE for his position on the subject of autonomic supplements. We know the debates — as it cannot be otherwise — which have taken place in this Parliament. It is also true that when we defended the abolition of these autonomous supplements in Congress in 2013, the Socialist Party held a very different position on that occasion. If this is the new position that PSOE has, welcome, because I think it's an important step forward. [[Applause]] And with regard to Mrs. Novoa, for I was very angry. I don't know why they're upset that we're taking initiatives to improve the chances of our country. I had for a moment the feeling that I was bluffing myself for bringing a bill to this Parliament. Anyway, when we make proposals, they bother us, when we don't make proposals, they say we're just criticizing. [[Applause]] It's very hard to have them happy and happy, less bad they have most, if I don't know what this story would be like. For you the defense of public service is demagogy. I mean, defending electricity like a public service is demagogy. No, no, it's a fundamental change of conception, because you defend electricity as a few business! That's how they led to the privatization of the electricity sector, which is one of the big scams in this country. I was very small then, but I have quite a good memory, and I still remember how we were told that privatization would spoil the price of light, because as there would be more competition we would have the cheapest light. [[Applause]] In the last ten years the price of light has almost doubled in the Spanish state, so the wages have not risen! And, therefore, it seems to us that the mantra that you use for liberalization to improve living conditions, and whether it's defined or not as a public service, is a fundamental change. Because you'd rather a few do business than most have access to a first-needed asset like electricity. And this too — of course! — is an important debate for the future. You also have a selective memory, which is part of how the People's Party builds its accounts. The tariff deficit does not invent the Zapatero Government — I have no interest in defending it — is that Mr Aznar takes it from the Law of 1977, from the electricity sector, that is where he starts. [[Applause]] And you come here to bear all the blame on the PSOE -- that I don't think they are holy and there are no questions to tell them -- but there must be a lot of hard face to come here to defend these kinds of issues with that face. [[Applause]] What we would like is for the People's Party, who put on Galician militants' shirt, to demonstrate it in practice by defending its own tariff for this country. A basic principle: that we can benefit from electricity production. Because, you know the worst? — and with this I conclude — the worst thing is that the Greeks and the Greeks that we produce electricity above us make a greater effort than the average of the state to be able to pay for light, because we have lower wages and lower pensions. And you, who have agreed, for example, with PNV a lower rate for your companies that allows them to save 50 million euros, they don't want a Greek tariff that would allow us to save 500 million euros to businesses and families. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The reality is that we have a country where the Galego Institute of Statistics itself is warning us that there are 180,000 people who can't stop heating. That while you're begging me, you don't care because you don't have problems paying bills. But what the IGE tells us is that in the last year, the number of people who have problems paying their bill of light and water has doubled. The highest figure since 2013...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u21	...but you don't care and don't take any steps to improve people's lives, you'd rather keep the benefits of electricity and the energy policy of our country than defend Galicia's interests. Too bad, because this country deserves something better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Debate on the proposal for a law, for its referral to the G.P. Congress of Deputies. of In Marea, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 of 30 October, so the recast text of the General Law on Social Security is approved
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u25	For the presentation of the bill Mr. Lago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u26	Good morning. Law 23/2013, which has amended the public pension system, is actually a radical reform that under the intent of recovering the financial balance of the system, what it does is to reduce spending, i.e. lower pensions, current and future pensions. A radical reform, because it abandons the logic of making two fundamental conditions compatible: the economic sustainability of the system itself, but the adequacy of pensions as well. A radical reform because it breaks with previous basic consensus and principles accepted by most, as was the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions. A radical reform imposed by the absolute majority of a party against the rest of Parliament, breaking the logic of state agreements. A radical reform that is in line with a clear constitutional mandate, which requires the re-valuing of pensions to ensure the economic adequacy of pensioners. Above the Constitution, above the social and political consensus, above all the pensioners, the important thing was to obey the Troika's statement that imposed the strategy of austerity, the reduction of public spending, also in the public pension system. The reforms of 2011 and 2013 are an attack on the welfare of pensioners, because they have been imposed with the sole aim of cutting the amount of pensions within the strategy of reducing public spending and deteriorating the state of well-being. They were imposed on the hardest of the recession by fulfilling Troika's dictation, the saying of extreme austerity, refusing to seek a change in the system's financing model by increasing its income. The 2011 reform proposed raising the ordinary retirement age from sixty-five to sixty-seven years; it increased from fifteen to twenty-five years the period of payment for the calculation of the pension; it tightened the access conditions by establishing, among other measures, the need to contribute thirty-seven years to be entitled to 100% of the pension. The 2013 reform is simpler, but even harder, because it anticipates 2019 the application of the poorly termed sustainability factor, but above all because it eliminated the updating of pensions linked to the CPI, the price increase, by introducing the so-called "pension revaluation index". Let us be clear, all these measures have only one objective: to reduce the amount of pensions paid by pensioners. The current, through the revaluation index, and the future, that will suffer from 2019, the sustainability factor. That is, you're looking for a supposed financial balance of the system at the cost of lowering pensions. The so-called sustainability factor means a gradual but sustained cut in time, which will result in a very significant reduction in the initial pension compared to the last salary, which is known as a rest rate. It has a perverse logic, the pension will be reduced as life expectancy increases, the good turned into evil. As if you're going to charge more years, you're going to charge less every month, because the pension will be lower, with the idea of sharing the same global amount in more years of life. It is already known — because the calculation is done — that when it starts to apply, starting in 2019, it will result in a reduction of 0.7 % in the initial pension. A initially small loss, but as it accumulates with the passage of time it will become 15% loss over the initial pension in twenty years. But the hardest cut in the 2013 reform is the so-called revaluation index. First, because it affects all pensioners, currents and futures. Second, because it condemns a continuing and cumulative loss of purchasing power. Turning off the increase in the IPC pension will cause — and it is already causing — a profound deterioration in the pensioner's standard of living, because prices are much higher than pensions and will therefore lose value in real terms. As the formula is defined, the revaluation rate will never exceed 0.25%, and that is to condemn the almost freezing of pensions permanently for decades. Against this minimum figure of 0.25, the most conservative forecasts estimate that the CPI will be about 2%, which is the target figure defined by the European Central Bank. It has already happened in 2017, an increase in pensions of 0.25 and an IPC of 2.1 % on an average annual basis, which meant a loss of 1.85 % of the purchasing power of the Greek pensioners, which amounted to a loss of more than 200 euros annually. The Government's plan is to make this situation permanent by condemning pensioners to a continuing deterioration of their economic situation. If revaluation is always going to be 0.25 and IPC is going to be 2%, that means pensions will lose 30% of purchasing power in the next 20 years. It's not a personal or partial opinion, and we should not even waste time discussing this, because there are institutions that count on the academic or political majority who clearly say so. I will literally read a report from the Banco de España, as is literally Leoo as it is written: "The fall in the replacement rate will occur by the operation of the sustainability factor, which would reduce the initial pension of the new retirement courts. And, above all, by the rate of revaluation...—attention—that implies a decrease in the purchasing power of pensions. Or Banco de España says: "The functioning of the revaluation rate would lead to annual increases in pensions of 0.25% each year, which in a context of growth of the inflation rate in the environment of 2% would result in systematic loss of purchasing power of pensions. The sustainability factor, for its part, would reduce the initial pension to around 7% in 2030 and 12% in 2040." The Banco de España said. Accepting these estimates — which I hope will not be repeated in this House — in twenty years pensions, in real terms, will be about 40% lower than they would have to be for the purposes of 2013 reform. 40%! The pensioners will lose 40% of their purchasing power, and this is unacceptable, because it would turn the low pensions we have today into poor pensions. To be better understood: it is as if the current average pension in Galicia, which is 788 euros, was today 473, the pension for self-employed persons, which is 561 euros, is outside 337 and the widow's pension is outside 330 euros a month. Is that decent? Can you live a person with this amount? Obviously not. They'll be poor pensioners, convicted of looking for jobs in black, depending on their family, selling their home. Deestimating pensions will also have serious consequences for people's lives and even economic growth in the coming years. He's going to assume the loss of purchasing power of 750,000 people, which is the current number of pensioners in Galicia, but that's going to reach a million people within twenty-five years. They're people who have no alternative to compensate with other income for the loss of that 40% of their actual income level. It will lead to an increase in poverty and inequality, because pensions, which are low today, will be put, with that 40% loss, below the poverty threshold. It will deteriorate the well-being of 35% of the Greek homes; one out of every three of the Greek homes that have the fundamental income in the pension. It will weaken the growth of the economy and the creation of employment, because spending by pensioners is about a quarter of household consumption, and reducing its purchasing power is about weakening domestic demand, which is the fundamental component of economic growth. There is a report from international financial analysts saying that evaluating these figures will lead to lower GDP growth of 1.5 points per year and not generating 300,000 jobs each year. This condemnation of the impoverishment of pensioners defends with only one reason: that the system has no means to bear that pensions go up the same as the IPC. We don't like it, but we do it because we have no choice. However, this idea is a fallacy, as shown in an official report by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security delivered to the Standing Commission of the Toledo Pact. The Ministry included in this report a table of how pension spending had evolved to 2050, with a very revealing result. If the economy grows by an average of 2%, it is much lower than the historical average of the Spanish state since we recovered democracy and revalued pensions with the rise of the IPC, pension spending would be 11.8% over the current GDP by 12.8% in 2030 and 13.9 % by 2050. That is, by updating pensions, increasing them as much as the IPC, spending would increase only one GDP point in thirteen years and two GDP points in thirty-three years; an increase more than reasonable because in that time it will increase the number of pensioners and, therefore, it is logical that we allocate more resources, greater funds, to the public pension system. It is possible to do so, we can fund 1 GDP point or 2 GDP points for the public pension system and meet 14 million pensioners in this country. Is it possible to make 1 GDP point, 2 GDP points? All of a sudden, yes. There's a fundamental idea, and it's that over the next thirty-three years, it would be long enough to correct the gap of 8 points of GDP in tax pressure that Spain has compared to the European Union average. The fourth part of the tax normalization of the Spanish State with regard to the European Union average would be sufficient to allocate 2 points to the system to make it compatible with its financial balance with the revaluation of pensions, with decent pensions for the people of our country. If this is so, what is it, why doesn't the Government do it in spite of the enormous electoral cost it's supposed to be? The answer to this question is also in an official document: the stability programme presented every year by the Government of Spain before the European authorities to show that it properly complies with the Troika's words. On page 41 of the latest update, the Government defines its income and expenditure policy dominated by a fixed idea that is almost an obsession: reducing the size of the public sector. The Government plan is to reduce the current public expenditure of 42.4% of GDP to only 39.2% in 2020. That is, 3.2 points less GDP, equivalent to almost 40 billion euros. This is why the Government does not want to update pensions despite the enormous social pain that causes this decision and the serious consequences it will have on the well-being of the citizen, and even on the economy. It's not because of an economic restriction, it's not caused by demography; the real reason is the Government's neoliberal fundamentalism, its obsession with reducing public spending. Pensions are 1 out of every 4 euros of Spain's public expenditure and therefore, if you have the strategy of reducing public spending, inevitably, you have to act on the fundamental component of that expenditure. I'm done. The Spanish Constitution in its Article 50 states: "Public authorities shall ensure, by means of adequate and periodically updated pensions, the economic adequacy of citizens during the third age." It's a clear constitutional mandate. A government that accepts the Constitution needs to update pensions so that they can have economic efficiency and a decent life for pensioners. That is why the debate cannot be whether or not it is possible to update pensions, because this has already been decided by the constituent, the only real debate is how we do it. Article 50 is of the same value as Article 135 or Article 155; it requires the re-valuing of pensions to a government which meets and complies with the Constitution. You can't be a part-time constitutionalist, you can't decide according to which article, this is yes, this is not. For this reason, we present this bill, in which we propose the derogation from Article 210.1 and Article 211, which regulates the sustainability factor, and the amendment to Article 58 of Law 23/2013, so that pensions are updated, at least the same as the CPI. I'm finished with a final idea. In the lead time of austerity, unacceptable reforms were imposed in this country. Labour reforms are generating poor workers, pension reform is going to cause poor pensioners. We're at a decisive moment in our history. We're on time to avoid it. We therefore call on this House, the Members of this House, to think about their country, who think about people, who think about pensioners around them and not to make this falculate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u27	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Before we give the floor to the representative of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we greet the 5th primary students of the López Ferreiro Training Center in Santiago, as well as the teachers who accompany us today. Welcome to Parliament. Now yes, you have the floor, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u28	Good morning. And good day to the students and students of the school in Santiago. I want to start my intervention today — before you start talking about the public pension system, which is also about your future, children and children, because we are supposed to preserve the future of pensions so that you, when you are older, also have the right to them — by supporting workers and workers at the Monforte Hospital, who are on strike today; by strike in defense of a public health and quality, because it is not possible that public health and quality in a hospital where the staff is disabled and increasingly diminished, where they systematically close whole beds and plants, where there are constant private leads, where there is a permanent mobilization of staff from one service to another, where there is overwork and care pressure and instead of improving a commercial hospital, their situation is worse. With which, from here today, from this gallery of Parliament, I want to transfer to them all the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. And going to the subject we are dealing with, we continue to debate about the public pension system, about the open debate around its viability, about the threats it faces, about the official lies, the half-truths and all the publicity around them. This debate around its viability comes from a distance. For years now, the breakdown has been forecasting, the breakdown of the system, and every time you want to make a reform, a counter-reform, every time you want to put in place a new measure to cut down the system, it's always preceded by a debate, and a debate that always comes up in it, a debate with very simplistic arguments: that life expectancy increases progressively and there are fewer contributors because of the fall of the population. And from there spread the social alarm, pleading that in the long run there will be no money to pay the pensions. The goal, then, is clear. This argument has been repeatedly repeated by all instruments having power — which, of course, are not few — by all the means of communication to the service of that power, extends that social alarm. And I say this debate comes from a distance. In the 1990s there was already that debate. A strong advertising campaign by the bank, the insurance campaigns, in that direction to raise private pension funds, and for this it is necessary to frighten the public population, presenting the public pension system as inviolable. If the population is not afraid of that inability of the pension system and the public administration is not cutting the public system, the population does not go directly to that public system. The data is there. If in 1990 there were 320,000 people in the Spanish State who had a private pension system, in 2000 there were three and a half million people with a private pension system and in 2017 we already have eight million people with a private pension system. Of course, like Guadiana, we are repeatedly waving up that campaign and we see that it is taking effect and, of course, we are not yet on the levels of other states of the European Union which have private funds, with which, there is still ground to frighten the population and that they continue to go to private systems. And this is also accompanied by a breakdown of private pension funds. The goal is to transvade public resources from most of the working class population towards the capital. Since then in the 1990s, the international debate on pension reform has always been dominated by the theories raised around the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, committees of experts, obviously experts always linked to these committees of wise men, always around these interests, which always determine that, in fact, not to take action, the public pension system will be inadmissible; a progressive, constant, premeditated and designed attack. In 1997 the Government of Aznar approved the law establishing a fundamental change, which is that all of the tax pensions leave the budgets and simply emerge from social contributions. In 2007, already with a PSOE government, measures are considered to increase the amount of time charged; to qualify for a pension, an increase is established; contributions to the employer are reduced. In 2011 retirement reform is passed from 2027 to 67 years old, from fifteen to twenty-five years old, the period of calculation of the pension regulatory base is increased from thirty-five to thirty-seven years old to the age needed to collect 100 per cent of pensions, the supplement of minimums is reduced. In 2012 the Government of the People's Party reformed the unemployment system. And the law of December 2013 puts the colophon on these reforms. What brings you? It definitely unloads up-to-date IPC pensions and introduces the sustainability factor. So, what does that mean? The entry into force for the year 2019 is approaching, that is, next year, and you will take into account life expectancy; that is, the more you live the less you will be charged. But also, according to this factor, as life expectancy increases, the monthly content decreases to perceive by people. A clearly unfair factor, doesn't take into account that not all people have the same life expectancy, for reasons of class, of origin, of profession, of quality of life, of training, of resources, as we all know. A sustainability factor that accumulates at the rate of revaluation, frozen, or reduced to 0.25%, which means in practice loss of purchasing power, or, what is the same, cutting pensions. This was complemented by the looting of the Pension Reserve Fund. In short, the year of attack on the working class while the masters' orders of the European Union protect themselves from the evasion of capital, corruption, subsidies to the Church, rescues the bank, rescues the highways, increases the profits of businesses, decreases their obligations, attacks on the majority of society, attacks and theft of the working class, the majority of society, and privileges to the capital. I mean, we have a perfectly defined scenario: while thousands of millions have been put to the bank rescue, continuously because I steal from the working class. I want to remember that pensions are not a privilege, they're a won right, they're not a gift from anyone, they're a successful right to the confrontation of the working class, and with the lowering of revaluation, with the rise of retirement age, with the increase in the period of calculation, with the introduction of the sustainability factor, with the lowering of wages, it's a real assault and an organized theft, which, of course, with all these measures, what is intended is to continue on a progressive increase. With which the BNG will support this bill that brings here today in Marea, which is part of the problem, from organized theft to the working class, just like other aspects that we have brought here, which had to complement evidently. The fundamental problem is the ongoing reforms that bring only the continuous theft of the working class, which, of course, the BNG will continue to insist that there should be a derogation, that we have to reverse all that package of measures that only they do is that the working class present the bill in pensions and that goes also in the whole package of theft in public services, which, of course, must be confronted in the legislative part but also in the part of the confrontation because on the street and that these measures must be reversed. With which, Mr. Lago, we are going to support these measures, because it is clear that, in a context where there is no absolute majority of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies, it is more than imperative to reverse that legislation which is not harmful, the next one, to the working class. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists, in this case, have already anticipated our vote in favour of taking into account this bill put forward by the En Marea Group. We support this bill, among other reasons, because our parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies has put forward initiatives that go the same way. Socialist men and women think it's a lack of respect and a fraud to pensioners the attitude they have adopted by the Government of the People's Party, which repeatedly proclaimed that pensions during their government would never have a reduced pay; yet it took not a year to fail their own promises. The truth is it's a further proof of the failure of the People's Party's commitment to its country, to its inhabitants, to its population. The Government of the People's Party in Spain has undermined the social protection system, firstly, with a pronounced and provoked decrease in social security income and, subsequently, with an insufficient increase, always with the results below those recorded during 2011, and thus causing the weakness of the system itself. The freezing of the minimum inter-professional wage, its translation, therefore, to the minimum basis of contribution; the reduction of wages caused by the reform of the labour market of the People's Party in 2012 and therefore its direct impact also on the transfer to the workers' contribution bases; the establishment of flat rates; and reductions in social contributions, as well as other measures that have diminished income, have been taken exclusively by Social Security, and therefore these policies of the People's Party have generated the instability of the system itself. The Socialists have suggested that there is enough excuses to speed up the decision-making that would enable the revitalization, stabilization and sustainability of the public pension system. It has to ensure the recovery of the purchasing power of pensioners and it has to restore intergenerational, territorial and sectoral solidarity for the public protection system. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't worry: if you don't approve of it here, in which they will be demonstrating their ideology, it will be the street that wins this battle and socialist men and women will be back beside the pensioners' men and women in that country, and that battle will be won, whether you want it or not. It is therefore urgent to anticipate measures to strengthen the system's revenue structure, so that adequate funding and the sustainability of the system are guaranteed, while maintaining levels that are worthy of coverage. Since 2011 it is true that public pensions have been limited to their revaluation, but it is that with Law 23/2013, with the comprehensive reform of the pension system, in addition to accusing a significant loss of purchasing power, there is no guarantee of their future, even worsening when we see that by the end of 2016 and during 2017 pensions are revalued by 0.25%, but prices increase by over 1%. Therefore, the decline is much more significant for the purchasing and purchasing power of our country's pensioners and men. The seriousness and duration of the crisis, the intensity of unemployment — especially the long-term one — and the deterioration of working conditions for a large number of people in our labour market and a declining demographic evolution — and the policies of the People's Party have not thought this would be reversed once and for all, results in a continuing deficit in the social security system and that during the governments of the People's Government in the state it falls to almost 9,000 million euros, which increases the deficit of social security, when ruling the People's Party. See, the current public pension system, which was adopted in 1995 with the Toledo Pact and which is established as a system defense mechanism, allowed a Social Security Reserve Fund with more than 66 billion euros in a decade, to be provided — I remind you: President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's Government – remaining in 2017 — Government of Mariano Rajoy, uninterrupted, People's Party — in less than 55,000 million euros. Therefore, the difference is 66,815 to 8,095 in 2017. [[Applause]] That's your contribution to the public pension system. And you know perfectly well that pensions acted during the crisis period as a vertebrate element of society, allowing the cohesion of citizenship, and the Ombudsman himself in his memory 2017 also highlights the transcendental role of the pension system during the years of crisis. The Socialists, in the Congress of Deputies and in the various autonomous parliaments, have presented a number of initiatives aimed at guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions and correcting the budgetary imbalance of the social security system, as this bill has been tabled by the En Marea Group. See, at the Congress of Deputies, on 14 March 2017, an LNP is already being introduced to repeal Law 23/2013, which calls for urgent action to be taken to reach a social and political agreement within the Toledo Pact on the rate of revalorization of pensions which guarantee their purchasing power and which is derogating from that law and which, as long as this agreement is reached, pensions are revalued in accordance with the inflation forecast and taking into account a clause of deviation from this inflation. On 12 September 2017, a motion was presented again on the measures which the Government intends to take to correct the deficit in the social security system, without further delay and ensuring the purchasing power of pensions now that they have virtually exhausted the Social Security Reserve Fund, and it was agreed that within three months, after negotiations with the social partners and without prejudice to their debate in the Toledo Pact, the necessary measures were taken to ensure the financial balance of the public pension system, ensuring its sustainability and the adequacy of them. On October 24, there is another motion that reiterates the firm commitment to the maintenance and improvement of the public pension system. But, in the face of the continued failure by the Government of the People's Party, on 27 February 2018, the Socialist Group of the Congress of Deputies re-registrated a bill that its fundamental objective is once again to ensure the sufficient re-valorization of public pensions for 2018 and to adopt urgent measures of budgetary rebalancing of Social Security and that the proposals promoted by the most representative trade union organisations, namely the Workers' and UGT Commissions, are collected. The proposal, like the one presented here today, has two articles. In the first, which materialises the annual revaluation of pensions 2018 through an initial increase of pensions, which is equivalent to the inflation estimate for this exercise. And in the second article, ensuring purchasing power, being the central objective of this initiative; this increase would be made with inflation forecasts and would allow pensions, in their case, to be increased if deviation does not correspond to reality. Therefore, the firm and united commitment of the socialists and the socialists to the re-valorization of pensions and the dignity of the pensioners' men and women in our country is unquestionable, and there we will be, and sure that you, as happened on March 8, will have to be, because in the street the pressure will not make it obvious. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I have the feeling that the initiative that brings us today the tides of Podemos is inspired by the theory of a Member of his own formation, a Member in Cortes, Mr. Fernán Vello, who said that "the Greeks were an ignorant people." And that's why I think they bring this bill, they intend to approve a bill to send to the Congress of Deputies and that this initiative can be approved within two years, which is the time that this sort of bill proposals that we send to the Congress of Deputies, that's the parliamentary strategy of En Marea to show its concern about the pensions of the Greeks and the Greeks, that this initiative that can be approved here, in two years' time, is discussed at the Congress of Deputies. I think we are faced with a cheating proposal, because if you really wanted to raise the pensions of the Greeks and the Greeks, what you would do is support with your 5 Members in Madrid a parliamentary majority, which is that of the People's Party, which intends to approve within a month the general government budgets, with an increase of between 1% and 3% for all pensioners in our country. You come here with artificial fires, artificial fires. [[Applause]] Look, we can spend as much time as they want to discuss pensions, but there's a reality that's undeniable, there's a proposal from the Government of Spain, there's a proposal from the Central Government, to raise half a million Greek pensioners their pensions between 1% and 3%, I insist, half a million Greek pensioners. That's a real proposal for adoption within a month. Are you going to vote in favour? Are they going to vote against it? They're going to vote against it. They've announced it, they've already said it, they've even said it before the general government budgets are presented. So, Mr. Lago, what is this initiative that you bring us? It's nothing, it's smoke, it's empty like the benches of your group. An empty initiative, of an empty group, that doesn't think about Galicia, that thinks about how the headline can get out of the paper tomorrow. It's the only thing they care about. You'd rather shake the banner before doing real and real things to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. Mr. Lago, the extension of retirement age to the age of sixty-seven, the increase in the number of years to reach the pension, was an agreement of the Socialist Government of 2011. You criticized him a while ago. A socialist government agreement in 2011 with trade union power stations, UXT, with Workers' Commissions. And why did you criticize him seven years later and not criticize him in 2011? I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] Criticize him now, criticize him in this forum. I have to tell him that you are seven years late to make this criticism, seven years late. Maybe they didn't criticize him because who ruled was the left, and the left always does everything very well, right? and maybe they didn't criticize him because you were in that union that also signed with the left government. And those did make cuts in our pension system. [[Murmurs.]] See, revaluation index, between a minimum of 0.25% and a maximum of the CPI more than 1.5%. That's the rate of revaluation, so don't tell the things in half. You always talk about 0.25%. 0.25% when things go wrong. Look, of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, only four maintain a pension revaluation system based on the IPC, the rest of the countries — twenty-four — for you are all wrong — rely on rates similar to those applied in Spain. So we can't buy him and accept his speech, because he's based on an absolute fallacy, an ideological positioning of good and bad, political manicism on which the tides of Pudimos are installed. Look, we defend, at the worst moment in our country's economic history, a national system, a public pension system. We defend him as no one, without the support of anyone, and therefore we have to tell him that in the worst moment of the crisis, in 2011, it was a Government of the People's Party who disengaged pensions, and let them go because you frozen them, on the left, with their conviviality. They don't come to teach lessons now of any kind. See, since 2011 pensions have risen every year, since 2011 pensions have risen every year. In 2017 pension expenditure was €139 billion, which is 40% of the budget managed by the Government of the State. It was this government, none of the left, this government, that of the People's Party, which applied reforms to improve and guarantee the future of pensions. Look, we put in place a maternity supplement in the pension of working women with two or more dependent children, which means a 15% increase in the pension for these women. We did it, not you. You guys didn't do anything. Freeze them, and you look somewhere else. We broaden the pensions of working women at the worst moment of the crisis. [[Applause]] We increase widow's pensions in our country by 6%, thanks to this measure by 6%. You're nothing, freeze them. That's the reality. And, therefore, you think they fix things from the banners, but they don't do anything at all on the signs. What credibility does the opposition have when it speaks of these issues? Well, it's pretty low. Mrs Prado, from the BNG, was talking about our alleged concern about private pension plans. Look, that's a fallacy, it's a lie, it's just a lie. See, in Spain, private pension plans absorb 12% of family savings, 37% in Europe. That's reality, that's reality. We've improved public pensions, Mrs. Prado, more pensions, higher pensions and longer. That's what we did, without support, of course, from the left. [[Applause]] The truth is to listen to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, of the Socialist Party, to talk about these issues produces some tenderness, because, do you know what happened to the pension fund? Do you know what happened to the reserve fund? It's just that we had to get hands on the reserve fund, because you put 3,800,000 workers to the ground, so the system was unbalanced, there was more expense and less income. Therefore, that curve, which taught us, taught it to fellow parties, because it was the curve of mismanagement, of irresponsibility, of the inability of the socialist government. Your management, your party and your government. Look, if you want to do something for the National Pension System, you approve the general state budgets, and pension increases will be guaranteed within a month, not within two years, which is what Mr. Lago wants. We approve these general government budgets, which include tax deductions for pensioners and families, that is, they are less tax and more money in the pockets of the Greeks. General government budgets that will improve minimum pensions and widower pensions, and this means more money in the pockets than they need most, Mr. Lago. The rest are demagoxies that don't take us anywhere, and by the way we approve the budgets that will give the shipyards of the Ferrol River, which — at least for me — are a great concern. We accept lessons from all over the world, but we do not accept lessons from those who haven't done anything by the National Pension System during these years. Frozen is what you did. Now, in Spain, more pensions are paid than ever. In Spain, pensions are higher than ever before, and they are paid for more years than ever in the history of our country. That's a reality, not thanks to you. We would like this debate to be a serious debate, which we talked about how to improve the system, how to make it viable, how to make it sustainable. And you know how to do it? By creating jobs, creating jobs, and, of course, you can't teach us such lessons. We, of course, with that job reform, which you know so much about, have created in our country 1,800,000 new jobs since 2014. All you did was destroy them, and you -- those who today propose this initiative -- look to the other side. That's what you guys did. Therefore, lessons in this sense are not willing to accept them. Mr. Lago, I am frankly surprised that you are the one who came to defend this initiative after an information published this same weekend that shows that there are wages that rise much less than pensions in our country, in which you, moreover, have the ability to raise them, as are the wages of workers of Labour Commissions in Galicia, who complained these days that they have been on the frozen salary since 2013. I have the feeling that this works from "selling advice that I don't have." That's, a little bit, the philosophy that follows. [[Murmurs.]] See, average pension in Spain in 2010, EUR 884 per month, in 2017, EUR 1,070 per month. The average pension of new pensioners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u34	...of those who now enter the system, in 2010 it was 1,150 euros, in 2017 it is 1,400 euros per month. Mr Lago, I ask you to look to the future and to speak seriously about this issue, which we are serious about because today we have ten and a half million pensioners in our country, but within thirty-two years — which is not so much — there will be fifteen million pensioners in Spain in 2050. We've established a serious, solvent system that keeps itself in time and is responsible intergenerationally. We increased spending, Mr. Lake, on pensions: 95,000 million in 2010, 139,000 in 2017. We said we wouldn't touch pensions during the crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u36	...we haven't done it, and now we've increased pensions. So what we ask is common sense. If you want to raise the pensions of the Greeks, let's not wait for this initiative that you bring to us in two years' time to be discussed at the Congress of Deputies. Let's do it now, let's do it with the state's general budgets, and within a month we can raise the pension to 500,000 Greeks between 1% and 3%, by the way, progressively, we climb the lowest. Are you against it? You have a chance in the general government budgets. You have five votes in Congress, in the tides of Podemos. So if you really want to be interested in pensioners in our country, we don't have an appointment within two years, we have a meeting within a month at the Congress of Deputies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u37	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica, author group of the bill, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u38	Well, with regard to a parliamentary debate, I want to respond to the spokespersons of the BNG and the Socialist Party by thanking them for the vote in favour, and even for making criticisms and comments. I even share what the BNG spokesperson put forward, I think this is a partial initiative that does not suit the whole of the cuts in the public pension system, which has to act on them, but this is today the social demand in the streets, end with the sustainability factor and end with that rate of revaluation. So we brought this to Parliament because it seems like an urgent battle. With less to do with a parliamentary debate — I don't know why, I think it's because of the music I've heard in the morning, I'm too relaxed — I'm not going to fall into the dirt of the debate. I don't think we should do it, we shouldn't mess with budget debates, a political leader should distinguish what is a rally from what is the House where popular sovereignty resides, and what must be the arguments used. The Members of the People's Party did not pay attention, but I did not quote the People's Party once and for all, I did not once in my speech any disqualification, I did not speak of Hernando, I did not speak of Cifuentes. I wanted to have a serious, serious discussion about pensions, and that's enough...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u39	Quiet, quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Laughter]] Quiet. We shall end this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u40	And the People's Party arrives in its intervention and what it wants is to pollute the debate by talking about things we don't talk about here, introducing elements that don't have to do with our proposal, disqualifying organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u41	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u42	...using dequalifications to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u43	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Sánchez, please. Mr. Lago is in use of the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u44	I'd like to be in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u45	No, no, that's why. I'll give it to you. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u46	A gang of hooligans. Let's see, Mr Tellado, I brought you a concrete debate, and I'll read back to you what the Banco de España has said. Or Banco de España says: "The functioning of the revaluation rate would lead to annual increases in pensions of 0.25% each year." —all the years— "And as the inflation rate will be in the environment of 2% would generate systematic losses in the purchasing power of pensions". Of course, if you rather than debate that, what you're trying to do is to pollute the debate to elude that element, I'm not going to do it. I will not fall into the mud to debate with arguments, at last, which have no meaning. What we are debating, Mr Tellado, is next. There is a 2013 law which condemns — convicted, because it says the Bank of Spain — that pensions lose 40% of their purchasing power in the 20 years on average that pensions will be charged. Do you agree with that or not? Do you agree or not? That is the element of the debate. What we're saying is the following...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u47	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u48	What do we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u49	Silence! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, who is explaining himself is a man of his party, who is explaining himself. You don't have to tell him what to say. Quiet. No, no, and don't get in by provoking those of the other group. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. That's it! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Okay. [[Murmurs.]] You got it. Let's not play with fools, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u50	This is the central element of the debate that this En Marea group has led to the Congress of Members and brings to this House. Are we going to allow pensioners in our country to lose 40% of their purchasing power in the next 20 years? Who's going to be an accomplice to that decision? The second part of what we said here is that this process is not inevitable, there is no reason for economic restraint that prevents us from acting. And that is what we support, Mr Tellado, in an official report by the Ministry of Employment, which says that spending on pensions, revalued according to the IPC, would increase one point on GDP by 2030 and two points on GDP by the year 2050. Say it Fatima Bañez. Well, why don't we discuss it? I'm so proud that I was an economist of Labour Commissions, so proud of that, that you can't provoke me. In the union when we did a negotiation we learned something quickly, when an entrepreneur would circumvent the discussion and insult us we already knew we were right and we didn't lose the papers. What I'm telling you is the following -- and I end with this idea -- is your model, the model of Law 23/2013, implies the reduction of 40% of the purchasing power of pensions, it's converting pensioners into poor pensioners; it's not a statement by En Marea, says the Banco de España. It tells the ministry that it is possible to finance it if Spain is normalized in budgetary terms with the European Union. Finished with an idea of that argumental falsehood...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u51	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u52	...which surprised me. Let's see, Mr. Tellado, if the People's Party wanted to override Law 23/2013, how long would it take you to do that? Less than approval of budgets, less approval of budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u54	So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u55	Thank you, Mr. Lago. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u56	...in short, we have serious parliamentary debates, we focus on where the discussions are and we don't use mud and smoke curtains to hide the shames.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u58	At the end of the debate, we moved on to the vote on the legislative texts. Mr. Lago, please sit down. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I didn't hear anything, I don't know. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I didn't hear anything. I don't know what happened, the truth. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Calm down. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. I don't know. I don't know what happened, I don't know! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But well, please, just calm down! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote. [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote, please. First, let us vote on the proposal for a law to present the G.P. before the Congress of Deputies. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Law 24/2013 of 26 December. Voting of the Bill, to present to the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Law 24/2013, of 26 December, of the electric sector, for the impulse of electricity as a public good and guarantee in its access. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u59	We now vote to take the bill into consideration, for its referral to the G.P. Congress of Deputies. of En Marea, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 of 30 October. Voting of the Bill, for your referral to the G.P. Congress. of In Marea, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 of 30 October, so the recast text of the General Law of Social Security is approved. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u60	Open the doors, please. The vote was closed. Let's turn to agenda item 2, which corresponds to appearances. Mr Economia, Employment and Industry, on their own request, has the sympathy of Mr Economia, to report on Galicia's energy guidelines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u61	That's what the economic, employment and industry advisor has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today in this House to explain and present to your lords the Energy Guidelines of Galicia 2018-2020. A tool that we consider to be central within the energy policy of the German Government and will enable us to achieve the goals of saving and energy efficiency arising from the European guidelines. With them we seek to establish a clear long-term framework that enables Galicia to move forward towards a new energy model; we seek to lay the foundations for installing new renewable capacity; we seek to foster a change in patterns of household consumption, administrations and businesses; and we also ultimately seek to take advantage of the energy transition to increase the competitiveness of our economy, create jobs and boost economic activity. We do so with the conviction that all our efforts today to extend the use of clean energy will mark our progress as a modern society and determine the degree of competitiveness of our industry. That's why the goal of starting is to get the energy efficiency culture to be on business day-to-day, and on family day-to-day, because today we can't talk about energy without alluding to the need to make rational and efficient use of it. Given that Galicia is a privileged place where biodiversity and natural resources are concerned, since the Galician Union we understand that we should have a plan that would ensure that the use of this natural environment was efficient and, in addition, it was also sustainable. A plan to boost a sector that in Galicia represents 4.3 % of gross domestic product and so that we can remain one of the most electricity-producing autonomous communities through renewables, in particular the second one. From this premise, these Galician energy guidelines were born, which are and constitute the old man to push in the community the smart transition towards a new sustainable energy model, with a public-private investment of more than 3,000 million euros in the next triennium and with the expectation of creating more than 12,000 jobs during the period of application of the guidelines. Energy guidelines that don't start from zero, actually collect the work we've done over the past nine years, when we mobilized a public-private investment over EUR 2.7 billion, and which we hope to make a qualitative leap with them, taking into account, above all, that we are tripled the annual investment in the energy sector. We make a qualitative leap to improve the quality of life of the Greeks by cutting energy costs and increasing quality in supply. And we also want to achieve a sustainable economic growth by betting on energy efficiency and renewable energies of an autochthonous character. In this sense, the investment programmed up to 2020 to boost clean energy in Galicia will be EUR 1.3 billion. It will allow the installation of more than 1,200 megawatts to increase the production of electricity from renewable sources. It will be, ladies and gentlemen, more than 1,000 megawatts to produce electrical energy through wind, biomass, hydraulic and photovoltaic, and around 200 megawatts of thermal power from biomass as well, joining solar-thermal, geothermal and aerothermia. On the horizon of 2020, the prospect is that between 85 and 90% of the electricity consumption in Galicia comes from renewable sources, and that biomass — a resource in which we are betting and which is a very significant step in our country — represents 35% of the consumption of heat fuels. Following our comprehensive strategy of support for this sector, which this year spends eight million euros on aids for new equipment, but what is added, too, is a new biomass plant that will be built in Curtis. In this line, and within the bet on renewable energies in Galicia, I want to emphasize that the Business Implementation Act is playing a decisive role in achieving these objectives. As you know, in the Business Implementation Act, which came into force in October last year, it contains the figure of projects of special interest. This figure makes it possible to speed up the processing of industrial projects of transcendence to Galicia, and now, at the moment, 20 new wind farms that are to be installed in the community by 2020 are already declared to be of special interest. The twenty-one parks already appointed will cover an investment of €543 million, 500 megawatts of installed wind power and 7,000 jobs during their construction. The wind sector will therefore have a special role in the energy guidelines of Galicia until 2020. And we're already taking steps in that direction, and that's why I can anticipate that in summer the two new wind farms that are being built in Muxia, the Muxia I and Muxia II projects will come into operation. In total, 68 megawatts installed, with an investment of more than 68 million euros, and the creation of more than 200 jobs in their construction. In this way, we will continue to work, within the Government's energy policy, on reducing consumption and also on raising awareness about energy efficiency. We have the goal of saving about 150 million euros a year, with a reduction in consumption by 4%, and we will do it by acting on both the Administration and the homes and cities as well. In that sense, in the Public Administration we will continue to develop savings plans, and through Redexga, which has already saved EUR 23 million since its launch, we want this amount to double in the year 2022, with the total savings of the Government of Wales of EUR 45 million and, therefore, our administration to be exemplary and transfer exercises of good practice where energy efficiency is concerned. Secondly, another of our points of attention will be in the Greek homes. More than 12,000 families have already received support from the Galician board for payment of their electric bill, and on that line we're going to follow. These are measures which are now also envisaged with the State Social Bonus, which will allow a greater number of Greeks to cope with the payment of the electric bill, considering essential and uninterruptible supply to consumers who need it the most. Thirdly, together with the Administration and the homes, we also want to raise awareness of energy efficiency from pioneering projects in Galicia and Spain through the development of ecobars. The first Greek ecobarium will be installed in Ourense, and will take advantage of one of the main qualities of Galician thermal capital: geothermal. In fact, the goal is to establish there Europe's first geothermal network, with a development of a district heating network of more than 5 kilometres, which will allow an investment of 8.3 million euros; a bet to supply heating and hot water to half a hundred buildings in the surrounding area, both public buildings and housing buildings, and a project that will allow the placement of facades and thermal envelopes, as well as the replacement of current lighting by LED technology or the promotion of sustainable mobility. A starting point for this project will be the implementation of the Ecobarium Office, which will enable the communities of neighbours and the different associations to be informed about existing aids and all the actions that the project envisages in the field of energy efficiency. We are, ladies and gentlemen, talking about a total investment of EUR 20 million and the creation of more than 300 jobs, to improve, in the Ponte district of Ourense, energy efficiency by 20% — which 20% of the energy consumed comes from renewable sources — and also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30%. [[Applause]] With this project, ladies and gentlemen, with ourense ecobarry project, we understand that we are going to develop an example of sustainable urban transformation that can be extrapolated to other cities and other Greek municipalities. Energy guidelines will also boost sustainable mobility. In this case, the bet will be on two very concrete issues, such as the development of the electric vehicle and also the introduction of natural gas for both maritime transport and heavy road transport fuel. The forecast is to achieve an economic savings of EUR 162 million in this biennium and to reduce by almost 400,000 tonnes the emission of polluting gases. Ladies and gentlemen, within the 2018-2020 Energy Guidelines we must bear in mind that the improvement of energy efficiency and the development of indigenous resources have as their ultimate aim to reduce Galicia's energy dependence. In this sense, I have to say that the goal that we're looking at with this new planning is that Galicia's self-sustainment rate rises by 35% today to 40%. For that we are very aware of the importance of improving the coverage, quality and safety of supplies, both in the effluent of gas, in the effluent of electricity, and in the effluent of hydrocarbons. In gas emissions, the challenge for the guidelines is to ensure that 82% of the population has access to natural gas by 2020; that is, 15 points more than at present. Also, 35 new municipalities and 20 polygons add up to those that already have gas supply infrastructure and, of course, launch the liquefied natural gas hub in the district of Ferrolterra through the collaboration of Reganosa, the University of Coruña and Navantia. With regard to electricity, we will focus on modernising the distribution network, demanding investment plans to distributors to increase quality and regularity, with particular attention to the demand for industrial areas and metropolitan areas and, of course, also covering the needs of the rural environment. Finally, with regard to hydrocarbons, we will move forward in the simplification of administrative procedures and in the development of practical guidelines for opening new service stations to increase competition and will also step up collaboration with the National Commission on Markets and Competition in the control of the sector. Finally, in the energy guidelines we address the challenges of innovation and R & D+i projects. It is about supporting innovation in sectors such as biomass, biogas or biofuels, and it is also about developing the Industry 4.0 model linked to responsible energy consumption. All of them are performances aligned with the objectives of the Strategy of Smart Specialization, which will seek the collaboration of companies, universities and Greek technology centres. If we want to save 150 million euros a year and reduce consumption by 4%, as I pointed out earlier, it is essential to consolidate the development of R & D+i in business. So we are pushing the marine energy experimental zone of the external port of Coruña, with a clear bet on the undimotrix energy and also the development of mixed energy innovation units, which are currently mobilizing 6.5 million euros; a commitment to R & D+i that we consolidate in the energy guidelines to promote the saving, efficiency and use of renewable energy, with planned investments of 30 million euros. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, accelerating the energy transition to clean energy to fight climate change is an imperative for all governments and all countries. In this sense, with the German Energy Guidelines 2018-2020 Galicia is moving from words to facts. They make a commitment from all areas, from the administration, from the Italian industry and business fabric, as well as from the citizenship itself. And they show that Galicia shares the challenges of the green economy and that it wants to be present and star this kind of economy, because not doing so would simply hinder economic development, our industry's competitiveness and also the improvement of environmental impact. The energy guidelines therefore combine the three key factors when we talk about an efficient and sustainable energy model: energy efficiency, environmental efficiency, and also the momentum of economic activity; a new energy model that we conceive not only as a necessity to ensure environmental balance, but also as an opportunity for companies in the German energy sector and to develop a more competitive economy. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, in line also with the Greek Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u63	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor by the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u64	Good morning. Mr. Conde, you will excuse me, but the first thing I want to move to you is a request, which is that you and your government take a little more seriously this Parliament. I know you guys have the absolute majority, but that doesn't give them, or I shouldn't give them, letter for everything. And we would like you to use the German Parliament to come to something more than give us press rounds, because, in fact, the first thing we knew about these new energy guidelines is this: the press release of March 5, 2018. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos is showing a document.]] Since then, the only novelty we have had from this Parliament on this issue is another press release, after a board of directors, where you theoretically adopted those guidelines. I wonder, were you both sending us a document, sending us those guidelines? We even know from the press that you presented them on Silleda's Energy Fair. So we'd like to have black on white, less data rain and headlines and more documents. To me, honestly, I'd like to think that it's a desire or that they do it just to upset because I'm the government group. But the truth is, after listening to it, I'm convinced that it's much more serious, because, once again, we're faced with this practice of the Greek Government that you make that they do, they make that they do and there's nothing new under the sun, and they can't really hide that what's behind this act is that there's no commitment to place Galicia at the vanguard of energy change. Little more has come to introduce you here than a bundle of repeated promises and no novelty. I'm just going to set an example. Today, which is chance to be April 24, 2018, we have heard of the "Ourense ecobarrio" since the first announcement on April 24, 2017 by Mr.Núñez Feijóo when he visited my neighborhood. [[Applause]] And look, we'd like to see the neighbours of the Bridge more execution, more works, more achievements and less promises, because, as they go at the pace of other issues to Ourense like the AVE, we can already wait until within twenty years. Moreover, we are concerned that once again no strategic planning or economic re-investment bets will be placed on the table, which will make up for almost a decade of paralysis. And maybe thinking a little bit about this, the explanation is that Galician energy guidelines that mark Madrid, not Galician Union. It's Madrid, and the board obeys without requisition. Without going into it that you lack your own energy model or the slightest desire to make our role as a producer not only increase but also have a social benefit, as we saw in the first vote in the morning, we have many examples of this situation that those who choose energy policies are Madrid and not Galicia. The first one is newer. I'm surprised you're here to talk about efficiency, talk about the environment, talk about sustainability, and make no reference to that new warning from the Supreme Court that comes to question the taxation that applies in this country, that we can discuss about it and that we don't like what you apply, but, in any case, we like it much less even if the central government questions our fiscal sovereignty. So, I'm surprised that you come here and that first they've been silent about the reform of the law of the electricity sector, which allowed these territorial supplements to be impacted on consumers' bill, and that now, at the doors of this is going to impact on the bill of the Greeks and the Greeks, you have nothing to say to us. I ask you, Mr. Conde: what now? What are you going to do now? Today we launched a proposal from this of the Galician Nationalist Block. We ask you to exercise the political path for once, which is the one that can get a way out so that this doesn't have any cost for Galicia. And we do not want to leave the opportunity to invite you today, Mr. Conde, to tell the Central Government that if someone has to pay the electricity, it will not be the Greeks and the Greeks, but you will have to scrape Mr. Montoro from his resources that count, because it is mainly the responsibility of the Central Government, even though it is also the silence of the Galician Union. So, I ask you to clarify whether you're going to have a powerful position or if you're, once again, dissimulating yourself so that, in the end, Galicia ends up paying and you're out of cover. But this, unfortunately, is not the only example we have that Madrid is the one who says Galician energy guidelines. I'm surprised that, speaking to us of a sustainable future, of an energy transition, I have overlooked the impact of CO2 emission levels that have in our country two major energy companies that are fundamental, not only because of the amount of energy they generate, but also because of the amount of employment and economic re-investment that they also generate in their communities. I imagine you are aware that I am talking to you about the Bridges and Meirama and that you must also be aware that in recent years neither you in the Council of Galicia nor the Central Government have done their duty to adapt to European demands. [[Applause]] So, I find it a little alarming that the Industry Advisor is coming to talk about these issues and that he forgets to denounce something that if we are going to report from the Galician Nationalist Block, which is a new aggravation through the 2018 State Budget Project for our country. Because you know that a provision is envisaged for up to 10 million euros to help these types of companies reduce emissions and that Galicia is going to be excluded because it is intended for the companies covered by the Coal Plan, from which we have already been unfairly excluded, because we do not have mines but if we have mining comarcas. So I ask you, Mr. Conde: what are you going to do? No, don't laugh, it doesn't sound like a laughing matter to me. Are you going to demand from the central government that Galicia has to be in those economic aids or not? And, Mr. Conde, resources are needed, not only for this necessary energy transition of this kind of company, but for many other issues that we are debating today. You've told us about a lot of branches of energy production, and what we miss is a bit of rigorous budget planning. More planning and less rhetorical of money mobilization, which is what they now use from the People's Party. You say there's going to be a public-private investment of more than 3,000 million euros, but to me the most exciting thing is that they say they've already mobilized more than 2,700. I'd like you to bring us a relationship of how and what. What really worries BNG is that once again we're ahead and what we usually see in presentations of the board plans is that you do it is to include games that already exist under that heading of the plan, but that they don't assume anything new -- I insist -- in a matter as relevant as energy to correct the de-investment of the years of the crisis and its governments. But above all, because the signs point to that you have less credibility, because since 2009 they have left out of running up to 60% of what you promised for energy efficiency programs; some of them -- we can also point out the latest -- have suffered significant budget reductions, or, without going further, last 2017 not only removed from the energy efficiency programs one million euros by budgetary changes, but still above only executed 55%. So, this plus an Inega budgetedly condemned ostracism leaves little credibility, even more so when you come to sell us you're also going to invest a lot of R & D+i, and there's not so much that you've been here presenting us with an innovation plan where you've reduced the economic target of investment in research as far as GDP. This is relevant to us because without it, the goals you set will not be achieved. And maybe this is related to what they're frankly unintended targets. I'll set an example. You want to get to a reduction in consumption by 4% and maybe, if that's done, it's not going to be for the effort of the Welsh administration, but because if, for example, we're doing a retrospective of the last decade and we're comparing Galicia's energy flows from the energy balance, we see how there's been several years where that reduction was wider; in fact, it's the last year available, 2015, which breaks the trend. It's true that there may be a part explained by the crisis, but there's also a significant reduction in what has to do with the consumption of the population and also with the loss of industrial tissue. So, we think it's a little ambitious target, considering, in addition, what technologies are advancing. And the question that should concern all of us and all of us and the planning of the Galician Union is that this tendency to reduce consumption is consolidated and, above all, to move towards a change in energy paradigm, which is what we are playing at. And we, on that path, miss their presence today several horizons that are key for us: first, investments and improvements in regulation to favor this decline in environmental impact to improve technologies and replace them progressively, because that's the key; if we don't go to that substitution, we won't get anything. Again here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u66	...—I have already finished, Mr President—very ambitious targets, and then I will set examples of the wind issue. We should also walk towards energy sovereignty, with the ambition that we are the ones who self-sufficient ourselves, mainly because primary energy continues to weigh, it's imported and it's the most polluting through fossil fuels. That would also serve to bet on public participation — once again the forgetfulness of its plans — to intervene in the model and so that the benefit of that producer capital can serve us — we insist again — so that electricity is a guaranteed right to citizenship, because the future model we want from the BNG is, in fact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u68	...more sustainable than the environment, but this should lead us to be socially and economically more sustainable to develop our country and not to continue with a policy that does not introduce transformative changes and that continues to keep us in this same picture for many more years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas Berganginos. Before giving the floor to the next spokesperson, I would like to send a greeting from all Members of the House to the fifth graders of CEIP Agro do Muinño, Ames, who have just entered the Chamber. Very good morning. The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada Álvarez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the truth is, if you had to hold your membership, I would have to translate it from French, because my French is not very good: in search of lost time. Magdalena's missing. [[Applause]] Look, in the Strategic Plan Galicia 2015-2020 — I'm sure you're aware — there was an energy strategy of Galicia 2015-2020, which now looks like it's going to be called 2018-2020. I guess you've been thinking about these three years. And I subscribe absolutely what the BNG voicer said. It would be very good if the opposition groups had finally had access to them, at last, I don't know whether the final document, the intermediate document, the initial document, the contributions... to what you want, but to something, because you know perfectly -- I've seen the website right now -- that there is absolutely nothing. I understand that if we are suspected of being able to guess, which is very well, but you will recognize that as far as this House is concerned because it is at least questionable, especially because you and the President of the Board have travelled through Silleda, through the Coruña, through Santiago... by the way, in the Coruña, you introduced it along with the Environmental Adviser; a chance... was the President of the Board then? Yeah? It's a coincidence he was in the Coruña and the environment advisor, purely political chance. So, we continue in the field where we usually move: advertising and propaganda, electoral, pre-electional, mid-pensionist... because, in fact, there is not only nothing new, but we go back to this of parapolitics, which already, after paralinguage, because it turns out to me... at least I know I lack rigor, that I'm going to advance it, because, seeing your intervention today, from then on, to rigor, that; to rigor, that. I subscribe to the request, but the very request of these 2,700 million euros mobilized, indeed, because we are, I insist, in parapsychology. What are they? I basically want to — taking into account that I don't have any documents and that, therefore, we are finally in a thing like science fiction — I'm going to ask you questions, basically, if you have to answer them, especially since you have unlimited time, which is an advantage in front of our ten minutes. First, you are aware that there are only three autonomous communities throughout Spain without a 2020 energy strategy plan. Don't look at me... as I knew I was going to look at that surprise face, here's the list. If you don't have it, I'll let the president pass it. Some of them, for example, Andalusia's first documents are 2014 -- that is, they've been delayed for four years. Likewise, rather than looking so much at Andalusia on some issues, for you should look at Andalusia, I say not elsewhere, but at least at all. So, I insist, there are three that have no energy transition plan and there are, therefore, 13 that if they do. It would be very good -- and you didn't say anything about it, beyond the presentation in the Coruña, which I think is common sense -- some kind of coordination with the Environmental Council, because if the Galician Energy Strategy doesn't have a coordination with the Environmental Council, I think it's limping in the beginning. Anyway, I hope you have something to say there too. At least say yes and then don't coordinate anything, but at least say yes, because, if not, you're calling us fools here. I insist, when they talk about European guidelines, they speak absolutely at the same time as energy transition and climate change; always, like a sort of Sergio and Stibaliz, that is, a duo. So, please tell us why not, or, if it exists, tell us what it basically consists of. [[Laughter]] And above all, we are told this subject of little rigour, which is to talk about budgets, a detail which is of no importance in politics. I know it's a secondary matter, but it seems to me that it's sometimes important. Let's start with the questions, Counselor--it's not an opposition to the Chair, but...--Eolik. The wind is the mystery of the absolute pyramid, but not because of what the socialist group or this spokesman says, because you in 2010 pulled out that plan -- I'm sure you remember it, although you weren't a counselor -- of 2,325 megawatts, 6 billion euros and 14,000 jobs. It's true that now it's lowered expectations—sorry, but it's really a little... in the end, melodramatic, not dramatic—of some variables, not others, because it's already only 1,300 megawatts, it's 3,000 euros and 12,000 jobs, which, in terms of competitiveness, is decreasing. I don't understand how just to invest 3,000 million euros are generated the same jobs as with 6,000 in 2010, when technology in theory has improved. So this humble deputy doesn't understand it, I'm sure there is some explanation that has to do with Zapatero, with Minister Sebastian or with some of these issues, but, in principle, as time progresses, the technological frontier moves and lowers costs. Well, with half the investment, producing the same jobs, it's amazing to me. It is true that you have dropped the amount Mr. Feijóo said a little bit. He spoke of 3,000 million, you already spoke of 2,700. I understand they're the same, if they're not... are they others? Are they different? Well, then, we went on, I insist, in this parapsychology, because I understood that they were the same, okay? But if they're different, I don't care if you tell me they're different. I want to know which are those 2,700 of those you speak of -- which is very easy, a row of them, because then we ask them in a written question or by article 9 and they don't send them; then, it's a little complicated -- and which are the 3,000 of those that Mr. Feijóo speaks of. There are three press releases from the Galician Union that I recommend you review for this reason of rigor: one from March 5, another from March 8, another from March 24, and the other from April 13. Variations on the same theme; a note below, which Johann Sebastian Bach would say. In any case, each one of his father and mother, different figures, speaking on the same subject, of course; that is, absolutely incomprehensible from any point of view, but, well, surely you are still the depositors of rigor. And then there's an illustration. In one of the headings, they say, "Balance 2009-2017." I'm sure you saw him. So it points out that among the main achievements — I repeat, eight years — the increase in renewable energy power of 783 megawatts, where it highlights the installation of I don't know how many biomass boilers, wind canon, gasification, etc. I'd like to know -- I'll give you the data I have, but maybe there's another -- how many of these aren't wind. I tell you how many are from the wind: since the rule of Mr Feijóo, 122 megawatts, according to data from IDAE and the Spanish Wind Association. I insist, 122 megawatts. So, I'd like to know exactly the other 661 megawatts of which I am. For biomass, it looks like a lot to me, considering that for now we've only installed 38. It's true that there's been some improvement in hydroelectric terms, of fusion, yes, but not this amount, I think. In any case, Counsellor, is it true that there are only 122 megawatts since Mr Feijóo's rule installed in Galicia? No, it's fake, there's more. Well, nothing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'd like to know how many and we'd like to know where and we'd like to know the date when they started producing energy and connected to the network. So that's a fact we'd like to know. And I insist that the data are from IDAE — that for now PSOE has no ability to modify —. So, well, I'd like to know. What I do know is Galicia's relative position in Spain. When you arrived, 19.4% of the power was installed. We lost, in five years, five points, we're at 14.5%. I'm going in a hurry because the truth is... finally. In biomass — which you talk about biomass so much — we had 10% of Spain in 2010, and we have, in 2015 — which is the last data I've ever met — 6.7%, we lost more than 3 points. Then we'll be doing a lot, but obviously there's someone who's doing more than us. We keep asking questions. We're very interested to know the position of the Galician board on the coal thermal calendar. We'd like to know if you've thought of anything, if you haven't thought of anything, if it's just about taking pictures of Mr. Feijóo when the modernization works are started, and what deadlines are these modernization works done; finally, those little details that just nothing has to do with politics, we all know that they are a technical matter, and that's why Mr. Feijóo, who is an engineer. In terms of public aid, what's new under the sun? And I say no more against the Bipartite grants, but against the Fraga government grants. Beyond, I insist, of the technological frontier, of course, there are new things. But what's new under the sun in terms of public help? There are a few levels of budget execution much lower than in the Bipartite, and much lower also than in the Fraga Government. On the subject of self-consumption, you have just said to the Constitutional Court that you cannot refer to the multi-year budgetary impact to change legislation. What do you think about it? Because the argument given by the Spanish Government's PP not to consider self-consumption resources was that it affected future budgetary exercises. The Constitutional has just said that we must adhere year by year; therefore, we would also like to know what you think of that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u72	It's over, Mr. President. We'd like to know what you think of the electro-intensive industries and the need to have a certain stability in terms of investment and planning, something that you like so much because you understand that the market is more efficient etc., etc. So we'd like to know that too. We'd like to know what you think of energy exclusion, we'd like to know if it doesn't get colored when you see that the target of covering the family's economic deficits is exactly -- in terms of budgets, it appears in memory -- 10% of households that have no income, 3,500 aids, 33,000 households. And then, of course, Mr. Counsellor, really, beyond multi-annuality -- which we all know is a very relevant contribution to the public farm -- what do you intend to do to improve the executions of the Inega, which are still scandalously low. They're so few that the last press release hung on the website is exactly a month ago. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u74	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. The first, really, is to put forward a formal protest for having to develop this debate without having a serious and substantiated document that supports something of everything you have stated here today. It can't be that Parliament is the second pass of the press rounds that you do on Thursday or other days during the week. Promise and promise. They have now promised 12,000 jobs, which will generate this plan between 2018 and 2020. The reality is, if we add all the thousands of jobs that go out on the front pages of the People's Party's friendly press every day, because there would be full employment here, they would have left jobs for the population in Galicia. The other day, we came to expect that one of these journals would interpret it in a way, let's say, enthusiastic about the topic of 12,000 jobs in the 2018-2020 term, and transformed them into 12,000 jobs a year; that's 36,000 jobs. We didn't listen to anyone from Galicia's board lying to him. All this is news, news, press rounds, a press round here... but reality, as a famous evening show says, is that we've heard a lot of news, now we're going to tell the truth. As we don't have other truths to mention, we don't have a report to tell you where those 12,000 jobs come from and where those 3 billion euros come from, because we're going with the data, see if this really has anything to do with the reality of budget execution. In 2017, the energy efficiency and renewable energy budget was €31,612,615 — a lot of listening — and the obligations recognized were €17,630,553. I mean, they left unexecuted energy efficiency and renewable energies 44% of the budget. That's data. In the German Plan for Research, Innovation and Growth, which you also mentioned, and which would have an impact on the development of clean energy, green energy and innovation in the areas of energy efficiency, the budget was 72 million euros; the recognized obligations, 55.9 million euros. I mean, 23% don't run. And we could keep looking for references. For example, the announcement of the 3,000 jobs for the fleet that built Navantia, which then the unions determined that it was 300, that is, 10%. Also the other day it came out in a Lugo newspaper that in one of the wind farms that are going to be built in Lugo, 1,000 jobs will be generated in its construction. But do you really believe that this can be believed by anyone? Really? Since we have no data, since we have no report, and we have to speak for references, I would like to see if, at least, in the second intervention, we can really answer when we invested in energy efficiency in 2017. In the previous Redexga, the contract was 204,8 gigavatios/hour. How much did you save at the 2017 Redexga? How much? What's the data? What percentage of those over 200 gigavats/hours were in green energy? Tell us what percentage. Because the new Redexga contract is true that it means saving, but it's simply because of the issue of setting up a centralized offer — which is very well done — but without requiring any kind of condition, for example, that all energy comes from certified renewable source. On the other day, Mr Tahoces, in the Commission, speaking on this subject and acting as a commercial agent of Natural-Fenosa Gas, said that it was impossible, that these 200 gigavats/hours could not all be asked for renewables because this would totally distort the distribution between production and consumption and that the energy mix of Galicia would be strongly impacted. Do you know, Counselor, what percentage of annual energy consumption in Galicia is these 204 gigavats/hours for them to really dismantle Galicia's energy mix? Then he also said to Mr. Tahoces the other day that it was practically illegal to ask in the contracts that all the energy that hires Galician Union was of renewable origin. He argued — defending the oligopolie companies again, of course — with the contests that the councils governed by forces of our space — specifically in Valencia, Barcelona and Madrid — could not be said to be, that the energy could not be demanded to be renewable. Well, you'll know from yesterday's judgment, right, where the Public Procurement Court has certified that under technical conditions an administration may request a service or supply in the conditions it considers appropriate. And in fact it completely validates the competitions that develop in these three cities, which will be supplied 100 percent with renewable energy. Here neither 0% nor 5% nor 10%. That's the bet for the green energies this government makes. Because, of course, taking into account the fact that consumption — even the advance myself — which means Redexga in relation to the complete mix of energy consumption in Galicia is absolutely priceless, this would really make the companies that bet on the production of renewable energy have a much greater incentive. And then they also talk in the Redexga that, to save more money, it brings together all the procurement; in particular, 50 million euros in a single package. This is against any policy of opening up many operators and making competition stronger. In all the contracts being made in the municipalities I mentioned, at least in similar contracts, four packages are made. And this allows many more marketers to enter these offers and contracts. But it's because Junta goes further and not only says it has to be in a single package, but it says that marketers who want to enter the Redexga contracts must have billed more in the previous year than the full contract implies, that is, more than 50 million euros. Do you know how many companies marketing with strong deployment in Galicia can offer? You know that. Just one, Natural Fenosa Gas. Do you know who was in charge of the contract? Obviously, Natural-Fenosa Gas. Because yes, obviously they were also able to offer Iberdrola, Endesa... yes, yes, I know, I know. But surprisingly he offered Natural-Fenosa Gas and took the Natural-Fenosa Gas contract. Why? Because other independent traders were not allowed to opt for these contracts and, in addition, marketers who would guarantee that 100 percent of energy would come from renewable sources. Did you guarantee Natural-Fenosa Gas? I'm sure not. Well, this is the reality, this is the data. I can't talk much more about the plan, because we don't know it. If one day comes to our hands with the full plan, that justifies these 12,000 jobs, that justifies these 3,000 million euros, from which the 3,000 million dollars come out, that actually justifies that there is a bet for renewable energy, then we can have a serious debate, as my partner, Mr. Lago, had previously claimed, and do not attend, in addition to the second and second rounds of the press; that I really think we already read them with profusion on the front pages of the newspapers that you do enough to get at the foot of the letter what they say. And not only that, but so that, as I said before, they come in with absolute emotion by tripled even the figures you propose. Counsellor, answer some of the questions I have asked you and explain to us, above all, why, as one of the fundamental points of the Energy Policy of the Galician Union, the Redexga project does not require a hundred percent renewable, and why there is no possibility of a great competition, as it might have been possible for independent marketers to enter. Because, by putting it all together in a package and demanding that the previous year they had to bill more than 50 million euros, they totally prevent them from opting for these contracts. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u75	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Before we give the floor to the representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa, we greet the students of the 2nd ESO of the Plurilingual Stone Institute of the Eagle, of the Port Bridge, Camarinas. Welcome to Parliament, they and their teachers. Now if you have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u76	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Counsellor, firstly, we thank you for your presence at the plenary session of this Parliament, on your own request, to inform us of Galicia's energy guidelines for the coming years. It is known to all that efficiency and energy savings should be considered as priority targets for the public administration, by contributing to a double objective: that of financial sustainability in the public sector, by reducing the energy bill, and that of contributing to the commitment to the environment, as they reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. Mr. Conde has made it clear here today that they are priority objectives for his advice and for the government he represents, targets that, as he has just exposed, will contribute to improving the quality of life of the Greeks, achieving sustainable economic growth and contributing to the fight against climate change. I'd like to put on the table the balance of the fact in the energy field in our community in the last nine years. Galicia has considered its ability to transform energy. For us, this is a bet and never a prejudice, as some of the opposition representatives want to convey. In Galicia the energy sector — as you have said — represents 4.3 % of gross domestic product. Our community transforms 10.5% of primary energy in Spain, exports 37% of energy that transforms and is located in the second place in electricity production through renewables, increasing power over these nine years into nearly 800 megawatts, both renewables for electricity generation and renewables for thermal uses. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a release of renewables made with responsibility and rigour. Our community has managed to reduce consumption by 3%, which leads us to believe that Greek society is assuming the importance of energy saving, an increasingly internalized change of culture. All the facts, ladies and gentlemen, and what you are about to do is what the Counsellor has just put forward here today, which will allow Galicia to meet the targets set by the European Union for 2020: a final renewable energy consumption of 20% — which already exceeds Galicia, which is already at 38%, but will continue to increase to 45% — and an energy consumption and reduction of CO2 emissions with a 20% decrease, targets in which Galicia is close to and which, with the lines outlined here today by Mr. Conde, will surely reach without difficulties. Therefore, Counselor, I would like to congratulate you on your success to this day. Of course, it is the result of a joint effort by the Government, of the private company's bet; and, of course, of the effort of all the Greek citizens. Of course, from this group we continue to promote the sector, which will, of course, provide these guidelines to a very important sector in our community, both economically and environmentally. We need to highlight three objectives that you reported here today. First of all, the increase in energy production from renewable sources, a bet on renewable energies which, as you indicated, will assume more than 1,200 megawatts in both the increase in electricity and the increase in thermal power, which will have more than (...) million euros of investment, which has undoubtedly been facilitated and will be facilitated by the entry into force of the Business Implementation Act, which will allow the launch of 21 new wind farms that will also generate 7,000 jobs in their construction. [[Intelligible.]] According to the objective, the decrease in energy consumption and greater efficiency to improve the competitiveness of our industry and family income, a decrease in energy consumption by 4% and with an annual savings of 150 million euros, which will be achieved by giving continuity to savings plans initiated since 2014 in the Public Administration — especially with the energy centralisation network Redexga — and which will be complemented by the continuity of aid for other administrations, such as the municipalities — with pioneering initiatives such as those in the Ponte neighbourhood in my city of Ourense, which will certainly export to other municipalities. And thirdly, a firm bet on sustainable mobility, facilitating the renovation of the mobile park and the deployment of the electric vehicle, in addition to achieving the introduction of natural gas in maritime and heavy transport. All this, ladies and gentlemen, without forgetting that it is key to improving the coverage and assurance of the quality and safety of energy supply. So, as the advisor here has well said today, we will continue the introduction of natural gas and the improvement of connections with the rest of Spain, which, as you will know, are key to a serious and responsible energy transition. Another important sector is that of hydrocarbons, which has also brought us forward the steps that are being taken in administrative simplification to increase competition and can thus influence prices. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is fair to highlight here today the bet of this Government and its advice on leading the advances in energy. Your speeches, gentlemen of the opposition, are on the usual line, they're not surprised. They question data, they talk about what you're interested in at the moment. But they don't address the particular issue that the Counsellor brings here today. That's why to me, ladies and gentlemen, it's up to me to disassemble his fallacy. Look, Mrs. Presas, I'm glad that I can now debate with you here and not as in the previous law, which, well, has been rallied here directly, has spoken with no rigor and no seriousness. I'm really glad to discuss this meeting with you. Look, Galicia is already at the vanguard of the energy transition. Galicia is already at the vanguard, Your Honor, and I should meet him. Look, if they want to talk about the past, I have to talk about the past. Because here Mr. Losada took out the wind competition. And then, of course, it's up to me to remember too; for, of course, it's obliged to remember. Look, at the end of 2008 there was a wind competition that didn't offer guarantees, none! And we don't say that. No, no, Mr. Emilio Pérez Touriño, his former president, said in his book The future is possible. Moreover, he said that at the end of the process, in the third quarter of 2008, he had practically taken — at least on two occasions — the decision to cease the Industry Adviser. His performance was unacceptable and a great deal of disloyalty. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, if that contest were to come forward, there would be no euro in the public archives, no. Because you wanted the Union to be a partner of the wind companies and, therefore, today you have the obligation to participate in the leverage needed for the construction of these projects. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this government has brought forward an wind competition based on rigor, competition and enforcement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Something that bothers you, that we comply with the law, gentlemen. Look, it's allowed, through industrial plans, to generate more than EUR 1 billion of investment in Galicia, to create more than 2,000 jobs and, besides, with the wind cannon that bothers you so much, to raise 180 million of euros. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's up to me to talk about renewables, too, because Mr. Losada questioned self-consumption. Well, I've already commented on it in the past law, but I have to remind him again. Neither we nor the rest of Spain can keep paying the premiums that Mr. Zapatero and you fixed for renewable energies, when they were ten times more expensive than today. I remind you that they have signed more than 3,000 million euros in premiums for twenty-five years at the cost of the bill of light. Because yes, ladies, the premiums are paid on the bill of light, on the beaches, gentlemen, yes! These premiums, in Mr. Sebastian's words, which also named him — it is you who are obliged to me — said at that time: "I am actually a transfer of income to landowners and financials who have spread solar gardens throughout Spain." That's what your minister said, Mr. Losada. You should be careful. Look, the difference between those who say they're defending people and those who we're really working on is this. We plan a development of renewables with seriousness, Your Honor. And of course, the tariff deficit in Mr Aznar's government began, with the law of 1997, of course. But do you want to show the plot again? I'll show you again, of course! Because at that time it was 1,500 million euros what there was. But today there are 30,000! Your Honor, this is an example of bad planning and we don't share that bad planning. [[Murmurs.]] No, Your Honor, we, unfortunately, will have to be paying this debt that you left on our electric bill. And about the coal plants, too, I'm glad you ask us, ask the counsellor, why do you see what you think? Because they sent a report to a council of advisers saying that the power stations have to be closed before 2025, and they want to support the mining sector. Explain it, because we don't understand it. But, well, that's the opinion of your experts. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm left alone, to finish by now, to congratulate the Counsellor for exposing here today guidelines that will certainly yield to the benefit of all the Greeks. And for me nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Replica from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thanks to your contributions in this presentation of the 2018-2020 Energy Guidelines, which are an effort on the part of the Planning Government and, above all, the effort to develop a new sustainable energy model based primarily on renewable and motivated energies, too — as it could not be otherwise — by revitalizing the renewable energies themselves after the three thrusts of renewables that the Government has made available to the sector and which will allow a revitalization of renewable energies in Spain, which logically Galicia has the aspiration to lead. And for that reason, logically, these 2018-2020 Energy Guidelines acquire a special protagonist. I regret, ladies and gentlemen, that in their interventions they had not transferred any kind of recognition to that Galicia is giving concrete answers in the development of this energy model. They know Galicia stands out for its ability to transform energy. In fact, 10.5% of Spain's primary energy is transferred to Galicia. We are the second producer of electricity through renewables and we have a sector that accounts for 4.3 % of the German gross domestic product. And indeed, Mr. Losada, we're making a bet on the Energy Guidelines and we're also making a bet on the Strategy of Climate Change and Energy 2050, two distinct but complementary strategies. Logically, the Economic Council assumes the powers in energy matters, from there the presentation of these Energy Guidelines 2018-2020, and logically the Environment Council is developing the Strategy for Climate Change and Energy, in collaboration with the Economic Council itself. But I don't think we can mix the two strategies, because they're different but complementary at the same time. In any case, the Government is developing the energy model which revolves around these guidelines and which aims to develop a system oriented towards a lower carbon economy. And you want to do it, ladies and gentlemen, with a model that we bring to this House to be able to contrast it with the political groups and, therefore, to be able to come up with ideas and logically debate on planning. That's why we've been asking them, from the Government, that we can diversify our primary energies in the search for an ever-increasing, logically, presence of indigenous energies, enhancing the culture of savings and energy efficiency — which I think should be in the political debate — and also, logically, an improvement in the quality of electricity supply. And that's where we thought not only that the Public Service could be a pioneer but also that we could boost R & D+i and sustainable mobility. I believe that in this context we have to debate a concrete proposal that I am moving here, and I hope that at least in the replica we can realize aspects of it. Because I bring them here a concrete planning with concrete data, concrete bets and concrete figures. And, therefore, I think that about this realization is about what we have to do with the debate. I was posted on the 2009-2017 balance sheet. Indeed, there have been investments over these nine years of 2,748 million euros, which focused mainly on the development of the electricity distribution network, with an investment of 1,231 million euros; also on the commitment by renewables, both in the emissions of electricity and heat and cold, with an investment of 746 million euros; and with investments of 241 million euros, among others, in the issue of energy saving and efficiency. And, Mr. Losada, power has actually increased in 783 megawatts during this period, both in renewables for generation and in renewables for thermal uses. In the generation output, the wind power increased by 212 megawatts; the hydraulics by 280 megawatts; and the photovoltaics by 17 megawatts. And in the renewables for thermal uses, the increase in power was 274 megawatts; of which 244 megawatts were in the iodine of biomass — with the installation of 5.180 boilers — and also in the development of 30 megawatts in the iodine of geothermal and aerothermia. So a balance which we believe to be positive in an adverse economic context but which has allowed the Government to continue to develop that cool energy mix bet but also, in particular, by renewable energies. And, therefore, the Government — and I think that we have to focus the debate on it — understands that the future of Galicia is written in renewables and that therefore the wager for renewables must be a country bet that the Government wants to share with all political groups. But let me think about the debate, because, in fact, the electrical system is a complex system where there are different parts that must fit in to give results and to conquer targets. And the system, ladies and gentlemen — and I would like to be able to contrast it with you in the subsequent debate — this electrical system must guarantee both sustainability and the quality of supply. For that, we need the energy mix. And these energy guidelines are trying to give that answer by primacy over renewable energies. That's why I still find it surprising that the BNG continues to maintain its defense of the Greek electric tariff. And I'm surprised because, in fact, you know the BNG that Galicia would be harmed by this proposal. Because they hide in their exhibition that Galicia currently enters 1,150 million euros of the power and pay regulators, gentlemen, 800 million euros per fee. And the government doesn't say so, the experts who came to this House last year. Therefore, the BNG insists on a chimera that would cost the Greeks 350 million euros more a year to maintain the electric service we receive. Finally, if we are talking about the energy mix and we are talking about sustainability and ensuring the quality of supply, we have to speak with realism and we have to put in order all the ideas so that, in fact, that puzzle where we have to conquer the sustainability and the guarantee of supply is and responds to realistic criteria. I was also told by BNG about the territorial supplement. Your Honor, you know that the Galician Union has resorted to the order that affects consumers with autonomous taxes on the electricity sector. Therefore, the Galician Union is acting on the judicial route to defend the interests of the Greeks, and it knows that we are speaking logically of an impact only of a year, in 2013. You tell me about a political path. Your Honor, we are, logically, defending the interests where we have to defend them, which is with arguments. Because Galicia understands that, indeed, the environmental taxes applied do not at any time record the activities or installations intended for electricity supply, and you know that these taxes are in no case, Your Honor — and I think that there is a need to speak precisely — would be intended for electricians, but would be intended for the system. If we have to develop a debate, Your Honor, we have to do so, indeed, about the reality of the facts and the knowledge of the electrical system itself, because otherwise we would be misdirecting the debate. In any case, I hope that all political groups, including the BNG, will join the Galician Union in effectively defending the rights of the Greeks. Because we understand that, in fact, there are legal arguments that show that, in fact, these environmental taxes have to be geared towards those who pollute and therefore must in no way record — and do not actually record — the activities or installations intended for electricity supply. Tell me Mr. Losada of the wind system and tell me about the system's sustainability. Of course, I have to remind Mr. Losada that it was the Socialist Party which multiplied by 15 the tariff deficit accumulated by the electrical system, I have to remember, and that, therefore, that deficit has increased from EUR 2 billion to EUR 31 billion and has put the whole system in a limited position. And you know, logically, that in that context the Government of the People's Party had to act and have to face a profound electrical reform. So, if you tell me that since 2010, there have been difficulties in the market and difficulties in promoting companies themselves to develop the different projects in the wind sector, because I have to tell you that yes, which is a reality. But it's precisely a reality motivated by why you simply put our country's entire energy policy at risk by generating an inescapable deficit and, therefore, you had to have a response in terms of country and therefore deal with that situation. In fact, at present, with the development of renewables, Galicia has an opportunity to achieve the 4,000 megawatts in operation by 2020. And what I would like to know is whether you support or not support the Business Implementation Act, which is allowing Galicia to have this opportunity. Because you know that if the Business Implementation Act was not approved, so you can speed up the processes of the different wind projects, in no case could these promoters put into operation in December 2019 the projects that are currently being processed. And so once again I bring to this House the question of whether all political parties actually have a real bet on the development of renewable energies and, therefore, whether there is explicit support or not from the different parliamentary groups to this Enterprise Implementation Act. We're actually still developing the biomass strategy and we're going to increase both electrical and thermal production in 275 megawatts. And, logically, Galicia continues to bet on this indigenous resource that has allowed it, since the approval of the strategy in 2014, to install 4,000 boilers and, therefore, to continue to bet — as it said — on renewable energies. And not only by biomass, but also, in this case, by geothermals, to which you have made no reference. But he understands the Government that Galicia has enormous potential in geothermal matter. At present we have 15.5% of all Spanish installations installed and therefore with 30 megawatts, we have the capacity to continue to lead the development of a renewable resource of enormous interest to our country. They know that Galicia is betting on an energy transition through a coherent and balanced mix of different forms of production and that Galicia is currently supporting and betting so that the investments can be made so that the coal plants, both the bridges and the Meirama ones, can adapt to the industrial emission guidelines and, therefore, the industrial emissions directive, which marks our obligation to make these investments to adapt our facilities. And, logically, we will continue to defend that bet and, therefore, that all the necessary reforms can be implemented that this directive requires so that we can meet Kyoto's requirements. In this context, speaking of the situation and helping consumers to cope with the payment of the electricity bill, I remind them that Galicia was a pioneer in support of the most vulnerable consumers. I have to remind you in this House. When no one supported this kind of policy, the Galician board launched the electric ticket and enabled more than 13,000 families to support and support over the past four years. And you should talk here about the fact that the Government of Spain actually makes a bet to continue to complement the actions and therefore there are protection mechanisms with income criteria. That is why I think it is good to also bring to this House the debate that brings the new social bond and the opportunity for the social bond to actually consider supply for the most vulnerable consumers essential and uninterruptible and therefore that the marketers also notify the Autonomous Administration before starting any cut in supply. I regret that the opposition had not at its time supported the Greek Law 7/2017. Because by that law, ladies and gentlemen, that law on energy efficiency and the guarantee of access to electricity supply, families at risk of social exclusion know that they have ensured the service of electricity supply and the freeness of minimum consumption. Therefore, this Government, in collaboration with the Government of Spain, will continue to support families who need it most to meet the needs of electricity supply. [[Applause]] And finally, Mr. Casal brings this debate to Redexga. I especially appreciate it. I appreciate it, but I also have to put Redexga on the table that Redexga is not a bet solely on electricity supply, it also means a bet on natural gas and a bet on C gas oil, and you know that this competitive competitive recruitment system is an absolutely pioneering project that is synonymous with energy efficiency. And, indeed, the economic savings achieved so far amount to 23 million euros, and in 2022 it will be close to 22 million euros additional. I am Mr Casal, about EUR 4.5 million a year at this time, which enables Redexga to save, from the point of view of energy supply, not only by supporting the autonomous administration but also by incorporating other centres, such as the accession of the German universities themselves and all their energy consumption centres. We're going to follow, and right now if I can move you that the Inega is gathering all the data to incorporate new contracts, in this case of biomass and propane, so that this platform will allow you to continue to generate savings to public administrations and, therefore, that on that horizon of 2022, after ten years, we can save 45 million euros in the consumption of the different energies. It's a clear bet that actually means making a bet for the energy mix. Logically, it also means incorporating not only the consumption of electricity, but also, as I told you, at this time, the contract on natural gas and the contract on C diesel, and, as I say, we will also incorporate propane and biomass. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your speeches. I hope that in the replica shift we can face this energy model, I insist, about a concrete bet by the Galician Union focused on renewable energies but also logically with a bet by an energy mix that allows us sustainability and also allows us to guarantee supply. Because in these two principles, we have to solve the government's ability to transfer quality to its citizens in supply, the best cost of energy, and also, from a business point of view, greater competitiveness of our industrial fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u79	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u80	Well, I didn't speak on my first shift of the Greek electric fare. But I am glad, Mr. Conde, that you join in this debate, that for the Galician Nationalist Block it is essential. I did speak of energy as an instrument to transform not only an environmental model, but also a social model. And there are many more ways to do it through energy, not only with the Greek electric tariff -- although, of course, it's a fundamental proposal. I suppose it was too bad not to come to the previous debate, but I will certainly mention some of the issues to the thread of this. First, they should clarify themselves, because the People's Party lives in a permanent schizophrenia with the question of the Greek electric tariff. Unify arguments with the parliamentary group, because in a turn it would be cruel for Galicia, superjudicial, but in another saying it's unusual. If it's unusual, because it's because some kind of benefit comes to our country, I imagine. [[Applause]] If you're surprised that you're left with only one part of our proposal, because you'll know that it also included something on the question of wind cannon. And let me say that, in the matter of territorial supplements, it allows me to correct it. Because it will have to be the People's Party who joins the BNG, which has been putting proposals not only on the table of this Parliament, but also on its day in the negotiation of the 2013 Electric Sector Act, warning that this would happen. And you've always eluded to stand on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks to avoid that billing up to the point where they resorted to an order, indeed, late, ill and backward. But what they did not resort to in their day — it will not deny me — was the decree, and it was a great mistake that the Greek Community had not resorted to that decree in its day. In any case, we insist that in this matter we must strongly urge the Spanish State that, if there is anything to pay for the electricians, he will have to do it and not our community, that we do not admit any more interference in our fiscal sovereignty. Because -- I insist -- we can disagree about the lines that you choose, but we understand that we must have the right to mark them. I did want to comment on some other matter very briefly. It's rather ironic that you come here to assume the issue of fighting poverty. We don't have time to go deep in this issue, but we do have time for that 2018 ticket, which was another one of the issues raised in the debate at first thing in the morning. Then, I insist once again that, for us, the alternative is not that social bond, which has many shortcomings — among them, that any Member of this House with a large family would automatically have the right to it, something which, logically, under income criteria does not make any sense. In any case, they are not sufficiently profound tools to address the important social problem in our country. I'm not going to insist anymore on the data from the Greeks and the Greeks who don't pay the electricity bill at the end of the month. But for the first time you've talked about gas and the progress in expanding gas within our country, I'm going to set an example. We have brought to this House debates on specific cases, such as Cambre or Caranza, neighborhoods in Ferrol or neighborhoods in Cambre, where the problem of neighbors and neighbors was precisely that, in that change, for example, from propane to gas, they asked that access to that propane or butane could still be allowed precisely for the price, because it is cheaper, because they have such an economic situation that not all Greeks and Greeks can afford to pay the minimum that gas installation costs per month. That's a very serious thing. It's very good that we want to think about replacing gas with certain energies, but it would be much better if we thought about equipping our Greeks and Greeks with the economic capacity to assume that. By introducing a question, you spoke of a concrete plan, a concrete proposal, a concrete one. It almost makes me laugh even though the matter is serious. I promise you that we will print, read and study the Journal of Sessions, the figures you gave us, but of course we think there would be other mechanisms if you really wanted to move forward with us on this matter. And we asked him specific questions that you didn't answer. I insist on an idea: to move forward in energy sovereignty, in self-production, is to advance in that alternative social and environmental model. That's why there's a lot of absences you've brought here today. He didn't say anything about decriminalizing self-consumption, about moving forward also about non-industrial biomass, which is fundamental to waste management and mountain management. And there are side debates — but if we speak in terms of CO2 reduction and impact reduction, we have to put on the table -- like the expiration of the Sogama model or how, I insist, to know whether the German Government is going to stand before the state government if it excludes us from the aid to the thermal power stations. I also didn't want to stop mentioning the absolute self-comprehensibility and self-conformity they have in the matter of wind. You were talking and assuming that 38% of the energy in final consumption was of renewable origin. But, look, in 2009 the aim of the European guidelines was already achieved. What you should be thinking about is moving forward from there, and we see little ambition and little sense of ridicule. In this sense, we have to say that the power installed in the wind has also suffered a significant paron since 2010. It is true that in 2017 Galicia was where most of the four leading communities grew, the wind power. But it's not less true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u82	...which has grown less since 2018, because you, with your sectarianism, have condemned us to paralysis. What we think is that there's no serious planning in this. And the proof is that there is no and there is no debate in this Parliament about a specific wind plan, which is still an absence. And if they took seriously the wind potential and the potential of public participation in all energy sectors, we could of course find more tools to design this energy model as well as to have an environmental and social return that today is not having in any of the sectors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, this is the graph of the wind power installed in Galicia since the year 2000, that is, with the Government of Fraga, with the Government of Mr. Touriño and with the Government of Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. I think the stagnation is obvious. My graphic skill is not too high, but I think you can see that stagnation perfectly. The data you gave, by the way, do not match the Ministry's data. I took them from the Ministry, especially because the IGE doesn't keep them up to date. So, perhaps, it was good that the IGE had updated its data and so would make statistical nationalism and use the IGE data. But since they're not -- I insist -- I caught them from the Ministry. I was moved to thank you for your contributions. The truth is they're metaphysical contributions. It's the cave of Plato projected, because I'm on nothing. We contribute, as far as possible, to nothing. It seems there was a voicer or voicer who had some privileged information, which is very good. Well, it's part of the strategy. You say we don't speak anything and we give no relevance to the issue of saving and energy efficiency. I recognize the importance of energy saving and energy efficiency in what is the growth model change and in the fight against climate change — I, the socialists and, except for the most cavernical right of the planet, the whole world. But we have to see the budgets. First we have to look at the budgets. And in the budgets the downturn in program 733A, which I understand is where this question is -- it's probably somewhere else, but finally, as I read them, it's there -- it was about 30% between 2009 and 2018. It's true that with important changes. Yes, the execution is always below 50%. So we are not the ones who do not stress the importance of actions in this area. It's you with your budget and with your budget management, further — I know — that trendually, when multi-annuality tends to infinity, the execution had reached a hundred percent. But for now, it's under 50%. Then you also talk about these 700 megawatts of renewable energy in eight years. All right, 90 megawatts/year. I recommend -- I know you don't have time to do it -- what Mr. Feijóo said, when he was in opposition, with the growths. I remember those of the wind, because they were about — I have the data here — 220 years of average. They were exactly, in the four years, 910 megawatts; so, about 220. And it seemed like we were losing the windshield train. I mean, here we lost the windshield train and here we obviously got it. The problem is, the train stopped. The train stopped, it's stopped, and you keep talking about wind, talking about millions of euros, jobs, mobilization, etc. So I think there's self-comprehensibility. The Greek wind sector is paralysed, and with respect to the position of leadership in terms of energy production and, which is so important or so, in terms of multiplier effects on industrial and technological sectors, we lose our position of advantage in a radical way, it likes you or not, whether you recognize it or not. And then they talk about the year 2010, the challenges of the promoters. Indeed, there was an accumulated tariff deficit. I say it every time I get out here, and, if you want, I pray a rosary too, but I say it every time I get out here. There was a high tariff deficit. The dry brake on the renewables only served to stop the technological development of the sector, to get the weaker economic agents out of the market and to strengthen the oligopolie, and, if not, tell me something else, tell me something else, Counsellor. Because the fact is that the participation of Iberdrola, Enel and Natural Gas in the wind grew spectacularly, because they were actually the ones who were able to resist that ax. And by the way, do you know the only one who hasn't moved down in all this procedure? The results accounts of the three companies, which continued to grow systematically, Counselor. It doesn't contain stories here. [[Applause]] I know that Miguel Sebastian did not know how many things. I had an advantage: I did it in Madrid and not in Panama, which is always an advantage, of course, because of Hispanic nationalism. I mean, I did them here and I didn't do them in Panama, and when I went to the Dominican Republic, I paid for their hotels. But in any case, I insist, the problems of the tariff deficit and the levy on renewables had an objective, which was perfectly financially assumed by the Spanish public domain: it was done to get the small competitors out of the market. Dino everyone except Unesa. Of course, Unesa won't say. But, in fact, did they leave the market or didn't they leave the market, Counselor, did they leave or didn't they? No, they're in the market, right? Yeah, yeah, great! Well, yes, this is a matter of faith. Let's go back to the rosary before, but... Territorial Supplements. Of course we support Galician Union. By the way, when we said the political dimension that was printing the government of what you're part of the environmental taxes related to energy production, they were angry. And now it's very difficult in the resource to explain that they're environmental taxes when anyone distributes them, or distributes them, etc., was responsible for the local administration of Galician board and not the Environmental Council. Don't look at me with that face, which looks like you don't know what I'm talking about, and I'm sure you do. So it's not a problem of opposition support. It's a problem that environmental taxes have been reversed to be used as a political weapon and now, of course, it's turned against you. The truth is, facial expression surprises me, the face of surprise. Hey, is it or is it not true that in the budgets it means that the collection will only half...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u86	...for environmental executions? It appears in the memory of the budget. Abel Losada didn't make it up. So, I don't know why he's making that face of surprise. And then, in relation to the electric ticket, look, they systematically voted against until 2014, since 2010, the four toughest years of the crisis. In this Parliament, every time the opposition brought about an issue of energy poverty, the People's Party voted against. It is true that, in a moment, the situation was so dramatic that they undoubtedly ended up riding that car. And, Counselor, it doesn't give me time, but I think it would be very good that -- it's a tip of good faith -- every time you come here to tell us a plan of these, spontaneous and miraculous, please take a look at your Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u87	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u88	Especially on page 342 of the Annex (...). [[Intelligible.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u89	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Given that you haven't answered any of the questions I asked you — if you weren't at the power point in the press round — I'll keep asking you questions. What do you think the Government of Galicia's Board of False Cogeneration Plants like the one that projects Ence in its Pontevedra factory, which will be nothing but a thermal power plant to burn eucalyptus? That's right, very well justified by Ence. In fact, Ence made statements, a press round, in which she said that her new biomass plant in Pontevedra was totally justifiable "with the unstoppable extension of the eucalyptus in Galicia." As the extension of the eucalyptus in Galicia does not stop growing—and it will not stop, it seems to be, with the new forest plan of the Galician Union—for there is nothing left that burns it. They can't make any more money. In fact, He's now almost entering more money by selling electricity than doing his job, which is making paper money. Something you'll need to see about the regulation of this kind of facility. Do you really think the biomass plant that's projected in Curtis is renewable? According to our criteria, renewable biomass is to take advantage of forest discards to generate energy. But it takes almost 100,000 hectares of eucalyptus plantations to be able to function at full power, as it would with this Curtis plant, the truth doesn't seem very sustainable. Again, we understand Galicia's new forest project. We didn't have enough eucalyptus to make paper pulp, which we're going to plant now to burn them in thermal power stations, no cogeneration. Because everyone knows what cogeneration is, and you know it very well. Cogeneration is to take advantage of the heat needed for other activities of the factories to produce electricity. It doesn't need any more heat for your production process. The only thing that's going on is a thermal power plant to burn eucalyptus. Then the counselor said that we didn't mention the tides, the geothermals, the aerothermics... but what are we going to say, if we don't have any solvent data on what is the strategy? On what document can we base ourselves on making a critique or a contribution? We came here to hear this press round. You also mentioned the counselor... we thought we'd leave it for another initiative but it's a very worrying issue, and the response on the networks to this situation is enormous, and it's the whipping we're going to receive all the Greeks and Greeks: 40 million euros in our next light receipts!, with the charge to pay the companies that pollute and have a strong environmental impact in Galicia. The Galician Union is profiled, but the reality is that all this is due to a claim by the electricians, the same ones that receive the contracts and concessions of the Galician Union, which the Supreme imposes in compliance with a law. You'll know who passed that law, because it seems to have emerged, that it was the Supreme who invented it. Well, it's a party that should sound a lot to you, the People's Party. The People's Party has passed that law, so the Supreme now says that the Greeks will have to pay the electricity companies 40 million euros in our receipts. Mrs Novoa has all her interventions in this falsity of the tariff deficit. A totally illegitimate debt, calculated only on the data of oligopolie companies, which on the other hand completely refuse to submit to public audits of these theoretical costs. It's 30 billion euros! I mean, there's no pension money, there's no money to increase unemployment subsidies, there's no money for a lot of things, there's no money to make AP-9 public, but there's 30 billion euros to give them to the electricians. Besides, as you know, if you come — as you will come — a decent government will make you return that money, what have you done? They were entitled to transfer them to American investment funds so that the state would then have to claim him to Washington and he couldn't claim him to them. And why do I say it's an invention? Because it's a little weird, isn't it? Maybe the economists could enlighten me, because I'm not an economist. One company says the government will force me to sell under the cost price. Okay. So what would that imply? It would mean they have losses, wouldn't it? For in the ten years that the tariff deficit was calculated, the oligopolie electricity companies won 100 billion euros. How can you sell under the cost and earn 100 billion euros? It's a bit strange and surprising, but perhaps Mr. Lago, Mr. Losada and some other economist of the People's Party can explain it, because to me, the truth, my lack of economic theories doesn't lead me to be able to justify this. In short, Mr. Counsellor, an Energy Plan of the Galician Board that is actually the business plan of Natural Gas, of Iberdrola, of Ence, and the board is limited to letting it do, and, yes, assuming the marketing, as you came here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u91	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Counselor, no matter what you or I say here, the opposition gentlemen will always deny good data, good planning or good management. Mrs. Presas, you haven't been in the previous debate, but you were your boss, Mrs. Pontón, and I've been advising you too. Then he didn't hear well what I told him. The Greek fare is a bad business, it's unusual and it's a bad business. No, I said: 300 million euros, Your Honor! Yeah, yeah, it's a bad business. Just like I do. You guys want us to do bad business for Galicia, but you don't. Luckily, the Government of Unity is a responsible government and does not. Mr. Losada, what is your proposal to reduce or contain the tariff deficit? Continue to power renewable energy at an extremely expensive time? I don't know what your proposal is, really. The truth is it's surprising. Look, the current government has decided to subsulate renewable energies without premiums so as not to continue accumulating the tariff deficit that you have grown. They can assume data, renewable data, renewables installation. But they can also assume tariff deficit data, of course, the most massive in history! That's what they can pretend to be. Mr. Casal, you're actually against any industrial project you want to implement here. Any industrial project in the wind sector, for example. We are continually seeing the 6th Commission as they do. Do you want no industry to be installed here? Make it clear! As for friends, oligopolie, that we're next to the business friends... we're not. Participation: "He signed half of En Marea's related contracts. Municipal contracts related to the Marea exceed EUR 330,000. The City Council of Madrid triples the contracts to the companies in which a promoter of Now Madrid participates." Hey, how long have they been ruling? Please! Don't mention that we're next to the business friends, please! They're not legitimized to set an example of anything. [[Applause]] You, gentlemen of the opposition, all together, because before they were a set, they were the ones that... yes, yes, they were a set... a mix... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, you — as we have already said and Mr Counsellor said — were the ones who were in favour of multiplying the tariff deficit by 15; it was the ones who were in favour of condoning EUR 3,000 million to the electricians, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Losada, 3,000 million for not claiming too much for the cost of transition to competition! And I also remember -- I said it before, but I'm just saying it again because this data has to be said continuously -- that nine files have been opened for four years for a value of 97,000 euros. Hey! We, 2,400 for a value of almost 24 million. And as Mr. Casal well remembered here, who spoke almost all of his Redexga intervention because the other day he didn't get time in Commission 6th, we're going to be the ones who're going to reduce the energy bill of the Administration and we're going to save 45 million euros up to 2022. Which you will understand that it is not us who are next to the big power companies because we are shortening the bill, Mr. Casal. It's as simple as that! Look, Counselor, I would like to thank you again for your presence. To stress that, as you well said, Galicia has gone from saying to fact; that the balance over these nine years places our community at the top of renewable energy in Spain. But, as you have explained, we do not feel satisfied and we want to continue on this path, in the course of fulfilling the objectives marked by the European Union in terms of energy saving and efficiency. ambitious targets, of implantation of a strong energy model, centered on renewable energy. Targets of impulse for a change in patterns of consumption of administrations, households and businesses, and that is part of our daily life. He presented guidelines that will, of course, serve as a guide for driving Galicia towards a sustainable energy model; an energy model that will undoubtedly be an opportunity, so that energy transition will help create jobs and boost the economic activity of our community. Ladies and gentlemen, support for renewable energy, which is already known to all, such as the wind sector, which is very tight in Galicia and with important ongoing projects that will generate jobs in the immediate future in our community. I support — as it could not be otherwise — innovation in energy efficiency, as you told us here this morning, with the deployment of sectors such as biomass, biogas or biofuels, making our Industry 4.0 internalize the energy saving culture to be more competitive. May the energy guidelines that you have presented here today, Counsellor, achieve a public-private investment of more than 3,000 million and that there is forecast to create 12,000 jobs, all of which over the next three years; that the energy sector in our community represents 4.3 % of the gross domestic product; that Galicia is the second renewable energy power, is thanks to the effort of the entire citizenry, of the private company, but also of its Government, Counsellor. It's fair to acknowledge it, and it's not about advertising and propaganda, opposition gentlemen, but about what is done, about facts, of first doing and then telling what has been done. For my part, that's all. I reiterate my gratitude, Counselor, and of all my group, for the intervention this morning. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Close to attendance, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, again I would like to thank you for your speeches, although, logically, we do not agree with some of them. And above all, we do not agree when we have to hear in this House a debate about the support of the people who need it most, and the spokesperson for the BNG says textually that these measures are not sufficiently profound tools. Madam Presas, do you or do you not support that families at risk of social exclusion may have secured the electricity supply service and the free minimum consumption? Do you support it or not support it? Because that is precisely what the law adopted in this Parliament by the majority group, which will allow that, indeed, there is a possibility that families at risk of social exclusion will not only benefit from the new social welfare of the State, which already includes protection mechanisms which the Council of Galicia has established at its time, but now we have the possibility that it can be complemented by the Government of Greece and you have voted otherwise. That, Your Honor, I think you should explain it to the Greeks and to the Greeks. [[Applause]] In any case, it is curious that both the BNG and the Socialist Party speak in this House of the Wind Plan. I say this because, of course, BNG's policy and Bipartite's policy -- because in this they shared strategies -- was just making a division; that was their strategy and it was their policy. But they know that logically this led to the two wind competitions approved by the Bipartite being declared illegal and that it would also have to cancel a third party. That's the reality of their planning, and that's the reality of their vision of the wind sector. Mr. Losada moves that the paron the only thing he did was suppose a paron in technological development over the past few years. I want to move the question to him again: do you or do you not support the Law on Entrepreneurship approved by this Government, which is allowing the development of the wind sector and which, therefore, in Galicia can be put into operation more than 4,000 megawatts by the horizon of 2020? Do you support it or not support it? Because if you don't support it clearly and simply, you're not supporting the development of the wind sector. That's the reality when we talk about a sector that's so important to Galicia. Of course, Mr Losada forgets that, indeed, the energy policy of the Socialist Party of Mr Zapatero has put the energy policy of Spain itself in a limited position. You know that if you hadn't taken the cost of technological development, implementing premiums that were insumable to a country like Spain, we would simply save 10,000 million euros. But most importantly, you know that the premium system that had to cancel President Rajoy's government was costing the system of EUR 10 billion a year; you know that. Do you mean to tell me in the pockets of renewables that were celebrated last year what is the premium that wind promoters receive? I remind you: zero euros, Mr Losada, zero euros. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So I think that, when we talk about the development of the wind sector, we first have to be realistic, and secondly, to meet the needs of the wind sector. At a time of economic recovery, the sector needed regulatory adaptation, precisely to have that development capacity, and you simply wanted to deny that capacity to the sector by voting instead of the Enterprise Implementation Act. I still transfer them if they really consider it appropriate that the sector was at risk for its lack of vision to develop and therefore be able to address the different projects that will allow Galicia to have more than 4,000 megawatts installed in 2020 and that Galicia can therefore regain leadership in the development of renewable energies and, in particular, in the wind sector. They talk to me both Mrs. Presas and Mr. Casal about biomass. They know that biomass can be electric or thermal. Logically, we bet on both developments. And, indeed, Curtis' plant will allow the electrical installation to increase. In particular, energy guidelines plant an increase in the production of electricity and thermal biomass of 235 megawatts. Curtis' project, Mr. Casal, will allow you to develop a 45 megawatt plant. And on that plant you're going to use remnants of cuts that are now left on the mountain; that's the reality. And, therefore, Curtis' plant will allow not only the renewable power generation but also, logically, the development of a project that will also enable the sustainability of our forest sector and, above all, work and contribute in the prevention of forest fires through the collection of those remnants of cuts that now — as I said — remain in the mountains. So, with an investment of 113 million euros and the creation of 550 jobs during the construction of this plant, and 130 jobs, once it's put in place, we believe it's a bet that needs to be developed. Likewise, Mrs. Presas, who bet on thermal biomass, in which we have already developed the installation of 4,000 boilers since 2014, and which will actually allow not only industrial use but also oriented to the thermal use of our citizens, both families and businesses themselves. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in these energy guidelines of Galicia 2018-2020 the Government understands that there is a clear bet for the green economy, that there is a clear bet for the energy transition in order to increase the capacity of our industrial fabric and also to influence the culture of energy saving and efficiency, and that, ultimately, this new energy model has to be more sustainable and has to be more environmentally friendly. And that's why these investments, over the next three years, over 3,000 million euros, we understand that they will actually allow this to bet on a new energy model that ensures an energy mix in the development of different energies to allow Galicia to be more competitive and that it can offer a more competitive cost to both families and businesses. And the most important thing about energy guidelines is that it's actually a wager for renewable energy. And there in the autonomous community, 1,200 megawatts will be installed, both in wind, hydraulic and photovoltaic, as well as in biomass, thermal solar and geothermal. And there, ladies and gentlemen, we have the possibility to develop new wind farms, which are already declared by the Act of Enterprise Implementation as projects of special interest, and we are also going to develop projects, such as that of the Ourense eco-barrio, which will allow the development of energy such as geothermals and will allow, above all, to define a pioneering model of energy development in cities through a clear bet for energy saving and efficiency; actions that, logically, will expand to other sectors, such as the natural gas supply network, also oriented to the greatest competitiveness of industrial fabric and also to the enjoyment by families. In short, the Government redoubles this commitment to renewable energies, renews its commitment to combat climate change, by boosting bio-economics. And we understand that economic growth in Galicia has to be synonymous with the generation of clean energy and it also has to be synonymous with energy efficiency that allows costs to be reduced, to generate skilled employment and to have a positive impact on the environment. Therefore, with these energy guidelines, we are conjugating greater economic activity, greater well-being and greater employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u95	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the full till 6:00, four in the afternoon. Good afternoon. [[The session is suspended at two and six minutes in the afternoon and resumed at four and two minutes in the afternoon.]] [[For an error in recording, the first moments of the plenary session are not collected, in which the President declares the sitting open and presents the first initiative, Mrs. Counsellor of the Rural Middle, as well as the first words of the Rural Middle.]] The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for the Rural Environment, on his own request, to report on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u96	[...] Members were unable to attend, and it seemed to me a good idea to explain to the House the position that we have been defending in all forums, mainly in Madrid, but also in Brussels, where I was in the months of December last year, February and recently in March. Yeah, I know I got away, but... yeah. [[Murmurs.]] [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Tell the president he'll be settling in a little bit. In April last year we had a consensual position with the various autonomous communities before the Ministry, a position which was unanimous at most points and which only remained outside, on the one hand, Aragon and on the other hand, Navarra. This position does not differ much from the rest of Spain's communities and not from those of the countries of southern Europe. Everything, of course, under the coordination of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has the difficult role of seeking allies to ensure that the demands of farmers and farmers prevail with a clear position of government in the face of a real threat we have in the post-2020 negotiation, which is the threat of Brexit and which are the threats of security and emigration policies, threatens that in reality there should be no impact on what is the CAP itself and what is opposed, of course, Galicia. It was an interesting day in which the European Commission participated Carlos Martín Ovilo, who is a specialist in milk, and by the Council of Europe César Cortés, who is a friend of Portuguese; by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Secretary General, Carlos Cabanas, and by the Council of Galicia attended the president of the Union, Alberto Núñez Feijóo. The president announced to us on 10 April that the Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, Hogan, will be visiting Galicia next time, in response to his personal invitation, and then we will again transfer the demands that bring us to the sector, the farmers and the farmers, which we also hear in the territory. This is the first time that the Commissioner approaches Galicia and we have to take into account that we are facing a reform of the CAP which we for the first time do not know what their budget is going to be, and the forecast is that on May 2nd we have a first proposal which will then be negotiated with the rest of the countries. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is a sector whose support comes almost exclusively from the European sphere, the difference in most sectors of the economy, mainly supported by national governments. The common agricultural policy, the CAP, was created in 1962 and comes to be the representation and union of agriculture with society, between Europe and its farmers, with very clear objectives, among which the improvement of agricultural productivity must be emphasized, so that consumers have stable and safe raw material, and at reasonable prices, and a guarantee for farmers in the European Union to have a decent and also reasonable standard of living. The CAP is a common policy for all the Member States of the European Union and cannot fail to be a common policy. It must also be managed and financed at European level with resources from the European Union's budget, and that is clear to me. All Member States share these two objectives, none of which can be achieved without budget, without economic aid. It is obvious that a collective policy for the European Union allows better use of budgetary resources than multiple different national policies, which we oppose. Agriculture depends largely on climate and also on weather conditions, more than other sectors. On the other hand, in agriculture there is an inevitable delay between the moment when consumer demand arises and the time when farmers can satisfy it. These uncertainties justify the important role the public sector plays in ensuring the stability of farmers' incomes, which are at the heart of a stable and safe supply of food for more than five million citizens. Therefore, talking about CAP is about economics, but talking about CAP is also about safe foods and is therefore synonymous with health. The CAP supports farmers in different ways. On the one hand, help the rent. Direct payments support agricultural income and pay farmers for the provision of public goods, which markets normally do not pay, such as the care of our rural population. They're also market measures. The European Commission can take measures to address difficult situations on the market, such as sudden decline in demand, health warnings or price falls, resulting from excessive supply on the market; these two measures, financed solely from EU budgets. In addition, it has another type of measures, and these are rural development, addressed to specific needs and challenges in rural areas, based on multi-annual programming co-financed by Member States. It is therefore necessary to place the CAP budget within a context, and that context is the public expenditure of the European Union, representing only 1% of all public expenditure in the European Union; in 2017 it represented around EUR 61,000 million. The first of the many roles farmers play in the face of society is to produce food. Thanks to the CAP, European citizens enjoy food security and as a society we can be sure that our farmers produce the food we need. But agriculture is not just food. It's also about our countryside, it's also about our rural and its valuable natural resources. Farmers keep rural living and a rural way of life, because many of the jobs in rural areas are indirectly related to agriculture and livestock. They need machinery, they need construction, they need fertilizers, they need animal health care, they need fuel, they need transportation and sale by the kid, and this is generated by the farmer and the farmer. The European Union has about eleven million agricultural holdings and twenty-two million people working in agriculture. Together, agriculture and food create around forty-four million jobs in Europe. In addition, farmers manage the field for the benefit of all of us. They supply goods of public interest, being the most important of all the care and maintenance of our soils, of the landscape, that is, of biodiversity. The market does not pay for these public goods, and in order to pay for that service which society as a whole provides the European Union with income support. On the other hand, agricultural producers may be adversely affected by climate change. The CAP gives them financial assistance so that they can adjust their methods to agricultural systems in order to cope with the effects of this change. Farmers and cattle farmers are the first to understand the need to look after our natural resources, because they ultimately depend on them in their daily lives. In order to avoid the negative side effects of some agricultural practices, the European Union is encouraging them to work sustainably on the territory and in an environmentally sound way. Because farmers must overcome two challenges: on the one hand, to produce food, quality food, and at the same time to protect nature and to safeguard biodiversity, without forgetting how important it is for farmers and livestock, which is to obtain, from their economy, decent incomes. A sustainable agriculture from an environmental point of view, which uses natural resources with caution, is essential to produce food that for our quality of life, now and in the face of the future, we need. The importance for Galicia of the CAP offers no room for doubt. The distribution of CAP payments in the last decade in our Community has exceeded EUR 2.6 billion, reaching some 33,000 beneficiaries per year, which are coming to EUR 190 million annually. As a curiosity, tell them what amounts are distributed from the CAP among farmers and farmers of any municipality, but I'm setting an example as is the case with the Pastoral Authority, duplicate the municipal budget; that is, from municipal budget, the Pastoral Authority has 2.2 million euros and the CAP receive farmers who reside there 4.7 million euros. But it is not the only case of the Pastoral Authority; it is the case of Frades, for example, who has an budget of €2,2181,000 and the CAP receive €2,226,000, a difference of €44,000 plus those received from the CAP our farmers and farmers. We can go to Ourense and talk about Montederramo; it has an budget of €814,000 and the CAP receives €894,000. We can go to Pontevedra and talk about Wheel; its budget is 2.4 million euros and its winners receive 2.1 million euros. Or, if we want to go to larger, larger municipalities, case of Lalín, by setting an example, which has an budget of 14.5 million euros and receives from the CAP its winners 4.3 million euros. With which the importance of the CAP is transcendental towards a future. But it's also true that there are uncertainties, and those uncertainties are that it's the first time you start negotiating the CAP on the table, there's no budget. The singularity of Galicia, with an average density of 91.9 inhabitants per square kilometer, shows the dispersion of our rural population. So those synergies, for good or for bad, must be reflected at the time of the negotiation of the CAP. If we add that in Galicia we have 30,139 individual population entities, the provision of services to rural residents is clearly compromised. And the solution requires multiple support, through direct payments, but also through the second pier of the CAP. And these multiple support is becoming more employment opportunities, equalizing rural and urban incomes, equipping them in rural areas of services that make them attractive to the population — particularly to the youngest population — in total support for family farms, which is a key part of Galicia; societies, cooperativeism. Finally, Galicia supports an active farmer. The diversification of economic activity, the creation of new companies and support in other forms of job creation, and in particular through micro-enterprises and small non-agricultural enterprises, are all essential elements of rural development that tend to seek in the generation of wealth an attractive element for the maintenance of the population in our rural area. The CAP is already the essential element of agricultural policy. And, however, it is of vital importance for Galicia to maintain the two pillars of the CAP. In particular, the first pillar of the CAP was of particular importance in three fundamental respects, and it must be further developed towards a future. On the one hand, as a reinforcement of the adoption of sustainable agricultural and livestock production methods and benefits to the environment, through conditionality and green payment; on the other hand, by promoting the maintenance of rural areas, by favouring agricultural activity; and on the third hand, because the agricultural incomes of producers increase and the economic viability of our farms. The second piar for which Galicia also fights is rural development. It seeks to respond to the many economic, environmental and social challenges of the twenty-first century, with a greater degree of flexibility, which is the first pillar, allowing us to formulate our own rural development programmes from the different autonomous communities, from the states, that we adapt them to our needs and that they are the very actors in the territory, through the Leader approach, those dealing with local problems. The CAP also helps farmers to be more productive and improve their technical skills. In its early years, the CAP also encouraged farmers to use modern machinery, to use new techniques, which also used fertilizers, plant protection products. At that time it was necessary because the priority was to grow more food for the population. The policy developed at that time was effective and productivity increased. The yield of crops has increased, although since 2000 it has remained stable. And now it is up to us to face new challenges and in the post-2020 CAP it is up to us to face fundamental challenges, such as research and innovation, so that our farmers and livestock produce more and less. The CAP, and until 2020, which are available funds, helps farmers to grow in a way that reduces the emission of greenhouse gases, also to use environmentally friendly agricultural techniques, to produce and market the food specialties of each region, to make more productive use of our mountains and forest space, and to develop new uses for agricultural products and sectors such as cosmetics, medicine or even craftsmanship. And the European Union must face more challenges, and Galicia has many challenges to face after 2020. On the one hand, to ensure a viable production of food that contributes to feeding the world population, which is expected to increase considerably in the future. It has another challenge: climate change and sustainable management of natural resources. And no less important, which is the depopulation and maintenance of a living rural economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the uniqueness of the Galician agricultural sector, although shared by other autonomous communities, is also conditioned by its own aspects. We are the first Spanish power and the ninth European milk power. Predominance of the beef sector, especially the milk sector, which accounts for 50 per cent of state-wide holdings, but in addition to that, in the beef sector, is where we have the largest number of dairy farms, which depend to a large extent on aid for their sustainability. Another factor that distinguishes us is that, despite having half a million hectares of agrarian surface, which actually comes to be little, the number of plots is very high, they are more than fifteen million plots, so the management of surface-related aids is much more complex in Galicia than in any other country at the national level. In Galicia, most aid applications are women, 57% of the physical population, compared to a state average of 35%, so the CAP also represents a tool for promoting gender equality in rural areas. And, on the other hand, the support that represents the CAP aid has promoted Galicia today to be a prominent European region as a producer of quality food, the third most important community in Spain, and territorially we have to say that we are the first. We have thirty-three denominations of origin and IXP (protected geographical indications). In April 2017 Galicia conducted a situation analysis and positioned at the Ministry level. In November 2017 the European Commission sent the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee, as well as the Committee of the Regions, its communiqué, which is the future of food and agriculture. This is the basis on which you are working and on which you will continue to work until at least we have knowledge of the financial framework on May 2nd. This document highlights the need for the CAP to address, on the one hand, the challenges of the Union, the international commitments of the European Union, and of course must also be directed at meeting the obligations laid down in the Treaty on European Union for the CAP. In addition, the communication provides for a model based on a single strategic plan for the two pillars of the CAP, which must be designed by the Member State and geared towards results. This implies, as you can imagine, a radical change in previous reforms; that is, at first we were told that the 2020 CAP would be an evolution but it would end up being a real revolution. Many are the challenges facing the European Union, many are the challenges facing Spain, but many are the challenges, undoubtedly those facing Galicia. We're clear. We need the same budget, we need the two pillars that are key to development, and we need to make it clear that we need to strengthen the value chain, especially for those who are weakest, farmers and livestock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u97	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, Counselor, for giving us an accelerated CAP but the CAP in general. Because the other CAP is a ghost, it's a ghost. We do not know, having no budget, being the European Parliament a year away from changing, is to make elubrations in the air. Let's see. It will be necessary — you mentioned this — that they visit us a lot and show you Galicia and its reality, and that they take that reality from Galicia wherever they go, Europe or where they go. I'm glad it doesn't bring optimism, that overwhelming optimism you have at times, because that's going to put them a little bit more in the reality of this country. Because, over the period, the CAP is being applied in a rural environment in the final process of disintegration — I believe I am very sorry to say this, but it is true. With you the rural environment has suffered a brutal process of forced and induced derailment. He had a little hope — which you know what I mean — from 1985 onwards, from 1980 onwards, that of milk, which ended up in failure, because you didn't fight for these people who, at the date of the earth, know the earth and the uro, the potato and the cheese, the rye and the corn, the misery and hope. You, in your second triumphal era, continued to sink into the mistakes that you dragged back. You, instead of learning from the price crisis of 2015 and starting policies for the enhancement and stimulation of the dairy sector, making land available to you to reduce dependence on external inputs and increase yields per litre, continued to look elsewhere, as if it were not your business. They keep a fossilized Bantegal to use it as a banner at the gastronomic parties, where they speak — I say — of "the green that was my valley." This is what we have to add to a dairy, weak, non-German capital industry. We produce 40% of state milk and the dairy industry located here does not reach 10%. In terms of employment and added value, with 40% production, the German capital industry accounts for 3%-4% of the state. Without an industry that completes the production chain, you know that if you don't generate added value, the dairy sector will still be vulnerable, and it's being vulnerable. When New Zealand comes out of the drought, we're going to have a little problem again, or a problem again. The Greek agricultural policy, Counselor, is hypothesized by the poor management of the mountains. Public expenditure in the fight against fire increased from 6 million euros in 1989 to 68.6 million euros in 2006 and in 2018 we reached 192 million euros, of the 494 total budget of the Council, 39% of the total. They violate prevention measures, deriving from European funds for extinction, losing the European co-financing of 75%, as the Council has repeatedly warned. Because you can't keep a mess in land management with your policy of "you're going to do, you're going to plant, if there's no one to denounce you." We need diversification policies, ordering the forest masses in mosaic and the rural nuclei in uxfor or something else, such as defense against fire, and the management and use of the non-German private mountain. The above-mentioned report by the Board of Auditors points out that the forest sector has lost weight, both in economic value and in job creation, continuously in this area. How will the Government of Greece deal with the cuts in the European funds provided for by Brexit and estimated at about EUR 10 billion with this agricultural policy, which is hypothesized by unsustainable spending on extinguishing fires? Have you analyzed the challenge of drought, which is already with us and which exacerbates the violence of fires, soil erosion and emissions to the atmosphere caused by fires? Have you thought about any measures to set up rural spaces that are less vulnerable to fire? Are they aware that large agricultural areas in this country will need a little refreshment for their crops within a short period of time? Because we have to be careful; politics is that, it should be that: to move forward in time. But you know, Counselor? On all things, we need round and resolute policies against abandonment, against human desertification. Ourense burns with loneliness, it's the complaint of abandoned territory that turns despair into fire. Inciting abandonment, resulting from productive intensification, led us to population aging and to depopulation. In the last thirty years, since the entry into the EU, this process has brought us from 415,000 in 1985 to 45,000 in 2015. The land's untied gross production, the lack of public incentives to rent the area of the farms that are abandoned to increase the remaining land base and the permitfulness of forest plantations on abandoned agricultural land lead us to the loss of useful agricultural land. We had very little, and we still had less. And an intensification of production. Earth-based production is the best policy for us to defend ourselves from volatiles... from volatiles... — I'm not going to say, after eating — volatility of inputs prices — thought, fertilizers, gas oil — in the context of a growing world population and the brutal competitiveness of a globalized market. The nitrogen and phosphorus balances that MAPAMA makes reveal a worrying situation. More and more jurors are produced in less agrarian areas, leading to soil pollution, which, by the way, absorbs 85% of the sewage sludge produced in the towns and villages of Greece without control. Family farming and family farms are the main economic support of the rural population, so family farming should be waged in the face of the challenge of industrial livestock and macro-grids like those of Soria. They're there. Counsellor, the process in which we are immersed — and, besides, protected by you — take us there, to macro-grindes, one here, another there and another there, and nothing else. With the shortage... — I'm going to have to have, as we say, wet the straw— territorially based and increasing intensification, family farms are doomed to death. Look, my parish preserves fourteen dairy farms, one of pigs, three of turkeys and two of ponies, and there's no one left; however, there's no one left. At the productive level we duplicate or quadrupled the production and the number of heads 15 years ago, but all are forage trucks and concentrates that come from outside, no longer feed, we know the eucalyptus by the ears, but there's nobody left, there's no life. Brutal disgruntling and concentration and intensification killed joy, killed joy. You know what happened? Because you have always tried to look out, you have never been aware of the virtues of this land and of this people, who, with our particular climate, of crops, of the distribution of property, were claiming special measures adapted to our being, to our — let us say — singularities — so as not to deal with territorial and national identity? When will the characteristics of our country be valued in Europe, which is always prejudiced? The Greek reality is neither cerealist nor latifulist. Our differential elements should be dominant. You had to make Galicia present in Madrid and Europe: the workers for exploitation, the environmental and territorial value of our dairy farms, the gainful burden, the generation of employment. Doesn't this count? Of course I do. If we were to meet our reality, if the first thirty hectares were to be improved, the great cerealist Spanish lobbyists would mount in cholera. That's the problem! It's a weight problem. You really should come here to talk about the German position in the face of the challenges and uncertainties of Brexit, the progressive re-statement of the CAP, which will establish in Europe first and second farmers — and even third regions — and deepen the differences that exist today. Because every state, with what it can or can't afford, will put more or less money on the table. This position of a German country, of course, should be the result of dialogue tables with the sectors that still form the abused rural world, which did not exclude anyone, consensually and aiming at a position of country, in Madrid and in Europe. Why can you anticipate what they're going to do and negotiate when they end up with the greatest secrecy in Madrid to talk? 'of whom?', a European Parliament in its last year of office, without knowing what its composition will be, without knowing the budget. Tell us something about the future of the CAP, if you can say something right now, but, above all, tell us something, point it out, strengthen the German agricultural sector. Do it once and then we will be able to confront any CAP with vision of the future and with possibilities of having a presence, not only of mouthful, but of real, economic presence, with a strong country, with a country settled on their land and valuing and providing the values that this country has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u99	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u100	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We agree with the substantial importance of the CAP to the reality of the primary sector — and not only the primary sector — of this country, but we will try to give them our vision. Since the launch of the CAP, fifty-six years ago, many revisions and adaptations have been carried out. The one that brings us here today wakes up many fears from the prospect of losing funds and, possibly, more things. It's about 5%, 10%, 15% lower, but regardless of the final percentage, the reality is that nobody questions the reduction, and with it the drop in income for our farmers and farmers, which means the degradation of the safety net on agricultural activity and a threat to the socio-economic dynamics of the rural world in Galicia. The funds will come down and the impact will be noticed. At this point, we are discussing the quantitative silence of the loss of funds by the impact of Brexit, which will depend on whether it is soft or hard. But the threat, as you well said, is not only about Brexit, but also about introducing new variables into the European budget, such as increased border spending, defence, interior, immigration, etc., etc. For these reasons, the moment is key to defending in the Commission, with arguments and a strong position, so as not to lose any more funds. But not only the funds, but also that you can and must open a debate on how those funds are distributed, which is not a minor issue; rather it is key to checking how they will impact on territory and activity. The decline in funds is going to take place in the measures or instruments of the first pillar, but they will also affect, as I have said, the second pillar of the CAP, so we are not only talking about future aid for agricultural activity, but their impact will affect the incorporation of Thursdays, agroforestry investments, forestry aid, disadvantaged, agri-environmental areas, environmental care, infrastructure and, ultimately, the development of rural development, which in Galicia is crucial. The debate is currently focusing on the amounts of the budget for the new CAP, which call it the budget card, a matter which decides the Member States on, curiously, the only common European policy, which is the CAP. We have the impression that the Spanish Government is not making a clear and powerful defence of the agricultural sector and the rural world. The impression being moved is that the deficit caused by Brexit and the new immigration, border and defence costs are going to be transferred directly to the CAP, causing agricultural policies to lie on the loose, and not just these. If there is no remedy, we will find ourselves in a situation where the protection of the environment and of disadvantaged areas is intended to be made with less budget, transferring more duties to our farmers, but with less money, with which we will be transferring to farmers, with income to the bottom, the responsibility of caring for the environment, with which the payment for the environmental function continues to fall into reality, a claim that seems totally unreal and immoral to us. This budgetary debate is taking place in a context where the countries of the north are increasingly reluctant to make budgets for aid to agricultural development, among other things because we do not know or want to explain it well, or because of the characteristics of the very materialization of the CAP, which causes very critical situations. It is not to be accepted that 7% of the limited societies in this country cover 40% of Community aid. It is also unlikely that 80% of the aid will end up in the hands of about 20% of the owners or that almost 38% of the beneficiaries of the aid will be retired/pensionary, which is certainly not the best way to promote agricultural activity and that the eyes of those countries are clearly unacceptable. If we get the global data, we find that in Spain they are distributed annually around 5,000 million euros between about 800,000 perceivers. And if we compare ourselves to France, with a strong defence policy in the primary sector, we find that they share more than 8,000 million in nearly 300,000 perceivers. The differences are remarkable. It's a model matter, Counselor. In France, producers are paid to the owners in Spain, wishing to supplement other precarious situations such as low pensions in the primary sector with the CAP's money. So at this crucial moment for the rural world, the Government has to defend a model that, in order to further promote rural development, must think about giving more than is currently done and reject the negotiation model based on investing in what remains after dealing with the Brexit deficit and new defence costs, borders, etc. Once I have solved the budgetary issue, we must face the next debate, which is no more than how is the distribution in the Spanish State? With what criteria will it be done? This is a question — I repeat again — which is key. It's not just, therefore, a matter of funds and criteria, that it's also, but it's management. For example, contrary to what has been stated since the Council, in recent years officials have not been processing CAP or improvement plans, for example. These are done in the banking offices and in the unions. Since the Council, the order has been made for officials to monitor the shrub or tree pasture. Meanwhile, for example, in Andalusia and Extremadura they consolidated this type of space and use, here they put all possible obstacles, and, as a direct result, in the period 2015-2016 50,000 hectares of computational surface for the CAP were lost. This is simply called mismanagement. So you'll have to improve it, too. But, leaving aside the budgetary aspect, is the qualitative aspect of the CAP, or, what is the same, as we said before, how and to whom it will be shared. Is it sustainable for the Greek farmers and livestock to be distributed with current criteria? We don't think so. In the current model, the territorial base is taking precedence rather than the activity, with which the great owners of the south, the landowners or their landowners — the absenteeists — are clearly benefiting, and the minifunding territories — our own — are clearly affected, where the territorial area is a problem. This is causing a situation of clear comparative harm to the German case, where the Union cannot be inhibited in the face of this new CAP. It's an opportunity to turn around some sort of approach, like the territorial base. In a context where Member States can determine how to distribute the CAP within their borders, will the Council intersect with the Government's friend of the PP to change the mode and criteria for distribution? You should, if you want to do good the slogan of "rural legislation." There is also another fundamental criterion that is at stake and which negatively affects CAP perceivers. We are referring to the fact that, with the current model, it is the owner — and not the producer — that is the recipient of the aid, so that the circumstance is being given that retired owners continue to perceive the aid, while a producer who has rented these lands has no right to receive aid, thus breaking the principle of helping those who produce, just the opposite of what happens, for example, in France. A third aspect which we understand must change with the new CAP refers to the maximum extent to be perceived, which is currently around EUR 300,000, which clearly benefits the large landowners and does not provide for a greater distribution of aid, causing this large concentration of aid in 20% of landowners and clearly harming the Greek farmers and livestock. The final result is that the perceptions for the Greek farmers, which in 2016 were 28,642, declining year after year, as well as the number of the gain holdings, which have already fallen from that list of 8,000, are between 8,000 and 30,000 euros for the professional sector. We therefore argue that it is essential to change the current model of European aid to deal with this reduction in the Community budget. Not only do we stay strictly quantitative, but we also dive enough, we dive into other aspects that then have a great impact on activity, territory and our people. Apart from these productive aspects, structural funds are also in question, as you well said, so important to Galicia. In short, there are still many unknowns to solve so that the future CAP does not end up as a weapon of overthrow of the already questioned socio-economic activity in the Italian countryside. There's still a lot to work, we're in time, we're at the crossroads, and there's a lot of the variables to put on the table to straighten out this new agricultural policy that really benefits our countrymen, our neighbours, our land. For all this, we are calling for an active position on the part of the Council, on the part of the Council, for the defence of the Greek primary sector and of the rural world. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u101	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u102	Good afternoon to all and to all. Thank you, President. Counselor, very late. Thank you — and very much — for your presence here today in this House, since, in the middle of rural legislation, you are the advisor who has come here at least on his own request, and we believe that it does not bring any news because it seems quite serious. You gave us, you just gave us a master class of the CAP. He's also grateful, but, as Mr Rivas also said, it's something we can download from the Middle Rural Council page, and we already know what the CAP is. You did not speak much — I hope you will do so in the second intervention — of what these reforms will be and what will affect us, our knights and our owners. Being sure that we're at the beginning of the reform, there are two positions to be taken: that of "not early morning before dawn" or that of "whom the fox will have to cheat at dawn", so as not to have to suffer like this the "pleasant evening, little bird." Obviously, any country responsible, and headed by its governments, has to address reform from its beginnings, precisely at the moment the discussions are more open. Last November 29th, as you well said, the European Commission presented this communication entitled "The Future of Food and Agriculture." This is a guidance document of what the future common agricultural policy is going to be, in which there are no legislative proposals or concretions yet on how it will be applied, but it does set up a series of elements on which the debate will turn. And it is now open to all levels in Galicia, in the European states and institutions until the end of May, June principles, which will be when the committee presents these legislative proposals which say that they will be debated but that there will be no agreement between them — or we suppose — since we are talking about the fact that there will be an electoral process in the European Parliament in the middle and that, in principle, even the current CAP may be extended for at least a time. In short, the Commission proposal submitted on 29 November does not present a radical paradigm change in the concept of the CAP — something we have already believed to be a mistake — in which the CAP is conceived. It introduces elements — although they may be positive — that leave the states and regions to define much more application of it in their territory. And at this early stage, the most important thing seems to reflect on the so-called new model of application that revolves around the ideas of the strategic plans of the CAP, which seems to be that they will also affect the worst number one. With these elements, the Commission proposes greater subsidiarity within the framework of clear and agreed objectives at European Union and regional level. In other words, it proposes that the objectives of the CAP be defined at the level of the European Union and also at the level of each territory. And then, a general framework for intervention with a type of instrument to be achieved which is already going to be common to the European Union. Then it will be the states or regions that, depending on their agricultural and climate characteristics, will adapt the intervention mechanisms to their reality. This also includes greater presence in the design of the control and compliance framework. For example, Galicia today can decide how to set up its basic payments, adapting them, for example, to the country's particular structural characteristics or specialization profile. This new approach offers a great opportunity to make a suit tailored to the needs of the Germans, something that has been demanded on numerous occasions, starting at the moment of the entry into the European Union. In other words, the Commission suggests that this Strategic Plan of the CAP can be done at regional level, which in a region like Galicia is clearly important for its climate, structural and specialization differentiation with respect to most of the rest of the state. The Ministry has already clearly stated that its position is to defend a plan at the national level, and everything points to whether it's going to either try or either go down the bulk or look for any argument to avoid losing power in the control of the piar one; something that we believe from En Marea that must be done entirely otherwise. This new model of application presents, in addition to this great opportunity, two major challenges. First, it implies that we have regions with vision and capabilities to develop, argue and implement the Strategic Plan — that is, do it ourselves — and what this involves is to prepare us for it too. And not only that, but that in the case of the State, because they will also have to treasure the political strength and technical arguments to counter the centralizing control position of the ministry. One might ask, for example, whether the Greek dairy sector is interested in anyone who designs the direct payments of the future is thinking more about the great owners of the south. It also needs the discussion, at Galicia level, of what model of support if we want for our agriculture and livestock, which will probably have to go through managing diverse interests and views of the agricultural model to be developed. So this will require that the Government have to define its own vision for the agricultural sector, something that is not currently happening. There are obvious reasons for having doubts about this point by looking at the behavior of the counsellor in recent years. In particular, in the interventions that have been made so far; for example, the adoption of the current RDP has been followed by a strong repressive of the European Commission by the limited and limited participation which had taken place during its preparation. Limitations which continue today in the Follow-up Committee itself, as many members of the Committee have made it manifest. At the level of this Parliament we see how the People's Party voted against some En Marea initiative that tried to advance the payments of the CAP to October, as they do in other communities, to relieve the economies of our farms. But we've been more concerned about the operations of this council in relation to the reform that is under way. When you took part a year ago in the Conference of Autonomous Communities organized by the Ministry, supposedly to define a Spanish position, the whole of the Greek agricultural sector and society as a whole, we learned by the press of which that position was supposed to be; there were the agricultural unions and other organizations. When a few days ago, on April 10, you organized those days -- and we were invited, as you said, and we couldn't go because it coincided with a plenary -- after being announced a few days in advance, you come to us with participation and transparency, a purely informative act, which was only in one direction and to a good extent we saw as propaganda, at least what we could see in the media. The only possibility of participation was through a series of limited questions — not everyone could participate — and directed only to the outsiders. I mean, there were no questions to either the president of the board or you, the only ones who were supposed to talk about the Welsh posture. So, of course, from En Marea we have to ask how you can think of defining a strategic plan of the CAP for Galicia if the agricultural sector has neither voice nor vote and attends through plasma to how an element of such importance is negotiated for the future of its activity. We would like to ask you a few questions — if you have to answer in the following intervention — which is: in the face of the reduction of funds that are likely to be given by the way out of the United Kingdom of the European Union and its consequence in the income of farmers and farmers, what alternatives or solutions does the consultancy have in mind? Who's going to assume that descent? — as has happened in the present PDR— if it is going to be Galicia, if it is going to be Madrid. According to news from the press — which is how we are learning about all this — you had a meeting in Brussels with the Deputy Director General for Agriculture, which proposals have moved you to the new CAP? Neither the political organizations, nor the trade unions, nor the agricultural organizations were informed or consulted at that meeting. What do you think of those deep and transcendental changes that will affect Galicia? And if enough are the contacts, meetings and work committees that your department is doing with the affected sectors. In these days you have also made several allusions to your counterpart of Castela-Leon — present in the act — as a possible ally in defending those common interests. Doesn't it seem obvious to you that perhaps our autonomous community has much to do with other communities like Asturias or Cantabria? I don't know if you've also had meetings with other autonomous communities to address these changes in the CAP. I don't know if you're going to demand Madrid that the new CAP plans not be made from there and that they take place from Galicia, like the current PDR. Do you think the board has the ability to carry out these plans when they are unable to appoint a FOGGA sub-director with continuity — this is very serious — with charge over the past year and a half? How do you interpret the resignation of the previous sub-directors of your team? Will they follow the same path as the CAP 2020 as the PDR with regard to transparency and enforcement? With regard to incorporations and training, you know that one of the basic lines for developing the incorporation of boys and girls is going to be the training. How will this vital challenge be met after the dismantling of training schools by removing human and material resources, including privatizing many of their own skills; and, among them, these training courses for boys and girls? We're going to have a fund reduction of between 5 and 8%, it's forecasting a drop of about 10 billion euros. We are going to have more environmental requirements and we are going to have to respect the goals and objectives achieved by the Union at the international level in environmental matters. This is good, yes, but it does not stop being more than a wash in the face of public opinion, since the model of the agro-industry for export remains the model — that of agro-industry — which is not compatible at all with the sustainability of our territory. We're gonna have more decision-making power for the member states and the regions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u104	...on the help of the first pier, but do the duties, as in the new model of direct payment help management. We must increase the aid for the incorporation of young people, and we see negatively that it continues to be bet on the distribution of direct aids based only on the surface. At the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u105	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to begin my intervention by thanking — but in this case indeed — the presence of the adviser, on his own request, to report on a subject which, in my view, is of utmost importance to the future of the rural Greek, the Greek economy, and clearly the agricultural part. We are talking about Community agricultural policy. I think that, as a first reflection, we should all understand that Galicia is part of a state, that is Spain, that it has to negotiate in the European Community, and we would all very well also have a common position and a strong position, a position of unity. In this debate it would be important to talk about what is being brought here today, which is precisely the CAP. I would like to say, Mr Rivas, that the second intervention at least told us what the Block has to do with the CAP. Because you here took out the entire repertoire but didn't talk about the CAP. He had missed the uxfor, but from the rest, he took out the entire repertoire, except to talk about the CAP. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the agricultural sector in the whole of the European Union — and therefore is affected by Community agricultural policy — is of fundamental importance in many and different aspects. We are talking about farmers, besides feeders — who feed more than 500 million European citizens — who are also environmental administrators, who take care of natural resources — from land, water, air, biodiversity — in 48% of the European Union's land. We have 11 million farms in the European Union. We have in the European Union, directly linked to agriculture, 22 million people working. And indirectly within the food sector which is related to agriculture, 44 million jobs. The rural areas of the European Union as a whole house 55% of its citizens, so Community agricultural policy is something very important within the European Union as a whole. The CAP, which appears in 1962, at its first moment had as its fundamental objective to improve agricultural productivity; that is, to make consumers have a stable supply of food at appropriate prices, and also to guarantee farmers a reasonable standard of living. The CAP, which is a European decision — it is not a Spanish decision or a Welsh decision — almost 40% of the European Union budget. If we look at the total expenditure within the European Union, the issue is less, because we'd be talking about 1%. But what happens is that the CAP is a policy directly funded by the European Union, not by the Member States. So we're all interested in this being maintained; this is one of the goals that is being done in Madrid, supported, without any doubt, by the board. In 2016 I submitted the CAP 61,000 million euros. It came from a first moment, when it was 75% of the European Union's total budget, to 40% now, more or less, we would be 38%. But what's going on, which has also been incorporated in other states at this time, there are more farmers and they're going down the money; and now we're in a situation where there may be difficulties in that area too. You used to talk about the great owners of the South, but I would also like to point out here that in the last ten years — as the advisor said before — there were 2,600 million of the CAP in Galicia, which means that an average of 33,000 beneficiaries are coming each year. Basically — we've collected it before, and it's not about giving here a master class, but about what we've been talking about today, which is the CAP, we've been working through three fundamental mechanisms, which are income support, are market mechanisms — that there would be, as we said, the first pillar — and rural development measures. Income support comes exclusively from the budget of the European Union. This is very important to me because we are talking about solidarity on the part of countries that are net contributors within the European Union towards agriculture in the whole European Union, and of course also about Greek. And on the second floor we would have the rural development measures, which in Galicia are very important. These rural development measures are carried out through multiannual programmes co-financed by the Member States. I wanted to point out here one of the dangers of what Mr. Rodríguez said, for example. What is happening now in Europe and what is being discussed is that the entire CAP has to be taken to the states. Yes, we're going to leave her capacity to organize it, but the money puts the states. And we must defend that the CAP remains in the budget of the European Community. The CAP has changed its orientation over these years. I had already said that in the beginning it was about guaranteeing food for citizens and achieving a decent standard of living for farmers. However, starting in 2013, in the latest CAP reform, the aim is to strengthen the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, promote sustainable agriculture and innovation, support employment and growth in rural areas. Thank you, among other things, for this orientation, we managed to pass the ecological farmer in the European Union as a whole from 2% of the useful agricultural area to 6%; 2000 to 2%, 6% in 2015. Finally, we have a Community agricultural policy which comes from exclusively European funds and which is currently helping farmers to grow in a way that reduces greenhouse gas emissions; to use ecological agricultural techniques, where Galicia is achieving magnificent results; to produce and market the food specialties of its regions; to make more productive use of forests and forest space; to develop new uses for agricultural products in sectors such as cosmetics, medicine or crafts. And besides, and these are the challenges that come now, we have to guarantee a viable production of food that contributes to feeding the world population, thinking that in the future it will increase considerably. We have to deal with climate change, sustainable management of natural resources, and we have to deal with the care of the countryside throughout the European Union, and at the same time with the maintenance of a living rural economy. Within this general approach, at European Union level, as also pointed out by the advisor, we have to consider what the specificities of Galicia are and we have to see if we are able to defend these specificities. First. We are the first Spanish power and the ninth European milk power. More than 50% of State exploitation is in Galicia. We are a community, and this is an important issue with regard to the CAP, in which, although we do not have too much land, half a million hectares, we have a very high number of plots. This is a tremendous difficulty for your management. We have to be very incisive in the reform of the CAP in which, without any doubt, if we have to simplify its process. In addition, in Galicia most aid seekers are women, so also the CAP can help promote gender equality in rural areas. Another very important thing in the Italian field. The CAP has also promoted Galicia today to be a prominent European region as a producer of quality food. We are Spain's third most important community and territorially the first. These are all, ladies and gentlemen, guidance from the Community's agricultural policy. We all referred to a document with which the European Commission started the reform of the CAP by 2020 ahead of time, which is the so-called Food and Agriculture Future, and I, who read the document, I am sure you have also read it, find that it is of fundamental importance because it is an important qualitative change in this policy. The fundamental objectives for 2020 ahead will be: promoting a resilient and smart agricultural sector; intensifying environmental care and climate action and strengthening the socio-economic fabric of rural areas. Look, in order to achieve these objectives, the agricultural sector and rural areas will have to be better connected, with the development of human capital and research. So the new CAP is going to be a support for innovation. But it will also have to respond to social expectations as regards the sustainable production of food; that is, everything that is related to food security, food quality and animal and environmental welfare standards. Home!, these are news that are shaping the evolution of this policy. We also have a worrisome context and we must allude to it; you also spoke of it. First, the breakdown that will be lost in the year 2019 is a net contributor as it is the United Kingdom. And I'd add two more. The escalation in the international threats of a trade war on the Asia-Pacific axis, which, in fact, can affect the export of our agricultural products. In addition, the European Union's commitments on export subsidies, non-tariff barriers and the current agricultural sector support treatment through the CAP. See, the United Kingdom — this is a major problem — contributed in 2016, 5,708 million euros. There's a low income. How are you going to fight this? And there are different positions: cut splits, go to public-private collaboration or, Mr. Rodríguez -- and that's hard -- go to co-financing with the member states. If it is achieved by the net contributor countries that Community agricultural policy emerges from the budget of the European Community, we have a tremendous problem. And why? Because this possibility meant breaking the common market, so that countries with greater funding capacity could subsidise their farmers more and more. Others might decide not to subsidise, or they would have no money to subsidise agriculture, which could have a dramatic effect on the rural depopulation process. So you have a terrible effect on us, that we have a great dispersion of our population. Here we have to be smart, we have to defend with Madrid — and when I talk about Madrid, I speak of the Spanish package — a unique position in the European Economic Community, and we have to defend the following proposals. This is the proposal of the parliamentary group and, of course, also of the Council. We have to defend a strong CAP that keeps its current budget allocation, without, in any case, defending its renationalization. We have to defend a CAP as we now have, with two pillars, with direct aids and rural development. We need to defend a CAP to maintain the number of farmers and farmers with decent income levels, which guarantee the generational remittance. A CAP focused on payments to active farmers. I'm glad, Mr. Quiroga, that you defend that too. A CAP that contemplates the peculiarities of our community, such as the dispersion of the population, the size of farms, the weight of mountain areas and with natural limitations. It's all about the CAP and it affects us too. A CAP that seeks healthy nutrition; a CAP that supports Galicia's bet on producing healthy and safe food and quality, our 33 designations of origin and protected geographical indications. A more simplified CAP with less regulatory and administrative burden. I think, and I conclude, that in this negotiation Galicia plays an important part of its future, so it is necessary for all of us to support the Spanish Government's position in the negotiation, understanding that its position is coordinated with Galicia, of course, given the importance that our agriculture has in the whole country. So, ladies and gentlemen, support in this area is not a political issue, but it is clearly a question of support for Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u107	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Replica, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u108	Thank you very much, President. I'm going to try to answer some questions that have been asked here, and I'm starting with Mr. Rivas. I was wondering what he was bringing here today. Well, I bring information and transparency. If you think I'm here to say that this is a wonderful thing and there won't be any problem, that's to deceive the farmer and the farmer, and for that it doesn't contain me. I came to tell them the pros and cons. I'm here to tell you how the CAP has developed, the importance of the CAP, that even in many municipalities it is superior what farmers and farmers receive to budget the municipality itself. And from here on, they're doing a series of negotiations. Negotiations in which he began to work since last year and in which Galicia has a position that comes to be unanimous with the rest of the autonomous communities except with two, which is the case of Aragon and the case of Navarre. I say this because it is not about politics, there are different tunes, but in the end it is fought — and so we were able to prove it in the month of April last year — for a common good, and that common good are the farmers and the owners, and it gives the same thing as Asturias, Castile-Leon, who was Murcia, who was Madrid, who was about Andalusia or Galicia. I mean, we want to meet a few minimums, and within those minimums by saying clear and high that we should continue with the same budget, and that's why we're going to fight. But if you think I'm coming here to tell the farmer and the farmer that from 2020 we're going to have the same budget because I say so, that's not the case. It's the negotiations. It is true that the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, has indeed taken his clear position in the sense that, if more is needed, the Spanish Government will make more effort to have the same budget in the face of a future. With which, information and transparency is what is brought here. As it is true that you have named different causes or concepts that you have in your mind, I want to say that sometimes our memory becomes weak with the passage of time and there is something fundamental, since we speak of milk, which is who has negotiated the entry of the European Union. Let's just leave it there, because that's what the yellow thugs remember very well, and what the consequences were after. On the other hand, we need to talk about funds, we need to talk about having EUR 190 million, that these EUR 190 million are annual and are guaranteed until 2020. And from there on, we're in negotiations. And that for Galicia the two pillars are transcendental, fundamental. On the one hand, direct payments and on the other hand rural development. And that's where Galicia is going to work, budgeting and two fundamental pillars. And as we were talking here about everything coming down, everything dying and negotiations on the Government of Galicia were always frustrating, we talked about direct payments, in 2008, 154 million euros; in 2015, 167 million euros. That is, an increase of 8.4% more since the year 2008 from that negotiation to 2015. I'm saying it's always good to remember. And it's also good to remember that not everything dies, because we already have the data on Thursdays that opt for the incorporation again in Galicia and that they requested this year 2018, and it's 474 Thursdays. I was on a holding yesterday and there was a Thursday, and I wanted to meet myself first-hand, I seek to meet all those Thursdays because they're very crazy every time they say they join the Thursdays but they're not real Thursdays. They take a tour of the Italian countryside and see what training they have and the illusion they're going to make of their investments to stay in the German countryside. [[Applause]] To all of this remember, because here too you want to remember, that there is again a request for 900 improvement plans and a funding of 65 million euros for this year by the Rural Council. And on the other hand, sometimes we talk about eucalyptus yes, eucalyptus no. Come on, let's go down the street and get people tired of all this. Let's stop teledirecting livestock and farmers. Mr. Rivas, you can hardly win elections in municipalities like the case of Boimorto. No, I hear them, and from there, after listening, it's when you take the necessary measures to legislate. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Having said this, I also wanted to reply to Mr Quiroga that it is no longer the agricultural offices that make the applications, that they supervise... look, Europe is clear in this sense and there are the advisory bodies and there is the figure of the adviser. And Galicia is pioneering and training is being done through the University so that there are specialized advisers in different areas. We talked about revisions, field revisions, as might be the case with pastures. And what did Galicia do? Well, Galicia did comply with the rule, and so it didn't get the disgust of millions and millions of euros to return to the Castile-A-Mancha case. But what if we did was also work when the farmer asked us to do so, which is the verification periods so that they wouldn't be harmed. We got it, but we didn't do it until we had the favorable reports, because then we sold smoke, but finally, when we do an audit, it's the farmers themselves and the livestock who have to do the returns, and by that line we really don't like to go. At the same time as we fought, and we did it through the European Commission to equate UGM and hectares and thus favour the native races and mountain ranges. That was a more important line to keep the autochthonous races on the mountain shining and on the mountain of Ourense. There were eight thousand farms. Look, dairy farms are very important. We are the ninth major region at European level. But we don't care about the other 22,000 livestock farms that are meat cows, because it's a lot of people who live around them, and it's a lot of benefit what they're giving us at the environmental level and through extensive gain. On the other hand — and I was pointing out — Mr Rodríguez Estévez spoke about the legislative proposals. These will be developed from a financial framework, which was previously impossible. The CAP is in force; the current CAP is in force until 2020. It's true that they start with changes, a long time ago, and I told them earlier, we were sold in a principle that this was an evolution and is now being a revolution, and within that revolution, Galicia makes it clear and the Ministry also makes it clear. But then, what is the legislative framework, will be the posteriori. So, what's going to happen? You told us we'd done it like an information talk. Look, we had representatives of the European Commission, we had representatives of the Council and we had representatives of the Ministry, three key pieces. Of course, to me and the President of the Council of Galicia, the sector keeps me up-to-date, both in San Caetano and in the territory, for all kinds of information, and so they're doing it. But the important thing is that the representatives of the livestock and farmers themselves, and all those who live around this sector, could ask their questions and transfer their concerns to the representatives of the Commission and the Council, which look! they did not agree with the proposals, because the CAP is not two and two are four. What we are talking about is that they know first-hand, on the one hand, the political framework, on the other hand the legislative framework and the position of the state, and they three were to ask the questions. By the way, regardless of how time ran out, because it was more important what they had been moving from there -- and they didn't sell panacea, but reality -- then we had time to be able to dialogue between the parties by tasting the good wines of Greece, as it couldn't be otherwise. With which, it wasn't an act... a smile, but after six hours of an informative talk, well-deserved people have a wine and can talk to different representatives, and thus clarify certain killings. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The singularities? Of course they're put on the table, but it's singularities that we move to Europe level and then we have to manage since we have the funds at national level. As for the invitation, which I think they were worried about, the counsellor of Castile-Leon was invited, she was invited to the councillor of Asturias and she couldn't come, but they believe that when it comes to seeking funds and fighting for a common good there is no difference in whether she is Asturias, whether she is Cantabria, whether she is Castile-Leon, or whether she is Galicia. Where there are differences, for example with Cantabria, it's in animal health. And there I disagree, and I'll never agree to how it is in Cantabria, but how it is in Galicia. With Asturias we have continuous fluid dialogue. We have it, for example, in the corrective measures that we are carrying out with the Guatemalan elbow, with certain differences, because we are even more restrictive, for fear of expansion, than they can be, but dialogue is continued. Having said that, to say that any reform of the CAP is an additional effort by managers, there is no doubt about it. Managers who are in FOGGA, for example, who have to have double sensitivity. On the one hand, comply with European guidelines because audits come later, but also continuous and deep understanding with the farmer and the farmer. And they have to be able to speak their own language, and that requires the advisor, with which additional efforts are made, and not everyone is for work. What to do is make changes, just like changes are made in the general directions at any other time. And we also have to be able to make it easier for people who at one time want to change, being an official, their job. It would just take us to pick people up so that they'd be in the same position all their lives, which I don't think is productive. Which, additional effort we are asking the managers for, because they need to re-adapt. And look!, the 2015 reform has had a lot of adoption problems in all affected countries. And the committee itself has determined transitional measures to be able to make payments, as well as multiple clarifications, year by year, and consultations on the implementation of these measures. And what you don't want to allow Spain and what you don't want to allow Galicia is that this happens again. We believe in a stable framework, we believe in a long-term framework, and of course we do not want farmers and farmers from 2020 to be able to be long-term without those much-needed burdens. In view of these circumstances, and based on experience, what we recommend from Galicia is that this reform enables the resolution of the problems that still exist, because not all have been resolved. For example, in the current reform, concepts have been defined as an active farmer, and if the question is why Galicia opts, of course by the active farmer, that nobody has the slightest doubt. There's another concept, and the concept is agrarian activity. These have proved complex, and it continues to make its definition complex today, and they have been carried out in addition to a huge administrative burden, which we expect to solve in the future. In the specific case of Galicia, the overcrowding of farms, that large number of plots, of course, has a direct impact on the execution of payments to aid applicants! But I believe that we are an example throughout Europe, with an excessive cost which also covers the autonomous community, which has been implementing telematic controls. From this point of view, it is interesting that reporting systems and, of course, surface control, as I said earlier, are stable in time. It can't be that every five years we have to make changes. At the technical level, we continue to demand that the CAP implement procedures that simplify aid, and, look!, the farmer and the farmer, when we tell them simplification, put their hands on them, because the administration, far from simplifying, what it does is to mess with, and Galicia calls for real simplification. He asked Europe to transfer the uniqueities of Galicia, and of course he also transferred it to the Ministry. The management of CAP aid, as I said before, is complex, and it is complex because there is no single Community regulation, and we also have national legislation that transposes them. But apart from recommendations, there are working documents, i.e. double sensitivity for CAP managers. And there is a consensus, and it is a consensus recognised by the committee itself, in which the application of payment for agricultural practices beneficial to climate and the environment is being very complex, too complex, so that the objectives of this measure aimed at the adoption of environmentally friendly systems could be compromised. And that's where we're working, too. It is therefore necessary that this measure be simplified and that it take account of the particularities of Galicia. Galicia also supports the establishment of measures to respond quickly to price fluctuations, because we are subject to a lot of volatility, with which there has to be an instrument, and that instrument can only be through the European Commission. We have to deal with the continence. We're talking about milk, but we can talk about meat, we can talk about the garden; that is, they're products that are constantly being watered down and formulas have to be implemented, and the CAP is one of them. And then, of course, we continue to support the incorporation of Thursdays into agricultural activity. It's fundamental to have a generational rebound and to have a rural totally alive. And, on the other hand, look!, and I think this is very important, Galicia supports the creation of societies in which these young farmers, these young farmers, are incorporated, in a way less restrictive than the current one, because it is true that the current rule is being complicated when making societies between parents and children, between young ones that are incorporated. On the other hand, as you know, we're with the first review at the forest level. We are the first power at the national level, we are also the ninth at the European level. No matter what it's said, jobs have been lost, economics have been lost, otherwise, and if we can't facilitate data. Therefore, the forest area must also be taken into account through the CAP. On the one hand, because it fixes 93 million tons of carbon, and that's fundamental, and on the other hand, because in the review there are 225,000 hectares of grass, because we bet on the management and use of pastures in the Greek mountains. Another goal, in this same line of action, is to improve the competitiveness of the extensive gain in the mountains, where the native races of Galicia control the exuberant growth of the slaughterhouses, because Galicia's climate is still getting wet, contrasts are the ones that are, and there's no more to go out into the field, there's no more to go out to the mountain, to see how they grow and grow the slaughterhouses. It's about ensuring a integration of the logging activity into sustainable forest management by its special importance in large areas of the Galician rural, in a framework that is that of management and silvopastoral development, but not just to talk about the mouth, there are texts. So I invite you to make your contributions, which will be very welcome to a future, and because you surely contemplate sensibilities that may not be collected at a given time. In this context, the main objectives are to contribute to the ecological balance of flora and fauna, to take control of shrub vegetation, also to re-evaluate the landscape and promote production systems compatible with the environment; ultimately, to fight climate change. And something fundamental within this CAP, which we understand from Galicia that it must have a primary role because it is a sustainable area of the agricultural sector and rural environment, it is the value chains; that value chains are reinforced within a frame, and that framework is that the weakest always, the farmer and the farmer, are protected in the value chain. That is why we are pleased that on April 16 the Council of Ministers had begun working at European level on the value chain regulation, because until now it had Spain but not the rest of the countries, with which we were in a situation of great disadvantage. Ladies and gentlemen, the maintenance of agricultural income is the fundamental cornerstone of agricultural activity, so direct aid is essential. Thus, the new reform must maintain the final momentum that began in 2015, but taking into account all the accumulated experience to adopt reforms that do not complicate life, but make it easier in the Italian countryside. We therefore look forward to post 2020 reform as a compromise between the experience of the current period and the achievement of the new objectives of the European Union. If the question is whether it will be closed before or after the next municipal elections, which coincide with the European elections, I believe that Galicia is unknown to this framework, but also not to all the countries that make up the European Union. It is therefore essential to continue to maintain the current budget with a CAP structured into two pillars. It's something Galicia can't give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u109	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Counsellor, all these concepts of what we've talked about here directly clash with the average age of the rural population, with the closure of uncontinuity farms, until the closure of the taverns; the fights are idle, there is no one to handle them. You see, isn't it surreal this whole reflection on the CAP? Right, forty seconds and we've already got our head like a bomb? The CAP was born to solve the problem of hunger in Europe, after the Nazi war, to develop agriculture and get out of this barbarism. We came late, and we walked in through the yard door, and those who administered the postage aid to the point of diluted them into atrocious caciquism, which came from behind. And this is really the punching reality. They burned more tons of cement in pure pits that were useless, and in modern cuts that did not serve anything, and in dilapidated aids to satisfy this and the other, and to disturb this and the explosion... that did not serve anything. The time of the block and the cement, and the uralite, which could have been a splendid era, has remained in nothing, and that ship is the one we see now. Look at you, you say that you have both the Greek farmers and the stints and songs. Well not to us, and that's the difference, that's the difference. I know we're provincialists, we're a mess. We're interested in Galicia, you've noticed, right? We're looking, we're worried that the CAP is 155 for our country. And you know why it's a 155 constant? Because it's crushing us, because it's crushing us, because it doesn't recognize the reality of this country; the reality of the people who inhabit it, the reality of the territory we have, agriculture, the gain. [[Applause]] What do we eat in this country, in the cities of this country? What does our field provide? We eat beans from Poland, we eat strawberries from China and Peru, we eat rabbits from French Britain. And our cabbage, where are they? Where are our cabbage? Who cultivates you? Counsellor, I can't in any area produce here, and sometimes those potatoes that happen to be from Limia, Welsh, if you take them off, still have the French potato seal. This is a reality, man! [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, you guys don't know the country's product well, what the fuck! Look, look! wait, I've got more, I've got more, I've got more, not if I'm angry. You're talking about producing safe food. In a time of searching for novelties that impact on the market, that value singular and genuine, research and innovation are basic. Research and innovation. And that's why we have our agricultural research centers under minimum. We have our agricultural research centres under minimum! We have research values that you, in your cigarette shop, prevented them from creating schools. There are no heirs to that wise investigation that began with the Biological Mission and continued with many other centers. These technicians, who advised them on that subject of 5% beard -- remember, Counsellor? -- nine months, and the three crops to favor green, all depended on when it was the period of control. In April it was the good thing for the yellow thugs, for you it had to be in June. Two years have passed, and they have moved and arrived — thank you! — two years lost. Here, really, is that people are territory in this country, they're not a biblical curse. Minifundism isn't a biblical curse, you have to fix it, and you haven't done it, or you're going to do it, because you don't know. You don't know, no, no, no! How much sophomore is there? In the Fire Commission they told us there was one but precarious. And how are they going to do it? How are you going to articulate this territory so that the small mountain windows can explode and pull out four pines that can each have? How will they do it? When are you going to order this territory? When will this territory be used? When will the rural environment be taken seriously? Because to take it seriously is to give it a full turn, to give it a complete turn, and in the beginning to get rid of that rural environment. And that's what they have to do, they have to do because society is demanding it; although they vote for it, even if they vote for it, they're demanding it. You know why they vote for them, don't you? You and I know how that works, and so do the others. Yes, yes, yes! [[Murmurs.]] Do you know why I'm telling you this? Because we only look in principle, in the middle and in the end by the Greek farmers. You know why? Because we're not the ones who took off the hat, sir. No, no, what you're ordering, right? We believe in the possibilities of this country, and that's what we're going to do, and that's what we're going to keep going, and we're going to try and get them out as many colors as possible, because that's our obligation, that's our obligation. Our mandate to be here in the opposition is to get you to go, and you don't walk. You know why? Because the CAP is still a package, the package — which my father said — the package of war: pac, pac, pac, pac. For us, that's it. Look, what did you do at the entrance? And who prepared this country? I remember a society in 1985, 1986 and 1988 that was not prepared to do artificial prairie. I remember a society that didn't know what a California test was -- my school explained that to the farmers -- to detect a subclinical mastitis, or a mummy, or subclinical garbage. That was all you could do with the money that came from Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u112	You were able to prepare this country and set it up as a flag, and make a rich country. They had no noses, they didn't know, they didn't want, they didn't want this country, and they still want it fakely, really — with all cordiality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u113	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u114	Counsellor, what we've drawn in clean of this intervention, apart from the good intentions of the glorious future that can wait for us all, is that, in fact, this is still green; I mean, it's in the first steps. You yourself claimed the negotiation that they have a common position or that they try to seek a common position with the other autonomys, to strengthen. It's not bad for us, but bear in mind that among the seventeen autonomys there are many differences, lots of interests at stake, and interests clash, and they're not the same ones that you as advisor will have to defend that those who will have to defend the corresponding advisor, for example, from Extreme or Andalusia. So let them pine to get more advantages in principle it's not bad, but bear in mind that north, because it's fundamental, and it's fundamental because, being all autonomy, circumstances are very different. The structure of the property has nothing to do with it in the north, particularly in the north-west, that in the centre or south of the Peninsula, and the productive vocation is the same. So there's going to be a shock to interests, which is something that must be very present. As far as the changes are concerned, it seems good to see it as an opportunity to improve, but this improvement can only come, from our point of view, if new criteria are introduced, if the current model is modified or improved, because we understand — as we explained at the outset — that the current model is seriously hurting us by the circumstances that I will then repeat to it, but I think they are clear to everyone. Therefore, different measures are required for solutions that are also different, as is different from this country. Speaking of concepts, which you put several along your intervention on the table, there is one that is very important and that is the environment, the payment for environmental services. And what is not -- and I've already told you in the first intervention -- receipt is that our farmers and farmers are going to get less money, but the restrictive aspect they have to bear is getting bigger and bigger. That's an intelligence, so you can't face the environmental quality of what you were talking about. You have to go to a concept, you have to establish the concept of paying for environmental services, just like when you're in a disadvantaged area. You cannot develop to the maximum the restrictive aspects in the territory and for the citizens and then give no compensation. That's not receipt, and that's one of the fundamental elements that needs to be changed. I would like to — would time run out — before I finish leaving several questions, for example: under what budget is being negotiated? It was first mentioned what States are bringing about, but is the Spanish State willing to put more in place so that the perceivers do not directly fit in with the reduction of these European funds? Are the elements affecting the model contained? And we'd like to know what these new elements are that affect the model. For us, the key to this new CAP will be whether or not it changes or changes the current model, which from our point of view — and not only our own — harms farmers and farmers in the north-west, to the detriment of others who benefit, particularly those in the south. What steps have been taken to avoid a possible linear distribution once we are already inside this country? Because there we go back to the game of interests, and what benefits some parts of the Peninsula will harm many other areas of the Peninsula. I have several things left in the ink, but here they have gone out, and let's hope this isn't the last appearance to go out clarifying the different steps, as it is configured, as this new CAP is materializing, which is so important and so much impact will have on our rural environment neighbours. In short, we are again making a fencapé in which, apart from the budgetary negotiations — where we should perhaps consider putting more money in order not to receive our farmers and livestock — there are three aspects that we understand are key and that should be modified: one, which is the territorial base, which punishes us remarkably. Another, that you have to change the concept of who gets help; the help has to be for who works, not for the owners or retirees, with all due respect for both collectives. And then, the top of the aids, the distribution of the aids. We believe that the current 300,000 euro summit offers a lower distribution and a higher concentration of these funds coming from Europe. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u115	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u116	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you say this is not political, we have to come to an agreement. This is about politics, the very name of the CAP has already been said: the common agricultural policy. Europe -- we're saying a reality -- is going to have less budget, it's not going to keep these two pillars, theoretically there's going to be more environmental requirements, yes, although, as we said before, it's just a wash in the face of public opinion, because the model we're betting on, or because it's still the agro-industry for export, and this is totally incompatible with our territory. For the first time, direct payments, the European Commission will only set a few lines and targets in each state, and each of them will be able to say how it manages. In this case, in principle, I could have lived up a plan for the first pier of the CAP, but the Spanish State will tell you — you are telling them — that it is not. They call it the results-based approach, but we don't know how they're going to apply. The European Union says that this is a better subsidiarity, on the scale of the Member States, in order to bring the CAP closer to those responsible for its implementation on the ground. Today we know the position of the Ministry and the Council right now, and the Ministry of Agriculture is what marks the guidelines and the Council of the Rural Environment does not have any criteria. We could see it with the bus regulations, where it was impossible for your opinion to appear. What did the Ministry say on that day? Because they want the budget to be maintained. In practice, you already admit that it will decrease, not in co-financing at first level, more environmental measures — if that is true — and keep payments linked, especially in the dairy sector. And, look!, this strategic plan for the point one because it seems to us the truth that little. Both President Feijóo and you keep letting go. On the CAP agenda, Feijóo, the president, was betting on a 100% Community CAP which guarantees a living, active and sustainable rural environment. Man, I think that's what we all want and you here say we've been doing it a long time ago. And another thing: when they talk about a competitive and modern primary sector, they explain it well, because we've been competitive and modern for a long time now. In any case, no one talks about prices, no one talks about a fairer distribution of these direct payments; no one talks about the Greek holdings that have never entered the pier one's aid fund; no one talks about what can be done to ensure that they are on equal terms with the rest; no one talks about the review of European competition law, that the second pillar — rural development — is useless if there is no decisive wager from the Autonomous Community of Greece for local public services. And we're seeing in the past legislation how schools were closed and how medical services were closed. We are not talking about preserving the useful agrarian surface or the difficulties in obtaining land. Mr González was saying that we had to reach a consensus to go with a strong proposal on the common agricultural policy. You here said a series of proposals; we are hardly worth any. We also bring the proposals, we will also tell them, if we can reach an agreement, I hope we can reach a consensus, we are in the light years. In order to make agriculture and livestock an active profession, in addition to facilitating the incorporation of young people and girls, we need regulated markets to better pay farmers and farmers through public management measures and instruments that stabilize agricultural prices. The distribution of the CAP, said Mr Quiroga, remains very uneven between the farms and the Member States. The allocation of direct payments based on the surface concentrated these payments on regions and people. According to the Commission itself, 20% of farmers received 80% of direct payments, i.e. 80% of farmers received only 20%. It is essential to put on tops at European level and talk about who these aids are going to be. We don't want income insurance to fight the volatility of these prices that you said, Counselor, since they benefit insurance companies more than us, the glovers and the glovers. We also don't want to make most of the grants into financial instruments, which so much like this board, as well as the financial sector, with loans, guarantees and capital funds. The first pillar of the CAP is only the part of direct payments in the debate, but the first pillar has another part that is more important, which are market measures and which are measures that are never spoken of. In each CAP reform we speak to all levels of simplification. Gloves and geese, every time they talk about simplification, they start to tremble. You can now take advantage of this process and ask them, one by one, to see what processing they would do to make real simplification. We need to re-place prices at the heart of the common agricultural policy that cover production costs and remunerate work, to talk about what calculation system we want for the payments of the first pier. No farming, no rural life. This country has been trying for years to make farming a secondary activity in rural areas, but experience tells us that the whole interior of Galicia is closed if there is no agricultural and livestock activity. We need to develop measures to discourage the growth of production above measures, to call for trade agreements to destroy agriculture in the European Union and in third countries. You spoke at the beginning of these meetings that were held where agricultural organizations were represented. They don't agree with the process that's been going on since the Council. See there's inaction on your part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u118	...and there's opacity. And you said at first that the CAP was the union between agriculture and society. And the CAP where it has become is a union between governments and capital. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u119	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. After your second intervention, Mr Rivas, what is the proposal of the Block in relation to the position in the reform of the CAP? Look, I wanted to tell you -- that I don't know if it's worth it, because it's from one PP's garden, but, if you want cabbage, I have cabbage, which you said is not there -- that what I have now is Santiago's black tomato preserves; I also have roasts, Oimbra's peppers; with me, if necessary, cow's meat, blonde, meat and caldella's and cellite pigs. [[Murmurs.]] What are we talking about? And we drink, Mr. Rivas — and you too — wine of dazzling, juicy and blue wine. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What we need to be careful is in the defense of our products hosted by the designation of origin. And what we can't talk about here, in parliamentary headquarters, is that potatoes are embraced by the protected geographical indication of Galician, if they scratch them, they look French, Mr Rivas. We have to have some respect for our own, a little bit. [[Applause]] I'm talking about protected geographical indications, Mr. Rivas, I think.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u121	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u122	The thing is, Mr. Rivas, we're talking about our products like that and we have no more responsibility. Anyway... [[Murmurs.]] Well, we were also talking -- Mr. Rodríguez said -- that there was no job done, that there is no single posture. I wanted to show you the Sectoral Conference on Agriculture and Rural Development. [[Mr. González Vázquez shows a document.]] There is a common position on the European Commission initiative on the modernisation and simplification of the common agricultural policy, which has twenty-eight points. It is signed on 26 April 2017 — I will give it to each of the parliamentary groups if they do not have it. But at those twenty-eight points, Mr. Rodríguez, he talks about a lot of things he says in the CAP tide. You said before we had to control that international agreements did not affect agriculture — we said — both Greek and European as a whole. Well, he's here. See point 7 of this common position, in Spanish: "Commercial agreements must take into account the standards required by Community producers". It's just that he's here. We also welcome the need to take account of farmers and livestock farmers as the main players and recipients of the CAP. It is also said that the CAP has to contribute to making it possible to balance the level of agricultural income and the rest of the productive sectors. More food must be produced with less resources, precisely by the maintenance of the environment and therefore also by the rural environment. He talks about the financing of the CAP — because this is an important issue; you have not given him much importance, but I repeat to him that it is of fundamental importance — that, as a result of Brexit, the answer must be more Europe. The CAP must therefore be part of the financing of the European Union. We have to make an effort among all of us to make this so. It also speaks in point 11 of the CAP's direct payments should continue to play a very important role in the future, starting in 2020. Mr Quiroga, point 13, that the new CAP should allow direct payments to focus on farmers and farmers who are engaged in real agricultural activity. You look at the professionalism of farmers, which we've debated here many times, because you're always with the history of part-time agriculture. And yet I also have here — whether you have it in common or not — a PSOE document, national PSOE, not the PSdEG, which says: "For a more social, just and sustainable CAP", which is precisely there to pick up a bet on professional agriculture. [[Mr. González Vázquez shows a document.]] What are we talking about? This PSOE document — which you know as well as I am sure you know, but if I don't, I will bring it to you — matches in practice entirely with the Ministry's Sectoral Conference. So if we have a common posture, let's not come here to tell stories or simulate confrontations when we don't. What we have to do is defend ourselves together in front of Europe. I'm done. Mr. Rodríguez, man! is that trying to reach a negotiation, trying to reach an agreement saying that we are light years... man!, I would ask you to look at the light years as a lot of distance, I would ask you to approach the thing a little more. Because, at the end of all, ladies and gentlemen, what's here and those on this side of the bench are people we defend and support our rural, we believe in it and we are totally in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u123	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Close-up turn, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's true that sometimes we don't think about what we say and let go of anything and that can be harmful. Mr. Rivas, when you name the potato or any other Greek product, I would appreciate it if, when you have contrasted data, you bring them in, because there's an iron control so that these things don't exist. And you won't tell me that you don't, when the Ministry makes reference to Galicia when you do the checks on your products. That's reality, there's no other. [[Applause]] On the other hand, if we're talking about the boundary potato, how we can talk about any other product, look!, we're putting into question these 120 million kilograms of certified potato, covered under IXP, under Pataca da Limia. Well, it's true that the distribution sometimes moves us that ends a production and, if that production is finished and there's no more, it's opted for any other product, but never putting the boundary potato, Mr. Rivas. And if not, what you have to do: complain! [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Tell me what the distribution is. I don't think we're going to hesitate to do the inspections that are being carried out all the time. [[Murmurs.]] Having said this, we can't say, either, that sometimes it's a joke here, eh!, every time someone says they don't find a Greek product. Like you don't find any Greek product? But let's see, we're laughing! We have to buy the product from Galicia, what happens is that quality has to be paid a little more and sometimes even our pocket hurts and we don't. Pass it with the potato, pass it with the wine, pass it with the milk. And that's the reality, Mr. Rivas. If they put us in a camera from time to time, let's all get colored. And we must take care that this does not happen to us, especially if we are Members and if we represent ourselves. That's the reality we have there. But we have the designations of origin, which, of course, is the way. We have protected geographical indications. We have the warranty marks, which we also control. And now there's the Decree of Food Craftsmanship, to end what, like the house, is good, but we pay little. No, no, no, no. As with the house, it's good and we have to pay more. And that's the pedagogy we have to do among all the Greeks to support each other. That's the reality. This is no longer the first time I hear you that the different funds coming to Galicia end up in cement and I don't know how many more things. Look, every now and then the cement is needed. I told him yesterday that I was in a holding; that exploitation has been more than forty years; it is a marriage that exceeds 50 years, no more, that it incorporates a child, but that he has another 16-year-old that his line is that, but that the sorting room is terrible, why? because they haven't made investments in forty years, and now they're going to make an investment of 300,000 euros. You know why? Because they need well-being for them too. Because instead of being sorting from ten to ten cows, they want to sort from twenty to twenty; and because they want to expand and, instead of having 100 cows, they want to put one hundred and fifty in order to live four people. That's the reality. So let's not defend the aids that go to cement, or to modernization or to new technologies, because they're welcome! It's pretty complicated to get up at 5 in the morning to order that, above, instead of sorting from ten to ten, let's do it five to five, or get the wind on one side or another. I mean, cement, Mr. Rivas, it's necessary. [[Applause]] Having said this, and because if you keep talking about sophor, there are not two or three or four, there are eleven, and there had to be a lot more, of course. And I would tell the President of Parliament that, from time to time and in extra hours, in overtime, some excursions are organized so that you will see the sulphur that works, as is the case with Silleda. I invite them to go there and we'll talk a little bit about Galicia and the effort they've made a hundred thirty owners and that they're already on the first cut of pines, and I hope they've still paid them a lot better. That's the reality. That's the invitation, isn't it? Children have extra-school activities, Members can have extra-parliamentary activities and sometimes it is good to go along Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] To thank, of course, Mr Quiroga for his intervention. Indeed, interests clash between the different autonomous communities. Now, the main thing is that Spain has allies. At first, tell them that you've been alone with the minister; right now he's no longer alone and therefore he has Portugal on his side, he has France on his side; he has Germany on his side; that is to say, now there's a very complicated role to carry out certain synergies, he's moving to the Ministry, and to look for allies, because each country of course is a vote, and the needs of the countries of the north differ greatly from those of the south. So, now it's about making a union, making a pineapple, and so we've got what we're all after, which is funding and a strategic line that's an evolution and not a great revolution. Territorial base; I agree. Who gets it?; of course. That's why I'm going on the line that it's crucial that the active farmer receives it, the one who lives in agriculture. The one who can support half a day in a field with the other also needs it, but we have to keep defining these areas. What about the tip of help? Of course. And that there's a better deal. And in the case of Mr. Rodríguez Estévez, it says, we have no criteria. Mr. Rodríguez, you really are the losers and farmers with the criteria of your group; there they do have a terrible mess. Then at last Mr. Rivas was asked why we were being voted on and told me he knew me more. Well, they'll have to pay a lot for the rest, because if only you and I know why if you vote for the People's Party and why you're ruling, Mr. Rivas, we have a tremendous privilege that I didn't know. But, well, at the end of the day, the Greeks and the Greeks are smart, and they are trusted by certain groups and in the last elections they decided to trust some. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Having said that, the conclusions are as follows. We are working from the Galician Union for a future strong CAP, which retains the same budget that we currently have, 190 million euros. We reject any possibility of renationalization. Two pillars are fundamental especially for Galicia, which we have the largest number of farms, both in milk and in meat. We advocate a CAP to maintain the number of farmers and farmers with a decent income level. Farmers and livestock are not NGOs. And actually, they're not unique and exclusively for environmental care, it's one more facet we have to pay for. It is also necessary to redesign market management mechanisms with actions at European level. And here someone said we weren't talking about the market. Of course we're talking about the market, and for that, the value chain is regulated at the national level, but it was of little use to us if we didn't do it at the Community level. And from here, praise the decision of the Council of Ministers, which on April 16 began with a text to regulate that value chain. The generational rebound is fundamental. The figure of the active farmer is essential. Of course, to contemplate the peculiarities of our community, such as the dispersion of the population, the size of the farms. I'm amazed every time someone says we opt for big industries and macro-industries. But we don't know Galicia? But are we kidding? The difference is, for them to be competitive, of course they have to gain dimension, and there we can't stop them. And if, instead of living two people, they're living four, of course they don't do it with a hundred heads of cattle. But, speaking of that, also of those who are even smaller, who are mountains and with natural limitations, and by them we bet. And we bet on the production of healthy and safe foods, quality foods, and there Galicia can indeed be organoleptically differentiated in all areas. And, of course, a maximum of animal and genetic well-being, in which we are already being leaders. Also for a CAP that seeks a healthy diet, with programs to promote the consumption of milk, fruit and vegetables. We are the third most important community in designations of origin, we are the first territorially speaking, and we have to keep moving forward. And simplification, of course. We need administrative simplification. Finally, it is essential that the current budget should continue to be maintained. We have some common minimums that maintain a single market and a strong market, and it is true that the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, has proposed in Brussels that he should come closer from Spain to European budgets to cover the hole that Brexit will leave and thus save the CAP and cohesion funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u125	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point, to the point of the motion. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the provision of health care in Sergas in the area of health management of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u126	This motion was tabled an amendment by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, and to formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u127	Thank you, President. Today we must remember, at least at the beginning, that even today workers and workers at the Monforte Hospital were starting an indefinite strike, in the ears of the administration, the Health Council, of the continuing demands of health care workers for the already extreme needs they have in the different hospital units. In order for the staff to strike—and, of course, a strike with minimal services that insult professionals, more than 100%, and which today have been unilaterally modified—I think that in order to get to that situation they must already be in a desperate situation, and therefore go ahead with the support that has been given to them from our group, and today we would also like to remind them in this intervention. [[Applause]] We are bringing this motion today to put forward the proposals relating to the previous inquiry discussed in the last plenary session, in the last plenary session, in which we have asked the Health Adviser on the matter so serious that In Marea has denounced the moment he has met him, which is the privatization of health services in the Coruña, directly health services. The counsellor appeared in the past full not giving any sort of explanation, nor did he answer most of the questions raised to him from our group. Today we are here with a concrete proposal, a proposal that calls for the privatization of health services to be launched. And, of course, in the previous plenary, our parliamentary group was demonized, trying to move that what was being done was normal, that it was a health concert contract that was done in the usual way, which, of course, scandalized the population, etc., etc., etc.; the matraca continues that we hear about health and in many other aspects when we denounce the privatizations of the public system. The reality isn't that. They said they would touch everything, put the scissors in everything, Mr. Mariano Rajoy said, except for pensions, education and health. And we're looking at how, in fact, they're probably the cutest aspects of the system. I'm not going to say anything else about the debate we've given this morning about public pensions. They said they could privatize everything in public health, except for the white coat, the health service. And it's false, because this contract is a direct privatization of health services. The same thing happened when we denounced privatization, which happened to electromedicine. They said nothing happened and then what do we have? Report from the Board of Auditors, which has since stated that this privatisation was not to be given, a privatization that was also failed, with a contract that has been breached from the start of the company and which remains despite the error of privatizing the service. Nothing was going to happen either with the privatization of the clinical management areas and it had to be the professionals who went out on the street to turn him around and get the Health Council to stop that privatization. There was nothing wrong with privatizing the cleaning of hospitals, and again the negative report of the Board of Auditors, which says that the Galician Board had no prior reports that it was recommended or authorized or that it was allowed to move that it was better to privatize that service. The Board of Auditors really says that there is no savings on the privatization of cleaning services in hospitals, and yet there are fewer professionals and there are continually problems with cleaning in different centers. There was nothing wrong with any of them, we were not right, but it turns out there were others who came to give us the reason. They also say they don't spend anymore in private, but it's fake. These are the data from the Last Exercise's Board of Auditors, from the previous exercise, and are all the budgetary exercises to give your argument back. Not true: 0,6 % more in the last controlled exercise, 1.4 % more in the previous controlled exercise. Neither was anything wrong with the privatization of the sterilization of the Galego Health Service, and, after publishing it in the Official Journal of the European Union, they had to go back to the protests of the professionals. They weren't going to privatize health services. Here we are, gentlemen, dealing in a motion with direct privatization for the first time, in a wide range of services, of health services. And no, concerts are not the same as health privatization. I don't like health concerts, but of course what is being done here is not exactly the same -- we said in the previous plenary -- neither administratively nor at the political level, which is the relevant and what brings us here. And yes, it is indecent to contract with private health having plants closed in public health, whole plants closed in the EOXI of the Crown: the Materno, Abente y Lago and other units that are closed, on other occasions loose beds as well. And the Health Counsellor seemed to him that few million would be used in this privatization -- he said the other day. I think it's a real indecency. Few 97 million euros? Do you know how many professionals could be hired with that amount? CHUAC, 2018 budget on the approved budget of the Galician Union. CHUAC has a staff budget of €136.6 million; 97 million is 71.5 % of the budget spent on public staff at the University Hospital Complex of Coruña. A four-year contract. Don't you want to do it in four years? Let's split up between four. Four gives 18%. What you're going to spend on privatization is 18% of what you spend on public personnel. How many contracts of public professionals could you make with that amount, opening the closed plants, not to have to hire the private one? How much? How many professionals? Now they'll say there's no professionals available, oh! We've been reporting professional problems for years. And today I had to be here the health counsellor, who is not because he's on the International Health Council, to talk about his poor planning and why there are no health professionals now to replace the deficiencies of pediatricians, anesthetists, doctors and doctors, nursing, etc. Because they haven't planned, because they're bad managers. And now they want to sell us that this privatization is necessary when really with this money you could hire public professionals to publicly cover the public service to which citizens and citizens are entitled. Is it a round business? Let's say it in the previous plenary session. All we have to do is ask for administrative clauses, technical prescriptions, for the recruitment of the service. Page 8 — let's tell you the other day — rejected processes. By setting an example: "This concept will be billed when, once the patient has been consulted, it does not operate for whatever reason. The rate of the discarded process will be cancelled if you do any tests or consult the other specialty." It's a round business, the private ensures you have patients to intervene, to attend. And besides, if then, for whatever reason, they can't take care of it, they're going to bill. It's a round business, of course. And you just have to keep reading the conditions -- also on page 8 -- "In the event that a patient intervened, operated, by doctors from the Galician Health Service is able to perform a surgery, but, because of some circumstances it could not be operated, 50% of the rate of the surgical process in question will be dropped." He always wins the private. Private selects. Even if the patient doesn't operate, they'll charge the same. And yet no one other public professional is hired to cover this contract. It's the nails, eh! They are published on the contract platform. As they're public and they can read, they can't deny what they write. Or we have the scandal, which we've already said the other day, and it's on page 8 itself, also concerning vascular surgery — which I still want to know if they're going to have the same poor attention as the patients in the Pontevedra complex unfortunately intervened in the Quiron with a much older technique and without being warned: "The tariff does not include the special diagnostic procedures that are expressly marked as billable concepts in Annex I." I mean, they're charged separately. It's all business, it's all business! The Health Counsellor thinks that EUR 97 million is a small fee. How many contracts could be made! I'm going to finish, I've only got one minute left. Forced mobility, another business. Don't I have professionals? Well, now we're left with the Galego Health Service. Alas! but it is that, during the counsellor's intervention in the inquiry, at first it was for any intervention and then it was for when works were done in the CHUAC. How many works are you going to do at CHUAC these four years? How many works are you going to do at CHUAC in the four years? To see if works are done on closed plants and once open the plants of Materno and Abente y Lago. And, of course, you just have to keep reading at the rest of the nails and see how these conditions make business easier. And the worst of all, the worst of all -- which is also an element that the counselor didn't seem relevant to either -- is that they take over the most premature heights. We have already said in the previous plenary that there are patients who do not really need to be in a hospital and must go to their home, and there are others who do not. What's indecent is that you score more precisely those companies that will offer the most premature highs. But the worst of all, surely, is the precedent that this feels, because the People's Party has learned that privatization must be done in pieces, step by step, little by little. Because that of Vigo's PCI didn't go too well — it could have gone worse, the truth — but now they're getting out little by little. And the reality is, if they do it in the Coruña, what prevents them from carrying out the same procedure in the rest of the EOXI? We, among other things -- they have it in writing, and I finish now -- what we essentially ask for is that, since the proposal is not yet dealt with, if this proposal is withdrawn and, of course, public professionals are hired to cover the public service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u129	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Group we clearly want to join the support of professionals at the Monforte Hospital, who once again demonstrate that this system works thanks to professionals and despite managers, who systematically deny the realities despite the fact that all professionals — even some who would never expect from the People's Party — are releasing information to their face. And it's that the professionals of this system know the system and they're the first ones that are demanding that we have strong, powerful, very, very necessary structural needs that nobody seems to be taking into account. And, to this end, we're going to support this motion. We think it comes into what would be very, very interesting solutions for the system. Obviously, they wouldn't completely solve the problems, but they would help to improve part of our health system. We support her, yes, with some doubt that she can be approved. I'm going to apologize to En Marea's voice that expresses these doubts and some skepticism about the future that we can expect from this motion. Yesterday was the day of the book, and Carlos Casares said — I hope not to quote badly — that "Scepticism is a medal that should not be taken very close to the heart." In the light of that, we are going to maintain the illusion that it can be adopted, because, in fact, it has a very interesting question to approve, and to vote and debate on this in terms of health policy — politics, it seems that today we talked about the common agricultural policy and we were told that there was no need to make politics; finally, the fungus pilots are already too much —. In terms of health policy, there's one thing that's very interesting, and that's a very reasonable motion. I know that's sometimes out of the argument of the debate. It's reasonable because we also share that there is a worrying obscurantism about the management and efficiency of health management, especially with regard to the management of public resources, public budget and its use. We don't just see him. We have made many initiatives in this Parliament, and in particular on the question before this motion, some warning about what the Board of Auditors says about Sergas' economic management. To quote it again, because it gives the feeling that there are sometimes things that are important to quote them several times, says the Board of Auditors — which is not an organ of communist China or revolutionary Cuba —: "It is still resorting to the system of authorisations of use for the recruitment of certain benefits, distorting the nature of this figure whose use should be exceptional". It should be of an exceptional nature, a question which the Socialists reaffirm and which we agree with, should be of an exceptional nature. And he adds: "As a general rule, there are no specific requirements for the management of the benefit in subscribed concerts. In particular, the conditions of resources or the quality of care are not regulated or control indicators are established," or, what is the same, the concert with private health, which should be a conjunctural issue, becomes structural by political will. And in addition, that concert does not guarantee the same quality as it does. So what we have is a system that is making it easier for the care quality of the Greeks and the Greeks not to be the same in situations than in others. And it's doing it continuously, structurally. The truth is, it gives the feeling that bad planning and diversion of games... we remember that about 300 million euros have been changed from games in the last quarter of last year. They go from staff to pharmaceuticals, then they go from pharmaceuticals to other derivatives, then from personnel to the continence fund, which is used again for personnel... they move from one side to another. They're doing a trillery, and in the end, where's the ball? Where's the ball? The ball always ends in private hands. You are tremendously efficient so that, as soon as something cloudy appears, you get out of the public budget money and appear in private profits. It's funny, a casual coincidence, but it always happens. They're very diligent to divert and not efficient to attract, but very diligent to divert public budget. There's never an opacity that ends well; at least, good for those who defend the public system. Some people probably think that ending well are things like this that happened in the Coruña. Something happens in the EOXI of the Coruña, the one who spent 400,000 euros paying for posters that they put on "public." And this is the same councillor who paid, for example — to quote — EUR 121 million for a contest in which ambulances were labeled before the nail went out. That's right, meeting the criteria they defended before, staying at home, it was for a friend, staying at home. Because we have to defend the product of the house. Finally, from our position, we will support this initiative. We believe that it has little future, because we believe that poor budget planning, which ultimately always benefits them, is quite intentional. It's intentional to do the wrong thing so that in the turbidity it ends up in the same hands. From our group, we recommend that they move back in this policy; otherwise, they're about to have a "constellelirus interruptus." But it's possible that some of you are what they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. On the side of the Galician Nationalist Block, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u131	Good afternoon. In the previous plenary session the councillor left evidence that he had the road map very clear. And I also explained to him that they removed the facet too clearly, that they have the rhetorical speech of defense of the public system, of the public health system, but that the real roadmap and put public health in the tray to the private employer to increase his business. And little by little they go about doing it because no more concealment, and for that they are taking their steps decisively. For that they have been taking the legislative steps, for that they have approved the Law of Guarantees, for that they have made the amendment of the Law of Health and for that they work shamelessly from within the Public Administration as good Trojan horses, from within the system itself. With this framework agreement in the EOXI of the Coruña, they bring down the front and give evidence of what we have already denounced, since 2013, when they passed that Law of Assurance which was to give a legal framework to that derivation of public resources towards private health. And what used to be done like this, a little bit of cover, in smaller contracts, to those who weren't easy to follow up on, because now they're doing it to the big one. On January 10th, the regulation of that Law of Assurance comes into force, and from that moment on, the fact is that they put the accelerator on and are at the speed of the cruise. And this first framework agreement is a good proof of that. The EOXI of the Coruña is that tip of the spear of what the other EOXI will unfortunately be, who will follow the path of this EOXI. We are going to support this motion which today presents here in Marea because it is clear that nothing good reports for public health this type of contract has already been discovered. It's a privatization already with bigger words and, in addition, a promotion of low care quality without any kind of complex. It's a kind of privatization of a weight-to-weight health. In this tender, on the one hand, the budget is valued — i.e. the low budget — and on the other hand the number of benefits. I already asked the counsellor the other day, and he didn't answer, where's the quality of care. Because there is no assessment, control, guarantee in the benefit, and, of course, the only one that gets stuck there, on the one hand, is 50% down in the budget and, on the other hand, the number of benefits. Of course, the question why we should start is whether public health — in this case the EOXI of the Coruña — is not in a position to make all these kinds of benefits that are being offered to private health care, that would be the first question. Or the steps Sergas has taken so that the public health of the EOXI of the Coruña is in a position to provide these benefits that are in dispute with private health. And the answer is that you haven't taken any steps so you can lend them, but, quite the contrary, you've taken every step so that you're not in a position to lend them, you've taken every step so that both installations and staff are not in a position to lend them, in order to be able to justify, theoretically, that this invitation to tender is needed. Because, indeed, is there any justification for 25 beds in Abente and Lago? There's absolutely no justification. There's no justification for closing a whole plant in the Materno, theoretically for fixing, for bathing, for adapting it to the needs and then for not doing those works or opening again. I mean, there's no justification for public infrastructure being scrapped while hiring private health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u133	...except the justification that this is the roadmap of the People's Party and that all the steps taken are on the way to deteriorating public health to give business to private health. Only that is the roadmap, with which we will support this initiative. Of course, we will not tire of bringing to this Parliament the times when it will be necessary to denounce your road map, yes, sir, each and every time you need it. Because you'll come here and do as you consider, but of course it won't be with silence or consent of the Galician Nationalist Block. You don't have the slightest doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Solla, that you speak of "matraca", with which we have heard here in the last five or six years, have courage! Then, on the subject of demagogy and the numerical calculation he made of the staff contract's money, it gives the feeling that with the staff he solves. Some of that expense should be personal, but there's other expenses that you're obvious. But, well, it's the same. I believe, of course, that you haven't chosen the best time to try to wear down the Government with this theme. Of course, the requirement for the procurement of the framework agreement by open procedure with several health service providers in the Coruña health management area is no different from any other autonomous communities. And as for coming to talk about supposed privatization, I'll explain to you why it's not the best time to talk about it. The councilman appeared in the full past and I think he gave explanations and clarified in an unquestionable and unquestionable way this plea. But he made it clear at the show and you then interpelered. He told you about European legislation, he told you about changing the new recast text of the contract law, but that doesn't matter to you. During my intervention in the appearance, I recalled the number of concerteds that the Director General gave in Commission 5th, 2.2 per cent, which seems to forget it all the time. In the Coruña contract itself, in the Coruña framework agreement itself, 18 million out of 662, is 2,7 % — in case a hundred percent of the contract had been spent. And if you add up what you have to put as the estimated value of the contract, which is 23 million for possible extensions and modifications, it would at most be 3.5%. I believe that we should no longer talk about privatization, but you are committed to the delivery of the health that the People's Party makes to private companies. But we have more data. The Councillor for Health of the Union of Andalusia — I told you here — has already said that they are only 3.5 percent dedicated to the concert, 60 percent more than Galicia, for example, and there does not rule the People's Party. We also recall in the past the contract and bid by the Government of Castile-A Mancha — where the People's Party does not govern — of the colon cancer screening program, for 14 million euros. I suppose the U.S. advisors can rule there -- in Castela-La Mancha you rule, Mrs. Solla, and they have advisors -- these advisors would resign or ask for resignation, they would leave... I don't know, they'd put out shirts in full, I understand they would, right? Of course, Galicia, along with Aragon, Rioxa and Navarre, are the only four autonomous communities that have this service, the exclusive property of the program itself, and, in addition, for the exclusive use of it. I also saw that Galicia and the Basque Country were the only two autonomous communities where they dropped the number of private health workers between the years 2015 and 2016, which are the last of the data. And you're still growing private here. The councillor showed the latest report by the Federation of Public Health Associations — not suspected of having anything to do with the People's Party, or much less — that Galicia was in the middle group in the degree of privatization, and that, by the way, it had dropped from 2014 to 2018 from fourth to eighth place. But you're still privatizing. But we have more examples: in the Valencian Community, the government of socialists with Compromise, supported by Podemos, has just bid the service of diagnostic studies through magnetic resonance imaging. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the holding of the resonances of that autonomous community has been lawful for two years, and extendable to a third party. Paragraph 3.2 of the administrative clauses states: "In the calculation of the total amount estimated, any form of option should be taken into account and any extensions of the contract, as provided for in Article 88 of the recast text." This budget for magnetic resonance imaging is more than 15 million, almost 16 million, but the total estimated price is 27 million euros. I mean, it doesn't differ much from the Coruña contract, and by the way, it's paralyzed by the Central Court of Resources because it's wrong. Mrs Oltra, vice-president, said on the Compromis website: "We will return to the public system of magnetic resonances due to the lack of control of the concession." Of course he didn't tell the truth, because they called him back. Extremadura has just bid the home teleassistation contract — but, of course, it is not privatized there, it is outsourced. And the counselor says, "The goal he pursues is permanence in the habitual sphere of the recipient's life, avoiding uprooting, ensuring immediate intervention in crisis and improving autonomy and quality of life." That's externalization, that's not privatization. And, of course, I don't want to talk here about the Extreme waiting list paper, which says people on the waiting list are very good because those who have money go to private, and it's a way that someone might repent and not operate. That's in a document from the Extreme Unit. [[Applause]] We're against it and we're not going to support your motion, because we think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u137	...—ending, President—that the bidding of services in the area is necessary for proper health care, is fully in line with existing legislation, and we have explained that it is used in all autonomous administrations for even worse topics, such as breast cancer. The rest of the motion has stopped talking to you, and it doesn't give me time either. I think we'll talk in the next motion, because it looks pretty much like it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u139	Thank you, President. I appreciate the support of the opposition groups. We will accept the amendment by the PSdeG, which also extended the request for information, indeed, never met by the People's Parliamentary Group. I liked a program of José Antonio Labordeta, a country in the backpack. And the spokesperson of the People's Party has just gone through Spain looking for contracts with which to compare the privatization of health services in the Coruña, but he didn't have a second to talk about the requirements of administrative clauses. A pity! Don't worry, we'll once again satisfy your need to be able to have time to discuss this aspect, and we'll bring this and other initiatives back to plenary. The reality is, you didn't make any reference to anything at all. And I think it's a very serious situation, actually, very serious. The reality is, on paper, what we have is a round business for the private, a round business. And it's not any kind of demagogy. You can divide those 97.5 million even into four -- I told you, in case you think it's not fair to compare it with a single year -- and yet it gives 18% of what is spent on health care. What kind of demagogy is that? It's numbers. I believe that there — and having the nails published — you will not contradict what the nails say, the amounts that your Health Council says. But, of course, there's no justification. So, I thought, the truth, that, with his intervention and the evil that seemed to him such privatizations in other autonomous communities, you would support this motion. Because it is a motion that, in addition to actually asks for other points that are not baladis, as it is, of course, that special care is given specifically but also the primary of the Galician Health Service, specifically in the area of the Coruña, of public professionals. We cannot understand — and I repeat that it seems indecent — that we can sign a contract with the private having whole plants — I insist — closed in public. It's not normal, it's not acceptable. We have a whole in Abente and Lago, we have another whole in Materno. And we usually have more closed beds. How you can hire! Not a few services. It is in the annex. They're a lot of interventions, general surgery, traumatology, consultations of all kinds. Not a few services. You don't think that much is enough. They're probably used to handling bigger amounts of money. Not to us, it doesn't seem much to us, and privatization, of course, seems a shame to us. Of course, to be asked here to comply with Parliament's Rules of Procedure and to respond to requests in the course of Article 9 of the non-structural waiting lists and that you vote against is already the norm. But, of course, it seems like an indecency to us. And you will now be allowed the license to speak of the Extreme waiting lists. But you don't even publish them! You don't even publish them! And today they will vote against the initiative. I'd like them to at least have had some shame. Because at least the rest of us are embarrassed when we hear of making a country in the backpack and we have no ability to analyze the privatization contracts of our Galician Health Service. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the central government in relation to the loss of purchasing power of pensions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u141	This motion has been tabled as an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u142	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, too, to our guests here today. Public pensions for men and women in this country, for all men and women in this country, are one of the great works of the Socialist Party, one of the great works of which I feel proud, of which I am proud, Mr. Puy. [[Applause]] Get out here and prove it's not like that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today the Socialists bring a motion which will be debated in this Parliament. And therefore each of the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to retire. And you too, those of the People's Party, and to prove here in this gallery what your ideology is about one of the basic pillars of the welfare state, about public pensions. Public pensions in Galicia have 761,100 people — data from the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, March 2018 data. The half-guest pension does not reach 790 euros. That is, the average of the Galician pension is 144 euros less than the average of the Spanish pension. And Galicia occupies number 18 of 19 — including all autonomous communities and Ceuta and Melilla — in the amount of the average pension. It's just behind the stremadura. With this data, i.e., with an average of 790 euros, pensioners and pensioners in Greece helped their families at times when the crisis hit harder; with 790 euros that served for children, parents, grandchildren and to avoid the social exclusion of many families. The People's Defender himself, in memory of 2017, highlights the transcendental role of the pension system during the years of the crisis. Thus, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, while the Government of the State, of the People's Party, and the Government of the Galician Union, of the People's Party, were concerned only about counting accounts, they were not concerned about caring for the worst people who were going through it, they were not concerned about preventing the loss of more than 85,000 people in the eight years since Galicia, from 2009 to 2017, from being lost to more than 85,000 people, they didn't worry about preventing the homes with all their members in unemployment from rising to 16,300. And they didn't worry either of them to prevent the income-free Greek homes from rising by 15,200, and in many cases our country's pensioners, with these 790 euros on average, who prevented those people living in those income-free homes from being on the street and not being economically or socially excluded. The PP, during the crisis, instead of targeting the welfare system, has committed a series of regressive reforms that directly attack people's dignity. They passed the Royal Decree Law 16/2012, of pharmaceutical co-op. They therefore reduced, at best, EUR 8 that purchasing power of Galician pensioners and pensioners. They passed continuous decrees by which they eliminated drugs from the Social Security Pharmaceutical Catalogue, paying the full cost of that medicine. So these nightmares in some cases assumed that there were people who had to consider whether to eat or buy drugs. Is that a lie, too? They passed the Royal Decree Law 5/2013, tightening the conditions for access to retirement, and, by the end, a unilateral adoption of the Law 23/2013, regulatory reform of the sustainability factor and the rate of revalorization of the public social security pension system; a law that approves without consensus, without respect for the agreements reached in 1995 by the Toledo Pact, which was adopted unanimously by virtually all political groups and with the approval of the People's Party. They approve, as always, and then fail to comply. [[Applause]] The Toledo Pact already in its prologue states that the social security system must be agreed within a context of dialogue and search for the widest possible consensus; an agreement to exclude the party struggle in order to ensure its effectiveness and sustainability. It's a permanent adaptation of the system of protection to the reality it acts on. 21 recommendations have been established within the Commission on the Toledo Pact, and I will simply highlight the most important: separation and clarification of funding sources, maintenance of purchasing power and improvement of pensions, creation of the social security reserve fund and strengthening the principle of contribution as a basic element for the preservation of the financial balance of the system. This system allowed the Social Security Reserve Fund for the seven years of President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero — a socialist president — to increase in seven years to EUR 66,815 million. But in the five years of Mr. Mariano Rajoy's government, it's reduced to nearly 59,000 million euros, leaving us at present at 8,095 million euros. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a chart.]] That's your data, that's your balance. [[Murmurs.]] The People's Party perceives pensions as spending, it doesn't perceive them as a right; it doesn't see a right in public pensions. You know that the financial balance of pensions, income and expenses comes, on the one hand, by income, by contributions, and on the other hand, by expenses, which are pensions. Therefore, the rebalance can come by reducing expenses or increasing income. The People's Party always adjusts by cutting, by the expense; that is, by cutting pensions. You don't care about the impoverishment of pensioners and you don't care about the progressive loss of the purchasing power of pensioners. Since then, the deficit in Social Security 2011-2017 is rising to almost €18 billion, and is mainly caused by the precarious conditions of employment approved by the People's Party, approved by the PP, a decrease in social security income on the basis of contributions, the freezing of the minimum wage — hence, moving to the minimum rates of contribution — by reducing wages caused by labour market reform of the year 2012 — therefore, a direct impact also on the basis of contributions — by establishing flat rates or by reducing social contributions and other income-mining measures that were assumed solely by Social Security. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows another graph.]] And it was these and not other policies that generated the instability of the system. It is also due to an insufficient increase — which I said earlier — since the Reserve Fund was practically charged to a reduction of almost EUR 59,000 million. The translation of these policies is that even today, even if the number of taxpayers increases by 1%, the contribution income is below -- that is, still at 1.6% less. Something will have to see the typology of work that is being created thanks to the policies of the People's Party. Now, look, the increase in the number of the quota reductions contained was assumed directly by the social security budget rather than by the State budget. You know that this law means that the counting of pensions that take place from 2019 will decrease, it will affect the revaluation system, establishing a mode of updating the accounts that imposes a loss of purchasing power on pensioners and hence their impoverishment. They know perfectly well that in Article 7, where pension revaluation is modified, it breaks down prices, which means that in positive inflation scenarios the loss of that purchasing power will be assured. They adopt a 0.25 sustainability factor, which will assume that with 2% inflation — a goal set not by the Socialists but by the European Central Bank — pensioners in ten years will lose 17.5% and in twenty years they will lose 30%. The reality is that when you talk about freezing pensions on the part of socialists -- you have given them data, data that are published in the Ministry of Labour and Social Security -- I tell you: minimum retirement pension without a dependent spouse, widow's pension for older than 65 years or younger with disabilities, compulsory old-age and disability insurance pensions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u145	...and non-contributory pensions — already confirmed, Mr. President — these pensions were not frozen during the period when we governed the socialists, with the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, while the minimum retirement pension with married couples in charge during the seven years of Rodríguez Zapatero increased to EUR 257.11 plus a month. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u147	Seven years! In seven years with Mariano Rajoy increased by 46.90 euros, i.e. less than the fifth. This is reality, and this is data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u149	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u150	You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u151	Good afternoon. I'm going to leave the merit of the existence of pensions to the working class exclusively, without taking all the men and women of the Socialist Party as well who fought for them. [[Applause]] Well, jokes aside, over the past few months, we've seen how the ones and our elders are once again walking on the street giving us a lesson in dignity, mobilization and their ability to respond, and undoubtedly the younger generations we have much to learn from them, as on their day of returned migrants. As I said, they have filled the streets of our country in defense of decent pensions, and surely in that desire, in that anger that has been channeled through these mobilizations, one of the drops that filled the glass is that with the arrival of this 2018 they have seen as, despite the global rise in living standards, although, for example, the level of budgets and the collection have increased, they see how their pensions increased in a miserly percentage. In this sense, the Socialist Party takes up points 1 and 2 of the derogation from the sustainability factor and the need to claim the increase in public pensions in accordance with the IPC forecasts to introduce corrective factors. We agree on these two questions. And, more specifically, we also want to take this intervention to warn of something that we have been insisting on, which is that the application towards 2019 of this sustainability factor will lead to a new cut to pensions and, therefore, an increase in social emergency, not only in this sector of the population, but also, when we are talking about our pensioners — unfortunately, seeing the economic fabric in our country — we are talking about much more, of entire families, which unfortunately depend on the pensions of our seniors, who support many homes because of the abusive policies of the People's Party, which has taken advantage of the economic crisis to consolidate cuts and to consolidate losses of rights and steps back. It is obvious that the purchasing power of pensions has decreased in recent years, and this is the path they have predestined for them. In this sense, economists estimate that, with the progressive depreciation of pensions in 2050, they would be between 30% and 40% of their value loss, which is not only unfair, but is absolutely unsustainable for any society. However, since the BNG we want to stress today also on a matter that seems relevant to us, without taking any importance to that sustainability factor, without, of course, removing the concern about non-cooperation with the IPC and those references; it is not important — as I say — to these issues. We understand that we need to make a deeper reflection, that in this battle we are playing a lot more and that, in fact, the People's Party itself is taking advantage of this issue to place the single and exclusively discussion on the rise of the IPC and on the question of State budgets, and in an absolutely interested way. I remember that this same weekend a state spokesman of the People's Party was going out on a news report commenting that what they should be doing and pensioners is expressing themselves to thank the Government what appears collected in the 2018 Budget Project, which is already an absolute perversion and the lack of the slightest shame. We want to make sure that we also have to focus on the bottom line, on what kind of work we have in our country and what kind of jobs we have. And indeed, the best defense of the public pension system goes through the recovery of the rights that were stolen from the working class with the alibi of the crisis. And for that we have tabled a replacement amendment to the third paragraph which proposes to derogate, to begin, labour reforms, those of the People's Party, and we feel that also those of the Socialist Party, which for us is also a step forward in the devaluation of working class conditions, and that after that the Government of the People's Party has just finished. In this sense, we are collecting from that third point a number of reforms and work counter-reforms which, in our view, should be repealed as the first step towards changing this situation. And also at a second point, we insist that a new labour and social legislation must be passed that destabilizes not only lost rights, but that it should cover up the new needs that left this economic crisis in the face of the wild consequences it has given us. This aspect for us is fundamental and without it all the complementary things that we have to introduce on pension matters — which I no longer have time to report — because they will be insufficient and will be a simple patch. So, regardless of whether the Socialist Group accepts this amendment or not, we will support this initiative because we understand that it is time to go further and also place the first floor of the speech in which we are not only going to derogate the sustainability factor, in which we are not only worthy to address the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u153	...of the revaluation of pensions, but we want a lot more and we want it already. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u155	We have almost lost sight of the times we have talked about pensions in this Parliament, and this means nothing pejorative. We will continue to speak, and we will do so because the battle of pensions is a struggle between the common people and the great international financial powers. And the People's Party has already retreated — Mrs Rumbo was asked to withdraw — when in 2013 she decided to reform the pension system by condemning pensioners to a present, but above all to a future of misery. Mr Tellado said in the debate in the morning about our bill — which he also asked to overturn the counter-reforms of pensions — that we will look at the future, and we will indeed do so. And that's why it's necessary for us and it's urgent to derogate this counter-reform of pensions. We therefore fully agree with the motion presented by the Socialist Party today. And, in fact, we ourselves present a motion in the same sense in the full past, and even today also a bill that unfortunately hit the People's Party wall, deafening to the social demands of decent pensions, which are claims, by the way, backed by a legal framework that only violates at different levels. We have already told you in the full past, they are constitutionalists in part-time, because they have advocated through the practice multiple articles of the Constitution and, among them, the famous article 50, concerning decent pensions. So we tell them that they claim to be patriots of 155, but actually, what they are is selling patriots of 135. And in view of that model of so-called austerity, of social cut, there is social answer. It is obvious, it is unsatisfied, that there is no social response to the level of precariousness to which the crisis has led us. There are thousands of pensioners on the street, thousands of pensioners fighting this imposition of the so-called austerity and struggles, by the way, who share with people like the staff of the Monforte Hospital, who today are on strike against that same logic; logical that points forward to meet that famous objective of the deficit, before the logic of putting forward the common good. And against that, of course, we support the derogation from the sustainability factor and the update factor, because, as we say to you, in addition to antisocials, they are anti-constitutional, as Mr Lago has already pointed out in the debate this morning. First of all, the new revaluation factor that is supposed to turn off the updating of inflationary pensions is against, we have already told you in the last full article 50 of the Spanish Constitution, because it does not update pensions as the cost of living increases prevents the famous economic viability. It has retroactive effects, because pensions caused prior to the reform will be affected, generating total non-defence and also affecting the constitutional principle of irretroactivity of laws. They are against the Court of Justice of the European Union, which considers that the factor, the element of revaluation, is part of the calculation of the pension content. If they change it, they're generating defence. It is opaque and — we have told it many times — it is also contrary to international social standards. I mean, they're antisocial and they're also anti-institutional and they're against numerous social regulations. As for the substitutivity factor, the fact of forwarding it to January 1, 2019 is curiously having — certainly not, it makes sense — a call factor towards early retirement; with which, its argument that spending on pensions will be reduced, is not so because this effect called is increasing the expenditure on pensions. And this sustainability factor is going to lead to a major reduction in the initial pension compared to the last salary. They have fixed union calculations that would fall by 15% in 20 years. We therefore consider that the German Government of the People's Party by extension is unable to cut more than 760,000 pensioners from Greece, who, as we have often noted, are among the most disadvantaged in the state, 62% of the pensions on the poverty line, and in addition to fulfilling an income function against poverty, that third of the Greek households who have as a support pension in this time of crisis; it has been still helping all those people who have lost their jobs. They will be allowed to suffer 40% of the purchasing power in twenty-five years. So we fully support this motion. We have tabled an amendment to emphasize that the defence of the public pension system must be made in general and that we must not fall into the temptation to think that the public pension system is inadmissible. That's why our amendment is trying to emphasize this: pensions are a right, they must be covered by the welfare state, which is more and more committed to cutting. The fact that pensions are viable has been demonstrated by a study by the Ministry of Employment that this morning Mr Lago pointed out to you, and that, while increasing pensions as well as the IPC, spending on pensions would only increase a point of GDP by 13 years, a point of GDP! Pension expenditure in the Spanish state is 10.8% of GDP, when in the eurozone it is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u157	...is 16.6%. So, therefore, defend the public pension system and repeal anti-social and illegal reforms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, I forgot in the morning. I would like to congratulate Mr. Leicega, the new leader of the opposition, with his 14 deputies, seeing the tide drift... 13 and going down. [[Applause]] Mrs. Vázquez Verao, we've been talking about this morning. We want to raise pensions when the general government budgets are approved for this year, within a month, and what you propose in this plenary is that we go up pensions within two years, when that bill of law they bring is discussed at the Congress of Deputies. We want to go up the pensions this month, as soon as they can be approved. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, no one defends Zapatero, and the truth is, I have to acknowledge him for his merit, and I have to acknowledge his grace. He didn't talk about the initiative he proposed. I suppose it's no accident I haven't talked about each of the points I'm proposing, but I do want to talk about them. I feel like watering your party because our country's national pension system starts in 1963, Social Security Basics Act. The General Law on Social Security, which establishes a single, general and distribution system, was adopted in 1966. I don't know if they were ruling their comrades, but that's when this model was created; a model, by the way, extended by the democratic governments of our country in the last forty years, by all governments — by all governments — and thanks to everyone's effort. [[Murmurs.]] Because, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, pensions are not paid by governments. [[Applause]] You think pensions are a socialist gift. No, no, pensions are not paid by governments, pensions are paid by taxpayers, workers. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, your position is completely inconsistent. The PSOE has been, is and will remain the public enemy number 1 of our country's employment. Look, in the last legislation, where you ruled, you doubled unemployment in Spain, we moved from two and a half million unemployed to five million unemployed. That's the reality, that's your legacy, that you feel so proud. [[Murmurs.]] They've broken the economy of our country, they've broken the economy of our country! The PSOE was the one who delayed retirement age at 67, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo; the PSOE was the one who frozen pensions for the first time in the history of our country; the PSOE, his party. [[Murmurs.]] Look, he asks in his initiative to eliminate the sustainability factor, of what we've been talking about this morning. I understand that you're not worried about the viability of our pension system, you're not concerned about the sustainability of the pension system; you haven't talked about it at all. No, no, socialists don't worry about this, they don't care about anything, they don't care about the system. And you know why? Because they almost got it once, and so they don't care much about what might happen to the system. You are in the shortest practice of telling people what people want to hear, and what this country needs is responsible rulers, but I understand that this is completely contradictory to belonging to the Socialist Workers' Party and less and less Spanish. [[Applause]] Look, we're going to continue to defend the revaluation rate that ensures that pensions always go up, always going up between 0.25% minimum and the IPC plus 1.5% maximum. That's the revaluation index. You stay at least; no, no, there's a minimum and a maximum. Well, you don't care. Look, we're defending. You want to take it off. And you know what makes us different? Look, you've frozen your pensions and we've always gone up our pensions. And now more, if we approve the general state budgets; now more. Within a month, they have the opportunity to contribute with their vote to raise pensions. Look, he's surprised at the second point of his initiative. They propose an increase of 1.6 % of pensions for this year 2018, according to the IPC. But don't you realize that the proposal presented by the Government of Mariano Rajoy proposes to raise pensions between 1% and 3%? Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, isn't it true that 3% is more than 1.6%? It's just, look, you're late; they're late and still on racans. That's the reality of the Socialist Party. Late, and above racans; racans, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Murmurs.]] Look, tell us about the Reserve Fund — by the way, created by a government of the People's Party; year 2000, the People's Party. Of course we use the Reserve Fund, but, you know why? To guarantee pensions, to pay pensions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you know why? Because you disbalanced the system, because the revenues and expenses were disbalanced because you've unemployed 3,800,000 workers, 3,800,000 contributors to the social security system. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u161	...don't play with the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks. Do you want to raise the pensions of the Greeks and the Greeks? They support the state's general budgets. The rest, palenque bombs, which is what the Socialist Party is all about, this compounded party, with the Tides of Podemos, with their confluences, with their divergences, with everything that happens on that bench.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u163	Look, we're going to continue working to shield the national pension system, we're always doing it and we're going to continue doing it, we're going to go up the pensions between 1% and 3%; we're going to go up the lowest. What are you going to do? To vote against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u165	Therefore, lessons, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I think this is no place and this, of course, is not the party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, in anticipation of your intervention, which is also quite predictable at all times, I bring you a copy of the BOE of December 22, 1990: Law 26/1990, of December 20, by which La Seguridad Social is established, benefits in contributions. Felipe González Marquez. You can laugh, you can laugh. [[Murmurs.]] Take it, Mr. President, so you can pass it on to your group. [[Applause]] Look, well, I'll continue with my intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u168	Quiet. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo is speaking. I pray to all Members, to your group and to the others... please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, Mr. Losada! Silence! Quiet, one honourable Member is speaking; everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Tellado, you look very nervous, the surveys don't seem to give them very good... First of all, Mrs. Noa Presas, we fully agree that it is really the people who always demand their improvements, social improvements, and in which, thanks to that, they achieve it. But I have to remind you — and you know perfectly well — that in order to be able to approve them and apply them, you have to govern them, and when the socialists rule, they approve and apply themselves, and when the People's Party governs, they laugh and pass degrading laws. [[Applause]] Anyway... Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. The portrait, as you said and as I said at first, is already done. We well know who defends public pensions and who doesn't defend them. And here today our guests, the class unions, the UGT, the Workers' Commissions and the Modepen Pensioners' Association can also check on site how each of the political groups in this House is portrayed. And look, Mr. Tellado, you were talking about pension gifts. How do you find yourself talking about it? No, no, no, at no time did I talk about gifts. I'm talking about rights, rights! That is the difference between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which while you're talking about giving them gifts, gifts, beneficence — which is what you stand for — we defend rights, rights! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And look, you tell me we're compounded. Complexed with what? I claim here all the improvements achieved by the Socialist Party; I demand them here and anywhere. Very proud, Mr. Tellado! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or-gu-lo-si-ma! Look, you want the PSOE to vote in favour of the 2018 Congress of Deputies on Budgets with the excuse that the pensioners will be in favour of this country. Well, it's really just to see Mr. Rafael Hernando, the voicer at the Congress of Deputies, unbridled, with pride and... well, without qualifications, saying that pensioners have to go out and applaud the government for going up more than they were asking... but do you really believe that pensioners and pensioners in this country are fools? What do you think? [[Murmurs.]] Do you expect us to support a patch for six months, a patch that does not guarantee the stability or continuity of the system and does not guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, since my time is short, I'm just going to make a simulation. Retirement start, 67 years old...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u171	...with an average pension of EUR 1,000, a differential of 0.25% and an IPC of 2% — I remember what the European Central Bank says — and fourteen annual payments. With what you defend with the approval of your law in 75 years, that is, at 75 years of age...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u173	...a pensioner with a monthly pension of 1,000 euros has lost 10,000 euros, 10,000 euros, and at 85 years he has lost more than 37,000 euros. And we no longer put the impact that would be the monthly purchase and the cost of drugs, which, at 85 years of age, would be left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u174	You're done now, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u175	That's the reality of what you approve of. Here he is, and I can deliver him. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u176	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next motion. [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please, that, if not, we don't know where we're debating. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the deficiencies existing in the emergency services of the hospitals of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u177	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u178	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u179	Good afternoon to all and to all. During the inquiry we made to the Health Adviser in the previous plenary, it was perfectly clear that the lack of willingness to provide solutions to the problems of emergency services, the lack of complete interest in addressing the structural problems of emergency services, was made clear that there was no desire to hear or dialogue with staff. It is evident that he once again left manifesto yesterday at a meeting, theoretically public, in the lobby of acts of the Mexoeiro Hospital, called to primary care staff, where he said: "Dear friends, the advisor and his team have started a tour of the various health areas aimed at having direct contact with the professionals of primary care and power, so listen first-hand to your opinions, views and needs." Well, he missed to say, "if they're favorable, of course." And he said that in the case of Vigo the date set for this meeting will be the next April 23rd and will be in the Mexoeiro's Hall of Acts. Well, as primary care professionals were personated there, because these letters in many cases were hung on advertising boards, because they put "primary care professionals." [[Mr. Prado Colors displays a document.]] And they moved there and were invited to leave the acting room, because it seems they were distorting the meeting, and they left the acting room, or the meeting was suspended. This is the task of the advisor, his team, the manager of the Vigo Integrated Management Organization Structure, Mr. Félix Rubial, to meet the demands of the staff of the Galego Health Service. [[Applause]] He showed it here. He doesn't answer the questions that we put here at parliamentary headquarters about the needs of the staff, he doesn't meet with staff, and when the staff comes to public appeals theoretically to listen first-hand to opinions, visions and needs — I repeat: whenever they are favorable; if they are not favorable, if they are to transfer the reality of the staff, the reality in this case that they want to transfer the professionals from the points of continuous attention — in that case, they are not welcome and they are not wanted to listen to their reality, and then they have to leave the meetings, because it just seems like they want to hear the favorable questions. Well, a staff who is face-to-face, doing their best work, in a limited situation, with many difficulties in properly performing their work, difficulties that do not guarantee either the quality of care or their legal security, professionals who are playing their professional prestige in the absolutest of the legal, professional uncertainties that are providing their services in an increasing precariousness, and that increase is proportional to the decline in the quality of care. A situation that has been reported not for weeks or months, but for years: lack of material, lack of resources, lack of personnel, many of the emergency services are in extreme situations, and they have come to report this situation, in the HULA, that a few days ago they reported the difficulties that emergency personnel are experiencing for the proper performance of their work, because on many occasions the situation is limited. In the CHUS — which we have denounced in the past — the situation is becoming unsustainable, both from a job and an assistance point of view. At the CHUOU they say that the chaotic situation of emergencies is repeated one day and the other also, because, far from being punctual days, this collapse occurs on time every day and above all by reasoning about the effective staffing of patients, who seem to matter only the days — they matter every day to the workers — to the leaders at election times. At the CHUAC, the situation was brought to the guard's trial — which I have also denounced in this gallery — where patients attending the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Coruña are staying for hours in love in the emergency corridors. Patients are being cared for by professionals at the limit of their physical and mental capacity. We could continue to refer to the CHOP, we could refer to the Salnés Hospital, we could refer to the Monforte Emergency, which is on strike today. We could follow through all Sergas hospital services, which would be similar. Some emergency services that treat a few averages of very high daily patients, with patients growing older, with higher pluripathology, and all while it's worth noting or at least minimum. Surgeons are increasingly outpatients, they close beds, they increase waiting lists, they increase the number of cancer patients, primary care is impaired, they dance situations like the one reported by a person on the network, who says, "The health situation in Galicia, the situation this morning, one April, this April, in a Compostela health center, where the pediatrician asks for an interconsultation in the Otorrinolaryngology Service for my young son, indicating that they see him as early as possible. After I go to the administrative office to ask for the first appointment available, the date they offer me is January 14, 2019." Here's the appointment: January 14, 2019, for a little boy. [[Mr Prado Colors displays a document]] What about this boy for what his pediatrician asks him for an appointment as soon as possible? When you feel bad, what will you do? Go to hospital, of course. Or just as oncology patients from the CHUS, Santiago, report that they wait until very late in the afternoon with a sandwich and a yogurt that they put on the treatment of chemotherapy for lack of personnel, for lack of means. What happens when these patients become destabilized? Where do they end up? In emergency services. What do I mean by this whole situation relationship? That we are facing a structural problem. We're not going to get tired of reporting in the Galician Nationalist Block that we are facing a structural problem, which is not solved with patches. And that's why the motion we are presenting today has two points referring to timely solutions, which is to submit as soon as possible a report to the planning and reinforcement measures to address those peaks, which are less and less, that the peaks are less and less, because the emergency situation is permanent. We're talking to the professionals we're talking about, in the services we're talking about, everyone tells us that it's not about peaks anymore, but the situation is permanent, because the cuts in professionals and in the media have as a result that they're no longer worth time-consuming reinforcements. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, it does not come up with a timely reinforcement, because the situation is permanent, with which it is necessary. At some point the situation gets worse and it's already dramatic, but the situation is permanent, with which measures for these timely situations, protocols for punctual situations, but what we are talking about today's bulk of the motion is permanent structural measures, because emergency problems are already permanent, is no longer a point issue. Therefore, what we propose is that we propose is immediately to remedy the staff deficits and the correction of the deficiencies existing in the emergency services services of the Sergas hospital hospitals, which are systematically denounced by the staff who provide their services; that all necessary measures are taken immediately immediately to ensure that the hospitalization units are open and functioning with all the resources available, not when they are already in the emergency services of the emergency services of the Sergas hospital centres, which are systematically denounced by the staff who provide their services; that all necessary measures are taken to ensure that the hospitalization units are open and functioning with all the resources available, not when the water on the neck, not when the water is permanently in place, not when the day is reached, not when the morning is reached, and there is a row of beds of persons waiting for their services; that all beds of beds of beds of persons waiting for their services to be entered into the private health care; that all necessary resources are made available, but, but permanently, but permanently and permanently, the resources of the resources of the public health sector resources of the public health sector resources are closed; that are closed; that they are closed; that they should be removed; that they should remove the use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-re and good quality; and good-use and good quality; and good quality; to remove the duty-use and good-use and good quality; to remove the elimination of the duty-use and good quality of the elimination of the duty-use and good-use and good-use and good-use and good-for and public-for and public resources are removed; to remove the duty-for and public resources of the duty-for and public resources of the benefits; and public resources and public resources and public resources and public resources; and public resources and public resources and public resources and public and public resources and public resources should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should be removed; and public and public and public and public resources; and public and public and public and public and public and public service; and public and public and public and public and public and public resources are removed; and public resources should be removed; and public resources should be removed; and public resources are removed You just voted against the bill that brought BNG here to raise resources for the primary care improvement plan. It's a lot of the voices of professionals who claim that emergencies have to be solved with resources and means of primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u181	That is why we bring this motion here today, which calls for structural measures to solve the problem of emergencies, because — just as the rural environment advisor has just appeared and the fire problem is solved in winter — the problem of emergencies is solved by structural measures, by resources, by professionals and by means of means. I therefore look forward to voting in favour of the groups of this House on this motion of the Galician Nationalist Block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Actually, I thought we were here to talk about this emergency motion, and basically about CHUS emergencies, which you didn't even mention, but well, I brought here a series of news and data on complaints in emergency services and emergency services problems; I don't know if they're current or could be from 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 or 2009. I, if you like, have cuts, as many as you've taught here. He also spoke of Monforte's strike. Actually, the Monforte Hospital is on strike, but I want to remind you here that, for example, there are three trade unions, which are CSIF, SATSE and CESM-Omega, who are not on strike. So that seems to be obvious at times. I was surprised that you talked about the increase in outpatient surgery. Does it bother you to increase outpatient surgery? I didn't understand why either. Because you talked about a protest from a pediatrician in Santiago, about cancer patients, about a lot of things. I could also bring letters that are reflected in the press. A letter came out these days from a person from the Navy County, Coast Hospital, publicly thanking the professionals and the system for the oncology, the home care oncology hospital. I think he's been talking about late income. You know that delays in income depend on a lot of other things. Well, here's what's true is that a group of workers in the CHUS brought us a series of demands, it's a group that covered the categories of nursing staff and care technicians, nursing assistants and lockers, in relation to the functioning of the personnel and material deficiencies they referred to. He also spoke of these people who had situations of bad relationships between collectives, like some collective like doctors, or even that there was also a disconformity with the appointment of a person who had become an emergency supervisor. They also complained about the treatment of the Power, that at that time they had not yet received them, although then we know that they did, and made a series of minimal and non-negotiable demands, "minimum and non-negotiable." I believe that, of course, my inconformity, which I have manifested to you, is that "minimum and non-negotiable" is not intended to negotiate. They asked for a locker square, four nursing stations and three auxiliary technicians, and a series of materials and equipment, and they made a surprising comparison to the number of staff there was in Santiago, in Vigo and in Coruña. I believe that the areas of Vigo and La Coruña, both in extension and in number of inhabitants, are frankly difficult to compare with the area of Santiago. They were also not inconformity with a new model of working in emergencies, which had just proposed to the Government, and it was stated here at a certain point that the ratios of CHUS patients are greater than those indicated by scientific societies, in this case an emergency service, as could be any other from Galicia, because this is really what has most protests. Well, so societies, SEMES and ACEP Americans talk about being tolerant, or they're good at normal margins, up to 4,445 emergencies per optional, by doctor. In Santiago, it's about 2,992, with an average ratio of 13.6 medical care per shift, per shift or per day of work. So, well, we think that, in fact, there are things that can best be improved, and we believe and we have tabled an amendment in this respect. Emergency works much better with the screening system, it doesn't first enter the emergency, but it comes first what's more urgent; I think that was a paradigm shift that professionals and citizens appreciate. Here the counsellor in the inquiry explained a little bit what the wings, boxes, material, armchairs etc., etc., etc. were. And it compromised the reinforcement according to the needs of the Power, and also the replenishment of the material, in that case, depending on the needs. So, what's our amendment going on? Our amendment says: "Requesting from the council the provision of professionals and material means to ensure the proper assistance of people who attend the various emergency services of the Greek hospitals, reinforcing, in addition, staff in circumstances of increased demand, in accordance with their respective contingency plans.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh We urge the groups to accept this amendment and to show that they really are concerned about citizens and emergency problems, and this is not to follow the wear campaign or to constantly release the public health system. With regard to the following points, because well, the planning and reinforcement measures have already been explained by the adviser in this Chamber, the action protocols for existential peaks are developed each year by the different agencies, the hospitalization units are always open, they are skilled or they are disabled at any time depending on the needs. The next template dimensioning point we think is covered by our amendment, and the stability plan was signed in 2017, undertaking the advice to reduce to 5% the eventuality. It is true that the IGC has not signed this stability plan, it has been signed by CEMS, Omega, Satse and CISF; the IGC has not signed it, and that is why a new stability plan has to be developed. For my part nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u184	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u185	Thank you, President. Well, let's talk about health. Let's see if it calms down a little bit, let's talk about pensions, and it seems like it's turned on a little bit. Health, public health implanted through the General Law of 1986, a socialist government, I hope I don't have to bring the law here and leave it to the president too. By the way, when we talk about pensions, at least what happened to public health, which the People's Party voted against. [[Applause]] I say it because then there are some speeches here about the complex and the history of the parties. I think there's some party in the House that's something complicated with its origin and its history, of course we're not socialists, eh! Then I won't! [[Applause]] Everyone will know where he comes from and whether he feels proud of it or not. We're going to support this motion, we believe that the BNG is setting up a very complete, very broad motion, but we believe that all points have a pretty logical meaning, and before I said En Marea's voicer, in the previous motion on health, who made a Labordeta-style tour into "A country in the backpack." At the last initiative we brought up on an emergency issue, we were finished talking about the Karolinska Institute in Sweden. We were touched a little by Willy Fog and La back into the world in eighty days. It was more or less like, at the end of the story is not to talk about what's going on here, that there used to be that mantra that "professionals speak." [[Applause]] What happens is that the PP now, when the professionals talk to him, he prefers to talk about the Karolinska Institute, because, of course, when the professionals talk to him, they remove the colors. But that debate will already have it on its own, about when it is worth the professionals and what it is worth and which it is not, because in the end it must be that the professionals are good according to who they vote for, according to each party. We believe that, essentially, this problem is well pointed out in this motion, and for us, essentially, it has a structural problem of the health system, which is a staff problem. This health care we have in Galicia — which is maintained by professionals, so these letters from users, so the constant thanks that professionals have in the system — is sustained by professionals and despite the managers, who ultimately, in addition, do nothing more than find themselves that professionals are washing their faces, because they don't know exactly where they're going. But this problem of personnel affects all systems, including emergency systems, because there's an emergency problem, but it's not essentially emergencies. There are some cases where it's more serious, for example, yes, in Santiago, which is one of the emergency services. I say it because I'm going to talk in general, because some voicer seems to have come ready to give Santiago's reply; I promise I've searched, looked for and looked for and in the motion there's nothing about the CHUS. I say it because it's important, when the written replicas are brought, at least replicate what they're proposing to one. But, finally, I understand that the PP lately in health is having a problem of adjustment, and likewise the PP doesn't want to talk much about what's going on in the CHUS or what some of the CHUS professionals say, must be that you're not convincing him at all. But we do defend that there is a problem in emergencies that is not specifically urgent, that it exploits there, although some, like the case of the CHUS, do have a serious resource problem, because besides all the added problems, it has a unique problem in the service itself, of lack of material and human resources, essentially human resources. This is the Welsh health, to which users qualify as one of Spain's three worst, basically, not of primary care, but primarily of hospital care, and besides, essentially, by waiting lists, that users — although they are quite intelligent — find that personal lack. There's basically a problem with this health care, because we have a 25% temporality in the healthcare professionals in the system. One out of four with a temporary contract, and that's hardly sustainable, because we spend 400 million euros a year paying for eventualities, because when the CAP professionals go to meet or listen to each other, or trying to talk to the board directors, they throw them out of the hall. Because when there's a strike, as happens in Monforte, the minimum services are greater than there's one day there's no strike, and health care professionals when they're on strike have to work more for minimum services than when they're not. Paradoxical! How's the system going to work like that? Well, it's very difficult. And then it happens that there are proposals here on improvements in terms of staff, and PP is laughing at the proposals, as happened with the 2017 OP, which was then approved, as happened with the proposal basically referred to in all the discussions of the Health Act, that it was possible to modify and work so that professionals could go to the comarcas hospitals, grading, having a job about the extraordinary payment, or bonus in terms of points for internal promotions. You laugh, and now you'll adapt it. As it happened, basically, to the university squares, where it was said at all, but it was never said whether or not it would be accepted, and what we socialists said, 360 squares were taken up at the university. At the end of the PP, lately, it's doing a lot of this to pull back, give an opinion and then go back. So we have a problem, because to see if it's going to be that they need to care a lot about things coming in and we don't waste the time they're taking to rectify. [[Applause]] It would be a lot more interesting. In any case, we continue to argue that there is a serious public health problem, that we need more personnel, that we need more stability, and that will help improve services. If services are usually improved, the Emergency Service will mainly improve, because the case here is paradigmatic. If there are problems throughout the service, particularly in primary care, citizens are not able to be demanding or reviewing budgets when they have a sick child who goes to a health center, what they want is to solve the problem. And they'll therefore go to the hospital emergency room. And we have a council that instead of getting personal feedback, and making that service better cared for, what it does is to blame them and disown the citizens. Let's get more personal and give us the opportunity for this system to work all the good that can work; we know that you voted against whenever you could do this, and that you don't like the public system, but everyone else we like needs to be more personal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u186	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u187	Thank you, President. Indeed, we are still not in agreement with the Clinic's emergencies, and today the proposed group is generally talking about the whole of emergencies, because unfortunately the problems are global in the whole of the Galician Health Service, although it is true that in the CHUS there is a specific problem that we have already dealt with and that we have discussed in the Commission last week. And today is just the day when — as we said earlier — professionals in the public hospital in Monforte have to start an indefinite strike in front of the deaf ears of the Galician Health Service, and this is the general point in the Galician Health Service, that this staff failure, these demands of the professionals are not heard at any time, and we have a multicasuality, which we have defined and treated here on multiple occasions, and to which now the spokesman of the Socialist Party referred again, which motivates this ongoing, chronicated process of saturation — because, of course, it is more and more often — and that this multicasuality has a different source. One has already been pointed out by the proponent here too, in terms of primary care, the situation of health centres with many problems arising from non-replacement and depreciation of squares. There are problems in Rianxo, in the Bridges, in Cambre, in Sanxexo, in Tui, the list is endless and we see it continuously in the Commission 5th — of Health and Social Policy — the problems that are in specialized care, mainly in hospitalization, because of the absence of staff — also because of these non-replacements — and this depreciation of squares in hospital units, which makes it more complex to raise patients and patients who have already indicated hospitalisation by emergency doctors, but who do not come up with the Emergency Service, gathering in the corridors. And thirdly, the emergency services themselves, as in this and other cases where there are structural shortages of professionals, staff, which are not covered, and that's why there is no agreement, and therefore in Commission 5th there was no agreement, because what is needed is not timely reinforcements. Obviously, there may be a day when a reinforcement is needed, of course, yes, for that is the management and the nursing directors and directors, in general, to cover those reinforcements. But in this case, and in general, what is a structural shortage of professionals in the services, which usually make professionals not enough, essentially in this case, and we refer to nursing assistants in nursing assistants, in janitors and janitors, and it seems that the People's Party does not like comparison with Vigo's hospital or the Coruña hospital. Well, they have a casuistic that can be different, but with a similar volume of work, and that's why it's done, of course, comparative. And I was criticising, I don't know if it was in the committee or in the plenary last, that they had made themselves — I think it was in the committee — a number of claims that were said to be non-negotiable. They're non-negotiable because they're the minimums, because what they're asking you for is already the very least, a locker at night, a nursing assistant on tomorrow's shift, a nursing assistant on the night shift; the minimums they need to cover the amount of work there is and it's not covered by professionals who have existing ones. That's the reality, they're already in such a desperate situation in Santiago de Compostela's case that they're asking for the minimums. And we've moved to them that it's not real, it's not true, that the professionals are enough and that the cases are taking care of themselves in time and form; tell the medical professionals, in this case of Santiago de Compostela's University Hospital Complex, and they give the data, and I'll bring them back today because they gave them to us, and we'll transfer them to the Health Commission. On levels 5 and 4, which are the least serious and which in theory have to be met between 2 hours and 4 hours in the least serious, really, what should be being treated would be a patient every 20 minutes -- 21 on a 7-hour shift -- but the reality is that you get over that figure and we go into a fork of up to 30 patients. It's the data of the professionals. In the case of levels 3 and 2 -- the most serious levels, especially in the case of 2 -- this has to be reduced, and at the very most they could see 10 patients on a 7-hour shift, according to the Council's own data. The reality is that it's seen between 13 and 17 and the reality is that waiting time is not restricted until they pass through the filter, or you see a doctor or an emergency doctor, the waiting time, and the rest of the time you spend without channeling, too. And those patients who have an indication of hospitalization and that doesn't happen remain in the corridors. What the medical professionals tell us is that, literally, "...in spite of the complaint in the prosecution, they continue to accumulate serious patients in the corridors", with which we fear new fatal developments. This is a reality. He's not paying attention. Urgent measures must be taken. And I'm done. I told you professionals in all categories, there's no division in this sense, and they have to take some kind of measure. We're going to support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u189	Thank you, President. Mr. Núñez Centeno, we've come to talk about the motion that is registered in writing, what happens is that you follow your style manual, the People's Party style manual, which is that it doesn't matter what is formulated or what you're asked to use demagogy, hypocrisy and falsehood continues. They talk about dialogue, when, then, nothing at all, they don't do it here, they don't do it to professionals, and they act as the counselor did yesterday to primary-care CAP professionals: throw them out, not allow them to talk and not talk to them. That's what you do. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] What are the emergency problems? We're talking on this motion about emergency problems. We talked long and hard about the CHUS problems here, and you didn't want to hear them. The CHUS problems are the same as the rest of the emergency services: lack of personnel, lack of resources and an increase in pathologies in emergencies -- yes, an increase in the pathologies I've explained to them before. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't want to hear: strike of maintenance staff in Ourense for more than 55 days, don't listen; strike at the hospital of Monforte, deaf ears; Prosecutor at CHUS, deaf ears; Judged at the CHUAC, deaf ears; press complaints at the HULA, deaf ears; complaints for active and passive... you don't want to listen to anyone, you're raised in the prepotence and chulery that only you are right. Prepotence and brewery! [[Applause]] Their only goal is to impose their report that everything is okay, that there is no problem in our country's public health. It's the only concern they have, to impose this story; they don't care about the suffering of people, they don't care about the frustration of professionals and professionals, they give them absolutely equal to their impotence, the insecurity situation in which they're going to work every day. They're totally the same. Today we brought here a motion to insist that we face a structural problem that is not solved with patches. At some point they'll have to stop and realize that they have to fix, because it'll crack the system -- and you know -- you know that. When there's a serious problem, they'll put their hands on their heads and they'll look for some Turkish head to blame, some professional to blame, and you'll want to be free of any responsibility. They'll look for some professionals, some who pass by, someone to whom they're responsible, but those responsible have names and names: the people's health policy, starting with President Núñez Feijóo, following the advisor and you, who raise their hand by supporting their policies... for you, who raise your hand... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u190	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u191	...supporting their policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u192	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u193	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u194	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u195	No, no, no, no. If the People's Party in that amendment is willing to put it: equip itself with resources and sit on a sectoral table to negotiate with trade union organizations deadlines... of course! [[Murmurs.]] If you want to negotiate terms and numbers... Of course, man, it's rockets and smoke, as you'll understand... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u196	That's it. The amendment says what it says. Thank you. The debate is over. We shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We're going to vote on the motions. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u197	We started by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the provision of health care in Sergas in the area of health management of the Coruña. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. That text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u198	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. I don't know what the opinion on the amendments is. Do you accept amendments from the Group of the Blocks and the Tide Parliamentary? Don't you? [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept the vote separated from the third point? [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] We begin by voting on the third point of this motion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote on point 3 of the G.P. Motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the central government in relation to the loss of purchasing power of pensions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 22; votes against, 36; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u199	We vote, then, the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, except point 3, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the loss of purchasing power of pensions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-24-DSPG068.u200	We now vote on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mrs. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the deficiencies in the emergency services of the Sergas hospital. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
