ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Before we proceed on the agenda, we greet the Association of Former Students and Students of the University of Coruña which today accompany us and all the guests who are today in the gallery of Parliament. Welcome to Parliament. We begin with the fifth item on the agenda, which are questions for the President's oral answer. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the proposals that will drive the Galician Union in order to ensure a stable framework for electrointensive companies and avoid the closure of Alcoa
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u3	Thank you very much. Good day to all and all. Mr. Feijóo, the workers and the workers of Alcoa have been at war for three weeks now, and we are with them. And we're with them because it's businessable that a multinational thinks it can come to this country, squeeze factories that were public, squeeze workers and workers, and after winning millions of euros, hang up the closing cartel with an illegal ERE and leave hundreds of families thrown away. And it must be said loud and clear: Alcoa is not closed and there are solutions. [[Applause]] You know — as I know, just as the workers and workers in this forum know — that the solution to this problem is political. The solution is to have the defence of the production of German aluminium as a strategic sector and an energy policy that is really competitive, stable and that enables us as a country to benefit from the production of electricity. Because it's outrageous that, in Galicia where we produce electricity, we have energy poverty, or we have 400 workers in the peak because of energy. It's also outrageous that your government didn't have the courage to defend a discount on the electricity tariff and a new framework that would allow us to give stability and opportunities to compete on an equal footing with the industry in our country. In any case, the important thing right now is what we do from here on. Fifteen days ago in this Parliament we adopted an institutional statement, and I imagine that no one thinks that this is the final point of a debate. It is the starting point for us to be able to form a country position that allows us to maintain production and employment in Alcoa. And for that -- we told the councilman -- it was important that a dialogue table be set up, so that when they go to Madrid they can defend a country position agreed upon with all the agents. In these 15 days, they haven't done that. We can still do it, Mr. Feijó. In any case, there are some proposals that we find urgent that you defend before the minister tomorrow. The first thing is that this illegal ERE has to be removed, because under that pressure you can't negotiate. Secondly, there must be a clear commitment that production and employment will be maintained in the Coruña factory; and we say that it must be kept with or without Alcoa. If the multinational wants to go ahead with the ERE, the government has instruments. You can make, through Sepi, a rescue from that factory to guarantee employment. It's a legal proposal, it's a necessary proposal and it's a proposal that you should defend at the meeting you have with the minister tomorrow. And finally, Mr President, we think it is absolutely necessary to put in place a new energy policy that guarantees a stable and competitive framework for our industrial sector. And within this energy policy it is necessary to articulate an industrial tariff for electrointensive companies similar to that which exists in the countries around us. We understand that within that rate Galicia also has to have compensation. We must have discounts on the fees we pay to compensate for the social and environmental costs of electricity production. And, of course, companies that accept this tariff need to have social balances: they have to guarantee employment; they have to guarantee investments in their facilities; and of course, industrial plans to create more jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u5	Mr Feijó, we are facing a key and important issue for the future of this country. We wait for your proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, the Galician Union has been working alongside the Alcoa workers since we took possession. This conflict started back in 2012, it resumed in 2014, and now, in 2018, we again talk about Alcoa's difficulties as a result, among other things, of not having a stable rate that regulates energy-using companies as a fundamental cost that conditions their products. Your Honor, we will continue to defend the workers because we do not distinguish between the workers. I know you want to close Elnosa, you want to close ENCE, you want to close Reganosa. Not us. We think all the companies that comply with the regulations in Galicia have the right to continue in Galicia, and we are concerned about the families that make up those companies. In fact, fifteen days ago in this plenary, a unanimous stance was adopted. I will follow exactly the unanimous stance that my group and the other groups have agreed in this Parliament. First, tell the families that we fully understand their situation. Secondly, to ask the company to negotiate, but to negotiate with the central government, to establish a rate of interruption, a specific rate, a stable rate; a rate that has a certain vocation of permanence so that the company does not use torture arguments to close the Alcoa factory in Coruña and Avilés. But — nevertheless, Your Honor — this is not because I was asked by the BNG — which I too — but because the first one I proposed to the current Government of the Socialist Party at the July meeting in Moncloa, in the matters that I was taking to deal with Mr. Sánchez, was Alcoa. Therefore, the Central Government knows from July, for myself, the difficulties that we have already warned of inconcretion of interruptibility and the lack of payment of the 150 million euros that are recorded in the 2018 budget for electrointensive companies. The councillor told the Secretary of State of Energy in August. And the advisor repeated it again in October at the Sectoral Industry Commission. I moved to Oviedo myself to have a meeting with the President of the Principality of Asturias. And we had a reconvened meeting with trade union organizations, the central government and the company a few weeks ago in Madrid. Your Honor, we've been working with Alcoa since 2012. We're back in 2014. We'll continue in 2018. And we're going to ask the Government exactly what we agreed to in this resolution. First, a stable rate of interruption must be fixed at least five years. Because if there's no minimum guaranteed energy prices, it's obvious that all the electro-intensive industries in Spain have lots of alibi to say simply that it's not profitable and that they can't keep working. What you really should do is work with us so that the energy messages that the Government of Spain is launching are not such apocalyptic messages. Apocalyptics Why? Because all they do is increase the price of energy. First of all, we have to shut down the nuclear. That means increasing energy prices by 25%. Second, we need to close the coal power stations. That means increasing energy prices by 15%. Third, we must continue to fund the renewables premiums. That means continuing to increase the tariff deficit. So, Your Honor, what we need are guarantees, security and stability. And these continuous messages in energy matter, the only thing they produce, are run off to electro-intensive companies to shut down their activity. So, Mrs. Pontón, you have no doubt, I'm not going to change my mind. I didn't change when I rule the People's Party or change when I rule the Socialist Party. I hope you don't change your mind either simply because you're now interested in defending workers and sometimes harming others. All the Greeks are entitled to a decent job, and the Alcoa professionals, of course. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u8	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u9	Mr. Feijóo, I really believe that you are unable to come here and not repeat the argumentary after argumentary, you don't care the subject of what we're talking about. Look, we want to talk about Alcoa today because we are worried — and very much — about what can happen not only to 400 families, but to a whole area, like the Coruña area, where a lot of industrial employment has been destroyed in recent years. A lot of industrial employment has been destroyed in the Coruña and a lot of industrial employment has been destroyed in Galicia, so we need to move from this absolutely useless position to this country that you have, because you're only interested in seeing who can take responsibility for a situation but not put on the table brave solutions and that we're really serious, because -- I insist -- we're talking about an important issue for the future of many families and a sector that is strategic for Galicia. We asked him some questions about which you didn't say anything, and we think it's important that workers and workers know what the position of the Board is. First of all, what if Alcoa decides not to withdraw the ERE? What are you going to defend your government, Mr. Feijóo? Will you defend that there is a rescue on the part of the State to guarantee employment, yes or no? I think this is an important issue, because we've seen in recent years, for example, how the bank has been rescued. The People's Party made it with money from everyone and everything to save those we see today how they act in this country. Your Government of the People's Party rescued the highways in Madrid, and we asked ourselves: will you defend that you rescue the Alcoa factory so that there will be a future for employment in our country? I think this is an important issue, and you know it worries workers and workers. And there's a second question to which he didn't refer either. Do you think we need to recognise the status of electro-intensive industries with a rate that gives them stability and also has a social return? Yes or no? I think these are the two most important issues that we need to clarify right now. And don't be mistaken as an enemy, we've seen this debate with the hand held to conform to a position of country, and it seems you don't want to summon the unions, the political parties to make a front from Galicia to defend the job. We insist that we wish, Mr Feijóo, that you, when you went to Madrid, were not alone and exclusively as a militant of the People's Party, but had taken a position of country formed since the dialogue. That's what Asturias is doing. We regret that on this subject you seem to have no such disposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u11	The first thing you should know, Mrs. Pontón, is that Alcoa has two factories in Galicia. So when you say Alcoa is worried about Coruña, I'm worried about Alcoa in Coruña and Alcoa in San Cibrao, both. So you should shade certain ideas you make here, because there are thousands of jobs: more than 1,200 in the Navy and more than 500 in the Coruña. We therefore set up the problem as a whole and not as a part of it, because, if we put it in part, what we can achieve is the future of the whole. Mrs. Pontón, you don't listen to me because you tell me we don't meet... I'm meeting with the company committee myself. The councillor also met with the works council. We have the telephones open for the company committee and for the trade unions. Mrs Pontón, how do you say we didn't put forward a proposal for tariff stability when I just made a specific proposal that you didn't even hear? If what we're going to consider is five years of stability in the concepts of interruptability, that means establishing five years of stability for the rates of electrointensive companies in Galicia. Therefore, Mrs. Pontón, I just don't know what we're being accused of. I was next to the workers in 2012 and 2014, when the blame for all this was on the central government of the PP. Now it turns out that the central government in Spain has changed and the blame remains, in this case, the Council of Galicia because I too am from the PP, even though I am ruling the Socialist Party. This is something amazing, Mrs. Pontón. You should keep an eye on Galicia's interests. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I'm not looking for guilty, I'm just looking for solutions. You already have the culprits, I need solutions for the workers. First, don't fool them. Secondly, I would like to ask the Central Government, at my first meeting in July, that the Central Government had to make an immediate proposal because we have to implement the interruptability already for the next few years. Secondly, to pay the 150 million euros that were recorded in the budgets and that have not yet been paid. Mrs. Pontón, let's give no arguments to any company to get out of here. Let's make a proposal so companies don't use the energy price to relocate. We traded with the central government and the company. The company that pulls out the ERE, and the central government that sets a competitive tariff. That's exactly what we have to do, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] So when we're thinking about these messages, all they're doing is stressing the price of energy on the rise, closing nuclear power stations without ending the useful life cycle, closing coal plants to increase the price of energy, increasing renewables' premiums to do business for those who invest in renewables, that's what we've done; yes, you know, we're not. We said that the price of energy in Spain has to be competitive; that we have to compete with Germany, that we have to compete with France, that we have to compete with Norway, and what is more difficult, that we have to compete with Asian countries that have the price of energy. So, Mrs Pontón, don't worry. I'm with the BNG in the matter of Alcoa, with a difference, that I don't seek guilty, I look for solutions. And the same way I'll never blame BNG for matters that have nothing... No, no, how am I going to blame BNG, if they don't tell me about the Basque fare for the first time? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u12	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u13	For the first time they don't fool the Alcoa workers again in this conflict. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, you're wrong about those special rates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u15	...to all the Greek workers. And I, as I represent most of the Greeks and, of course, the Alcoa workers, will never deceive them. I didn't do it in 2012, or in 2014, or in 2018. Either we're putting forward a price proposition guaranteed in interruptability, or we're just gonna keep blaming the others. Look, each one of them, the company that pulls out the ERE and the central government that implements a tariff to give us strengths, arguments and reasons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u17	...to win this ERA, absolutely inappropriate, that the Council of Galicia does not share. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u18	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the views of the Government of Greece on the quality of employment created in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u19	Question by Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u20	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Núñez Feijó. I also want to greet everyone who accompanies us, including the Alcoa workers. The greatest concern for citizens in Galicia and their families is employment. Its quantity is insufficient, but also its quality. And we have a common place: the most competent and best-formed generations in our history. Young people strive to form in their different fields, and as a result, when they get results — which is usually so — our level of training rises, and we must tend to do it even more because it is a guarantee for the future. The problem comes after, then what? Because dedication and effort often clash with the new reality of the labour market. Some -- the least -- have the luck, or family relationships, or the competition to find a good solution and achieve stability and good wages. Others have to go. They leave and find out a solution. But the most overcomes forced to follow in Galicia, condemning precariousness and low wages. Going into contract contracts, in labor conditions that are nothing presentable, with wages that hardly allow to arrive at the end of the month, depending on many times on family members, and feeling, above all, that their effort, their training, their availability to work, are not adequately rewarded. In the last year, of nearly a million employment contracts in Galicia, more than 900,000 were temporary contracts. Precautionary continues to leave its pattern. And I'm going to give you three data very quickly. Since the recovery began, time employment has three times increased the pace of indefinite employment. One in two jobs created in Galicia are temporary jobs. Worse for women, of course, there's also a gender gap here. Second data. Under the age of 30, all jobs created are temporary jobs. Everything, absolutely all the job created. We condemn our entire youth, the one left in Galicia, in chains, one after another, temporary contracts that do not give stability or sufficient wages. You can tell me this doesn't depend too much on you because it's a result of the functioning of the labour market that happens throughout Spain, and it's true. But I'm going to give you a third data: all employment created in the public domain in Galicia since 2014, and a little more — everything and a little bit more — is also temporary employment; and this really depends on you. The policies in this field need to be rectified. It's not enough for the Galician Union to do so, it's also for the Central Government. It must be acknowledged in Galicia that we have created too little employment; that the job we have created does not meet the minimum conditions of stability and wage-sufficient: it does not offer good opportunities, condemns youth in the present and sacrifices it in the future, because wages and working conditions of entry condition the whole work path. But thirdly, you must also recognize that the public sector is not as high as your responsibilities, and that, instead of correcting this strong trend to temporality, it exacerbates this trend because it goes beyond even the private sector. And we can't ask our youth for commitment to the future if we don't offer good conditions. And we can't ask the private sector too much, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if we don't do our homework from the public sector. I tell you that the change in Galician union labour policy is urgent and that must be done within the administration itself, but also out, with the instruments that the Galician board has, that are enough; instruments that have not been used so far and that usually end up closing its budget with a degree of execution too low. That's your responsibility, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u21	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. In fact, about October of last year, you were asking me about the job. A year later, you ask me again. I think it is right because it is indeed one of the fundamental problems of Spain and, consequently, Galicia. So I told him a year ago, that we thought the job creation prospects were on the right track and that we were in a position to meet the employment forecasts set out in the strategic plan of our economy. Today, a year later, I can tell you that these prospects have been met, and the data so bear witness, you take the ratio that you take. Registered unemployment. In Galicia we are lowering unemployment recorded 2.6 points above what the rest of Spain is downloading; 8.7 unemployment rate down in Galicia, 6.1 in Spain. Social Security membership last year, 23,300 more than a year ago. In the EPA that just came out, in the third quarter, the unemployment rate is at 2.3 points better than the average of Spain; in Galicia at 12.2% and in Spain at 14.5%. We recovered the 2009 unemployment rate and we have 24,000 new jobs. Now you want to talk about quality at work. I think the quality of employment is improved. Now, you must take into account, first, that you create more indefinite employment than in the rest of Spain. Secondly, there is more full-time employment than in the rest of Spain. And thirdly, that wages increase at a higher rate than in the rest of Spain. Let me give you an indefinite job. 73.2 percent of workers have an indefinite job, according to EPA. This places us above all the autonomous socialist communities of Spain: above Estremadura, Andalucía, Castela-A Mancha, Baleares and Valencia. And it's not a minor issue, the indefinite employment rate was lower in 2008, when you were ruling in Galicia. The indefinite employment rate in 2008, when you were ruling in Galicia, was 68%, today it's 73.2%. But let's keep going. Busy full-time, according to EPA, 87.3% of the occupied in Galicia. We are the third autonomous community with the best full-time daily data; the third. By the way, we are above the European Union. In Galicia 87.3% of the workers are busy full-time, and the average European Union is 80.5%. Wage developments. In Galicia, from 2008 to 2017, wages increased by 8%, in Spain, by 5.4%, which does not mean that Galicia is below average wages in the average of Spain. So you have to say everything, Mr. Leicega. What surprises me is that you're telling me about public employment, because I thought you knew Galicia had the lowest percentage of timeliness in Spain. I thought you knew that we have public employment offers committed, agreed and signed with the Workers' Commission or UXT, even sometimes with the IGC, with the CISF, etc., for health and education, which exceed the 16,000 jobs, which will place us at an interim rate between 5% and 7%; i.e. the highest rate of State interinence. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, I think you should tone your position. In fact, the interim rate in the central government of the State and in the local administration is not the same, but to criticize Galicia for having the best public service data in Spain seems to me to be inappropriate for a person as rigorous as you. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u24	Don't worry, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, I'll keep asking you about this while the situation is what it is, not what you're trying to represent. [[Applause]] Look, the thing that really concerns me is that you, as President of the Board, are so happy with the precarious situation that our youth has and that they also have a lot of workers and workers over the thirty years. That's what most attracts my attention. I don't agree with what we have. Look, your numbers would like to know exactly what they are. What is the number of people who are hired in an interim situation, for example in public health in Galicia? Give me a digit, an absolute number, how much is it? Because the figures in the statistics tell us about 6,500 people. Are they correct? That would indicate that the amount of timeliness in public health is above 25%, of which 25%! Those are the numbers. And in teaching we don't have the data either. What's the number of interiors in public education? You tell me, because to me what comes out is that we're about 15%. So far away from that 5% you say. Job offers are fine, but they're insufficient. And you know why they're insufficient? Because most of these offers are consumed by retirements that occur... yes, most of them. For example, in teaching, 1,300 retirements, 2,000 offers. There's 700, but there's also domestic promotion of 700. So in the end, we've turned 300 of those who are in the most precarious situation into fixed ones. Well, it seems to us that there's an insufficient pace, because to get to 5% with that effort, we're going to need more of this legislation and the next one. That's not enough rhythm. And in any case, you have several additional mechanisms that you can put in place. For example, social clauses in the procurement of public works and services, which would allow for the introduction of better working conditions in sectors such as transport, cleaning, security and social care, which would affect tens of thousands of workers and, above all, workers, because they are very feminized sectors. And we need something else, we need you to tell us that it happened with the Youth Guarantee initiative, funded by European funds, that it handled the Galician Union and that it failed so badly. How do you change this? The central government is launching initiatives, not only the rise of the minimum inter-professional wage, which will mainly affect Thursdays, but also a shock plan for youth employment, and I would like to know whether the Galician Union is willing to cooperate loyally so that this applies in Galicia with all guarantees and enables us to reduce this problem. I am not in line with the situation we have in the labour market, especially for Thursdays, that we condemn them to instability for too long — often over the age of 35 — and wages too low, and we need to change it. What's strange to me is that you're happy with that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u25	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, you must not listen to what I say. I say employment is the first priority of the current Government of Galicia. [[Applause]] You're worried about the job. I'm not surprised, Mr. Leicega, because the situation that Galicia left in the field of employment is to worry about: 50,000 unemployed in the last year of government is not a minor given; almost six million unemployed when you left the Central Government is not a minor given. What I am saying — and I reiterate — is that the forecasts of the strategic plan of the Greek economy are being fulfilled: that in Galicia unemployment is lower than the rest of Spain; that full-time unemployed are higher in Galicia than in the rest of Spain; and that indefinite employment is higher in Galicia than in the rest of Spain, accepting that Spain is one of the countries of the European Union with worse employment data. That's the context, Mr. Leicega, and in that context the recital. Mr. Leicega, when you were ruling, you couldn't talk about job quality because the only thing you could talk about was a month-to-month job collapse. There's a small and great difference, Mr. Leicega. What surprises me is that you invite me to follow and imitate the central government. Mr. Leicega, do you think you can raise the minimum wage by 22% in a year? Yeah? All right, all right. Mr Leicega, why would Airef — which is an independent body — warn you that the minimal destruction of jobs, if that measure is implemented, would be between 40,000 jobs less than 120,000 jobs destroyed? The Banco de España — an independent institution — warns that the loss of jobs in one year, if that increase of 22% was activated, would be less than 150,000 jobs. Do you know who's going to suffer this? The youth. Mr. Leicega, we had the agreement with trade union organizations to raise the minimum interprofessional wage for several years. Do you think Mr. Sánchez is more responsible than the Secretary General of Labour Committees? Do you think Mr. Sánchez will defend more workers than UXT's secretary general? Or is it necessary to do as Mr. Churches say? Mr. Leicega, do you see who you are with, with sensible trade union organizations or with the populism of Podemos, in Galicia and Spain? Tell me who you are, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] You also agree to raise taxes to the workers, you agree to raise taxes to the workers. Isn't that going to produce jobs? He's going to destroy jobs, Mr. Leicega, we warn him. Mr. Leicega, do we have to raise the minimum wage? The answer is yes. Do we have to do it reasonably, in several annuities? The answer is yes. But climbing it abruptly, simply to stay in the Moncloa, is to destroy thousands of jobs for young men and young men in Greece and Spain. Mr. Leiceaga, which surprises me in the field of public service. But do you not know that there are laws, basic precepts in the budget law, which have prevented all public administrations from making public offers of employment for many years? Are you now charging us that we had not made public offers of employment when your summons were prohibited by law? Now it turns out that the responsibility of this government, which has the lowest rate of interneity in Spain; now it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that after committing 16,500 new places in public job offers — in education, in health and in general administration — to continue to place us within the public administrations with more stability and with less timeliness in Spain, is this government responsible?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u28	Your Honor, I assume all the responsibilities but do not ask me to assume the responsibilities that affect the laws of the General Administration of the State approved in Courts. Therefore, according to these laws — because I am a Democrat, Mr Leiceaga — in Galicia employment is better than in the rest of Spain and public job offers and stability in the civil service is far superior to the rest of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u29	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. in Marea, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to reduce economic inequality in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u30	Question by Don Luis Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u31	Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, job insecurity leads to economic inequality and social inequality. Few jobs and low wages don't make it to live, but to the sum to live. And a just government, also in our country, should better redistribute wealth to correct this situation. This week, we also know Galician unemployment and social security affiliation. The number of affiliates in Galicia has fallen, while the state as a whole has risen by 0.69%. This situation is structural, in addition, in the Greek market, and our country's socio-laboral X-ray is alarming: there are 77,000 less people working than before the recession, and there is more precarious because all jobs created since 2013 are temporary, so the rate of time has already exceeded 26.8%. Women are the collective who suffer even more from precariousness, because their total rate of temporality is 22.6, that of bias of 22.6 and that of unemployment of 15.2; a precariousness that reaches absolutely scandalous values in younger people: 53% of temporary contracts, 28% working for hours and more than 30% unemployed. Within the precarious universe are the poor workers; that is, those more than 300,000 people entering less than the minimum wage. I'm one of three hired people. It's unfortunate to work and not get out of the poor. Added to these collectives, the X-ray of precariousness in Galicia amounts to 1.2 million people; people who often don't know whether it's going to end the month or what it's going to be the next month. In this situation, a government with social sensitivity is expected to act firmly and decisively in favour of social cohesion, the fight against precariousness and public policies that overcome this situation. On the contrary, we've seen a few weeks ago how their government has introduced a budget project that consolidates economic and social inequality and increases the privileges of the richest. Indeed, Mr Feijóo's Star Policy for this year has been a tax drop, and to whom do these taxes go? We took the property tax. The property tax records wealth in a pure state, that is to say, ownership of goods and rights of economic content once charges and engravings and any kind of obligation are deducted. And what does the PP do with this pure manifestation of wealth? Put the tax down to the richest. A real tax favor for the richest. Something that seems absolutely shocking and unfair to us. While a lot of people don't reach the end of the month, Feijóo — his government — gives millions of euros to the rich, and this should be known. This is the comparative chart of the evolution of wealth taxes until 2018 and from 2019. They're very obvious data. We're faced with a tax for rich people where, the greater the heritage and the richer the contributor, the greater the gift this year will be. So, for everyone to understand it, with three million euros, the rich will save — with their reform — 6,000 euros a year. If the estate is 6 million euros, it'll take 16,000 euros. And if you have more than 10 million euros, that is, our country's multimillionaires, they'll take almost 40,000 euros each year. His tax favor for the rich will cost everyone an allowance of 18 million euros. Mr. Núñez, how do you explain this tax favor to the rich while 40% of Galician citizenship doesn't reach the end of the month? How does this gift explain to the above as they drown the below? Two data and finished. Do you know how many risks you could pay with this gift? 3,700 annual risks. Do you know how many medical guards could be paid at PAC like the Road? Well, look, 60,000. And the question is, why do you rule only for the rich?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u32	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u33	You won't go to bed without knowing something else. Mr. Villares, 1.2 million Galicians are working precariously, i.e. everyone we work in Galicia is working precariously. Villares said. Take note of this great intervention, both in form and in depth. Mr. Villares, EPA just left, we're recovering the 2009 unemployment rate and we've created 24,000 new jobs. Now you're talking to me about October, but why don't we talk about the twelve months, including October? According to registered unemployment we have 16,000 unemployed less; i.e. 8.7% less, and in Spain, 6% less. But why lie so much, Mr. Villares? I'm convinced that you don't want to lie, the problem -- I'll tell you again -- is who does the papers. Women's employment. You say we're at a female employment rate... No, the female employment rate, female unemployment, in Galicia is 13.4%, and in Spain it is 16.2%. It is greater temporality in Spain than in Galicia, it is greater unemployment in Spain than in Galicia, it is greater female unemployment in Spain than in Galicia, and now you come here to say this kind of consideration without having a minimum respect not for Members, but for the truth. How can you say that there are 1,200,000 Greeks in work precariously, when we are 1,013,000 Greeks who are quoted to Social Security?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u34	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u35	Mr. Villares, you don't trust yourself either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u36	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u37	...of other sides—it's a council, Mr. Villares—it's a question of statistics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u38	Mr. Lake, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u39	The poverty rate in Galicia, Mr. Villares, according to the latest data from 2017, is 12.7%, almost three points below the Spanish average. But what you don't mean is that today, according to the National Institute of Statistics, the rate of poverty is lower than it was in 2008, and it turns out that this is not worth it either. Lowers the number of homes with difficulties; we have the lowest figure in the historical series. If you tell me if I'm in line with this, the answer is no. But this apocalyptic vision of Galicia, Your Honor, sympathizes with the respect and intelligence of the Greeks. On the property tax. What am I accused of, Mr. Villares? The only Government that we raised the property tax was us for five consecutive years, six: 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. The only government in Galicia that raised the property tax was us. What did we just do? Put it exactly the way it was when we got to the government. That's not lowering any taxes, Your Honor, no. We raised the property tax and now we keep it with the rest of the autonomous communities and with the rest of the state's tariffs. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, we've been raising the property tax for six years to demand greater tax effort on the highest income, and now we're leaving the property tax according to the state rate and according to the BNG and the PSOE when we arrived at the Government. By the way, I'm surprised you tell us that we have a wealth tax that benefits the rich, when it turns out that exactly the same rate as where you rule. And what do We Podemos de Castela-A Mancha want to benefit the rich of Castela-A Mancha? [[Muemurios.]] Mr. Villares, the same rate as Castela-A spot, where we can rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. I ask you to remind me that the only government that raised the estate tax was the government that I chair. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u41	The question is clear, is it fair that the multimillionaire people of Galicia, who have a net worth of more than ten million euros, receive a tax favor of 40,000 euros a year while there are 40% of Galician people who don't reach the end of the month? It's just that things are so clear. [[Applause]] We live in Galicia, we don't live anywhere else, and our situation is this. Explain this gift to the self-sufficient. Look, 55% of the self-employed report income...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u43	...bitch...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u44	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u45	The truth is uncomfortable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u46	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u47	It's very serious. It is EUR 791 gross per month declared by the self-employed. Tell him, see how it looks like you're giving those multimillionaires $40,000 a year. Explain the downside to the normal Galician families, the IGE says they're normal. Those who say they're now about 20% poorer than before the recession. That IGE that says 40% have trouble reaching the end of the month. What will the humblest people in Galicia think of their tax discount? In Galicia there are 492,000 people living in homes with lack of material resources, equivalent to 18% of the total. Maybe it won't look much to you. And inside there are 162,000 with severe material shortages. Talk to them, talk to them. In 2016, the last year with official data, there were 362,000 women at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Talk to them and tell them it's fair to give 40,000 euros to the wealth of rich over 10 million euros. In addition, explain to the young people, the young people who are at risk of 38% poverty and who are threatened by social exclusion, this downside. Junta will invest in 2019, in pre-doctoral scholarships, 7 million euros, and will invest in scholarships for university students 3.8 million euros. While this tax rebate will cease to enter the public archives nearly 18 million euros. This is an economic favor to those who don't need it by denying rights to those who need it. I'm going to give one last date that I hope our listeners will be able to use to draw their own conclusions, because I don't expect that from the President of the Board anymore, but from the people who are listening to us. There are 108,000 people in Galicia who are in severe poverty because they live in homes with incomes of less than EUR 342 per month. It's official data. Well, as it costs us your gift to the rich, who are almost 18 million euros, lives 54,000 people, almost half of Galicia's most needy population. And the question is, why do we have to stop this social injustice while there are people going through need? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u48	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u49	What else do you give? If you're saying that there's more precarious than the total number of people who work in Galicia. What else can I get you? You can say what you want! I give the data of the National Institute of Statistics: poverty rate in Galicia, 18.7%. Of course I'm worried! How are you not gonna worry me? But how can you say that Galicia has the highest poverty rate in Spain, if it has one of Spain's lowest poverty rates? How can you say that since we reached the Government the rate of poverty has increased, when the rate of poverty has decreased? The poverty rate in 2008 was more than 20%, in full economic prosperity, and now, despite the economic recession, it is below the year 2008. How can you say all this set of considerations when we are within the five autonomous communities with less percentage of people with severe deficiencies, who are in Spain: Navarre, Aragon, Castile and León, Cantabria and Galicia? And say one thing, and say another, and stay so loud! How can you say that we are currently lowering taxes to the rich, when of the more than 1 billion euros we lower taxes is a continued obsession down taxes on low income and average income for ten years of government? It's ten years of government lowering taxes to low income and middle income! [[Applause]] Between 2009 and 2018, EUR 1 billion was reduced to low income, to young people under the age of 36 for a used housing. Capital transmission tax, documented legal data tax, income tax, succession tax, with an objective: to lower average and low income. How can you say we're benefiting the most wealthy, if we were the only government in Galicia to raise the property tax? When we arrived at the government the property tax was like it is going to be from 2019, and now the responsibility is this government, which has raised the property tax to all those who have property for six consecutive years? How can you say that our fiscal policy is a tax policy for the rich, when it is exactly the same as where you rule in Castile-The Mancha? How can you tell me this, Mr. Villares? Because he doesn't care what he gives! Because you, as you say, speak to the audience. And the listeners, as the data are what you say and what I say, there will be people who say, well, we don't know exactly what the truth is! That is the permanent objective of the policies of the Tide of Podemos: to question which is the truth. The truth is you eat three times a day in Venezuela, point. There's no more truth than this. And consequently, when someone says, "It's not true, Mr. Erezón, you're lying to everyone, you just say: no matter what they say, the important thing is what the listeners say, what the Venezuelans say. To see you talk about severe poverty in Galicia in the name of that ideology, when we're receiving millions of Venezuelans who can't eat in Venezuela, it's something at least surprising, Mr. Villares, it's amazing to teach here! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Villares, Erregón says... forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, please those who are not from us who are silent, and those who are from us who listen. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u50	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u51	Erezón says that thanks to Maduro people make three meals a day. But don't you read what you say, Mr. Villares? I understand your concern with the people of Podemos, but that's what there is! Without Podemos, you wouldn't be there, Mr. Villares. I don't know if you know. Mr. Villares, our fiscal policy is the fairest policy with middle and low incomes. There has never been a fiscal policy that guarantees low and medium incomes in Galicia at the lowest tax pressure. Take note, Mr. Villares. And, please, about poverty and above all, any family in a poverty situation is a problem. quantifying people who are in poverty is a policy I don't share. Now, if I'd ask you something, you're ruling in many places in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u53	...the Galician Union is making the policy against poverty that doesn't make the mayors of the Podemos Seas in Galicia. Give me a hand, Mr. Villares, give me a hand, you and your mayors! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and three other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia, before the end of the 2018-2019 course, of Decree 132/2013 of 1 August, so that the possibility of providing different modalities for the management of the school dining service is effectively guaranteed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u55	We continue with the third point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals-- This proposal has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u56	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are going to speak in this proposal, not as a law, not as if the Pontevedra students in this case can eat or not, the difference in Venezuela's economics, but as a matter of the rules of the council itself. This is a political initiative that is not particularly clear, that I recognize, but that solves or should solve people's problems, and for that it is indeed important, and for that there is politics. It sets out this initiative on the dysfunction that takes place in school breakfast regulations, after there have been several changes in its regulation over the past few years. First of all, we have started — let me have a little historical reference — of a regulation which has been established since 1984 and which, with some other minor change, has changed in an important way in 2007 by publishing the decree of 10 that year, of 2007, which was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 6 February that same year. These regulations were developed through the publication of a corresponding order less than a month later; on March 5, the Order was published on February 21, 2007, which regulated the development of that decree. With the change of Government in 2013 the Government of Galicia issued a new decree, in which there are substantial changes that underpin the Government at that time on the basis that it is aware of socio-economic changes and that there are demands for concrete measures to reconcile family and work life. You're going to allow me to make a reference to what I put a decree and what I put another one because this is very relevant for the purposes of the debate we're having. First, in 2007, the board considered direct management by its own centre, direct management through the preparation of centralised meals in kitchens with the administration's own staff and the recruitment of food supplies. These are the modalities that generally require. And he spoke of -- and this is very relevant -- that the Educational Administration could exceptionally collaborate in the management and organization of the service of the respective municipalities, deputies and other public or private institutions, as well as other entities or collectives, such as the associations of mothers and parents of pupils and their federations. This was an exceptional modality. In 2013, Mr Núñez Feijóo said that he was involved in the management of the service by means of forms of cooperation and collaboration provided for in the current legal framework, all the public administrations with competing powers and the collectives and associations concerned, ultimately, the families themselves. And it establishes as management modalities: direct management by the board, indirect management, indirect management with recruitment through the service concession, management of the school dining room by public administrations other than the Galician board, and management of the school dining room by non-profit private entities, responsible for the recruitment and integral management of the service, authorized for the purpose by the board, as may be the case, in particular, of associations of mothers and parents of pupils and their federations. Then this decree says: "exceptionally...", and sets out another series of modalities for the management of the school dining room. So the previous ones aren't exceptional, they're ordinary. What's the matter? The problem is that the board has not developed this decree by an order that fits the service delivery scenario for these ordinary modalities -- we call them so -- as a general rule, and there is a major dysfunction. It is important that, in addition to the board itself, through the instructions published annually, it resolves by giving students from a school centre the possibility of eating another who has a dining room under certain conditions. And, in this case, counsellor himself does not at any time ask for permission from the student reception centre. That is to say, it establishes a general framework in which the council itself may authorize students from one centre to use another's school dining room simply for an organizational matter. I insist that the student reception centre is not asked for any kind of permission or permission so that these students can attend that dining room. This course, in the case of the province of Pontevedra, the ANPA Federation of Public Centres in this province requested permission to put into operation a school dining room that they would manage, in this case in an institute mentioned in the non-law proposal, but which does not seem necessary to mention here, and the school council in that centre did not authorize that dining room to start. At the same time to this impossibility, we find ourselves with another case, also in Pontevedra city, where the centre itself admits the possibility that former students who have attended primary school there, who are therefore now educated in other schools, can use the dining room. What's going on? We see that two antagonistic realities are given within the same stage, or the same theoretical scenario as it is conceived, and that in one case a centre offers a possibility and, together, another centre vetos that same possibility; a possibility that is obviously linked — as we all know — to an element of providing a complementary service, such as the school dining room, which is crucial to the reconciliation of family and work life. And this happens because there is no appropriate regulatory framework to allow — as I said before — to respond to various requests and organizational modalities. Frankly, our parliamentary group considers that, after five years of publishing a decree, the fact that an order has not been developed to regulate that decree and that it is in practice giving rise to different responses by the centres is a situation that shows the determination or abandonment — if they want, by smoothing the term — of the Educational Administration itself. And, therefore, it seems to us that it needs to be regulated by something as simple as an order. A command from the point of view to draw as a command. An order, from the point of view of policymaking, does not require a great display of time or means or processing. We're not talking about a new decree, which takes a process that, we all know, has to go through the Council of Galicia and follow a series of procedures. We're talking about an order that would be drawn up by the Council's technicians and that the only thing it needs for its entry into force, for its approval, is the signing in this case of the Councillor for Education. So we ask for something simple, we ask for something that can be done quickly and that would give an answer, of being a suitable policy development, that circumstances of asymmetry or manifest opposition are not given and, above all, leave to educational institutions the provision of a service that all of us — I believe that we are all here — and, of course, the administration itself recognises as fundamental to the reconciliation of the working and family life of people as the provision of the school dining service. In addition, we have to add that the educational administration in this case did not have any cost or commitment. That is to say, it is the ANPA Federation itself of Public Centres in Pontevedra who has applied for that permission and, therefore, would be fully responsible for the provision of that service. We understand that it is such a common-sense request that we are not at least in doubt that it will count on the unanimous approval of this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u58	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u59	Thank you, President. Once again in this House we have the necessary debate on school dining rooms, since it is a fundamental issue of our education system, to which we devote very important resources and we understand precisely that they should be destined to have the best possible dining system. It's not what we have in Galicia today. And we don't have it because the privatisation process is increasing. We don't have it because the logical profitful intention of the companies that enter to feed children and children every day in school dining can come into collision with their right to have a quality diet. That's why every year newspapers periodically collect news of pizzas and snacks for children and children, pre-cooked foods, absence of fish and vegetables; ultimately, unhealthy menus in schools that consume children and children every day; some really serious situations to which the Council should respond. For the Parlia­mentary Group in Marea, as we have already said in this House, the dining rooms should not continue to be considered a complementary service. No, no, no, no. Feeding our children should not be a complementary service, but a fundamental service. That's why it was already one of the first initiatives our parliamentary group has brought to this Parliament, and it will undoubtedly be the subject of more initiatives, because it has won three fundamental rights of our childhood: the right to public education, the right to good food and the right to health. [[Applause]] A fundamental service also to ensure equality of opportunity and which, as you know, plays a fundamental role in the fight against child poverty here in Galicia, not in Venezuela, here in Galicia, for contempt of the President of the Union, who should ensure the well-being of all citizens. [[Applause]] In our understanding, a priority area of educational performance should therefore be to preserve the health of young people and children educated in educational institutions. In that sense, school eaters should play a fundamental role, promoting improvement in the living conditions of students and promoting healthy lifestyle models that will accompany them throughout their lives. That is, schools, as we understand them, must be part of an integral model that promotes the improvement of the social, economic and health conditions of citizenship. Unfortunately, when we prioritize private business, we lose focus, we lose the transformative capacity of this space. So, unfortunately, in Galicia, we have more and more catering schools, many managed by global companies away from educational centres and that do not care for the products of time or proximity or anything, just the cheapest business. At the same time, we see how schools with their own kitchen are less and less, to such an extent that the Galician Union builds schools without kitchen and without dining room. Reasons for concern, therefore, remain, and that is why we think that the debate we should address here should focus on the model of school dining we stand for. What we would like, Mr. Álvarez, is that his initiative was more ambitious and addressed the root problem. For our part, we keep insisting. From En Marea we defend a 100% public model of direct and free management, so that all children and children in Galicia have guaranteed this service, a 100% public model that ensures food of proximity and quality, that does the service of dining what must be an educational space in which children and children in this country learn healthy lifestyles and socialize properly with their companions and companions. That is why we tabled our substitution amendment, which, of course — as I said — aims to be much more ambitious and global than the Socialist Group's proposal; a substitution amendment by virtue of which: "To urge the Galician Council, first of all, to defend the right of all children and children of Galicia to have a quality diet, regardless of the school in which they study, ensuring the necessary squares of public eaters in all schools in Galicia. Second: to recover the direct management of school dining by the Education Council, giving priority to fresh and nearby foods. And thirdly, to make a call to the entire educational community to set up a table for school lunchers that will allow you to consensualize a single model of school lunchers across the country." The measures we understand would help to avoid problems such as those that marked the voice of the Socialist Party and that would certainly put us on the way to making schoolchildren the best model for children in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Álvarez said it was not a showy initiative, but it is true that he has a quiet political fund. It is not to a large extent technical — Mrs Chao also said in her speech — because you appeal to the development of a decree, on 132/2013, which introduced major reforms in the model of managing the dining room service as a complementary service and, in addition, that was greatly answered and rejected by the educational community and, as it reaches this House, at least by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. A complementary service to the management of dining services which is closely linked — you already said, Mr. Álvarez, in your speech — to the right of conciliation, but also to the right of access to quality food, to balanced food, and of course also to food with products of proximity and which guarantee nutritional values, not catering and pre-cooked. It is a decree — I insist — that we since the BNG have firmly rejected it as early as 2013, when the counsellor, Mr Vázquez, announced that it would be passed. We rejected it for many reasons, but mainly for three reasons: firstly, it introduced compensation in service at a time of enormous economic crisis, and, in addition, it introduced this compensation to the whole of families, including those who had enormous economic difficulties. It introduced outsourced management — as has just been said — through catering companies, which I also assumed to be important marbles in the quality of service delivery and also important marbles in the nutritional values of the menus themselves that were being served. We have recent examples — there are many —. It used to refer to catering companies that were hired in other latitudes as could be Málaga. But we have a pretty recent example, which is the case of Gescor. Since the BNG we have brought this case to Commission 4a. It was the adjudicate of seven lots, and we talked about more than twenty school dining rooms that were scattered by many and distinct districts of the whole country, some of the Death Coast, some of the Tea Land. He was dismissed from his contract, he was in fact imposed sanctions for absolutely severe breaches, not only in the provision of the service in which he had to do with the quality of his own food, or even with which he had to take food to the centres — because there were centers, such as the Pastoral Institute, which were left without food for a few days — but also in violation of the labor rights of the people who were providers of the service, the caregivers or the people who were preparing the meals. And he also introduced — you referred to that in the explanatory statement and also in his speech — a fundamental change in the decree that had been governing since 2007, and it was that he gave a general character to matters that were so far exceptional. What prevailed until 2013 was that the priority management model or the one to be used in general was that of direct management by the kitchens belonging to the centres themselves and equipped with personnel directly provided by the Administration, or that the service was centralized in other centres and then distributed to other places, but again also with staff of the Administration itself. Now what was generalized was that you could outsource and privatize the service for it to be provided, among other things, by private catering companies, or even if it was lent by other entities other than the Public Service, such as the ANPA or others. We're not going to support from BNG. I believe it is logical and consistent that a decree should be developed, which we opposed in 2013 and that we continue to oppose to this day. At the moment we call for withdrawal and insist that it should be withdrawn and we must recover the public and direct management of school dining rooms. That's how we saw him defending. Now we're in the budget processing process for 2019 and there was an amendment exactly the same by BNG in the 2018 budgets. What we ask for is a recovery plan for the public in the management of school dining. We have also defended it on other occasions in Commission 4th itself. We understand the specific circumstances, Mr. Álvarez, of the two examples you set. But, of course, there is a substantive debate that has more political silence than merely technical. And, in that sense, every time there is an amendment, because we expect you to stand on the amendment, because it changes quite a lot the content, if accepted, of your proposal and then we will vote accordingly. But I'm saying we're not going to support a decree or develop a decree with which we're not at all in agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u63	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Álvarez, it seems that what you defined as an initiative of common sense and that I would count unanimously because at the bottom I was hiding something else and it seems that positioning is not going to be as unanimous as you wanted to venture. And there are clear positions, of course; there are those — as stated earlier — who have been against this decree repeatedly. You in the initiative are asking for the development of the decree and I have to say, as a political group that supports the Government, that we understand that decree is perfectly developed, that responds to the casuistics that enters within the framework of the decree. So we don't really understand the spirit or the reason for the non-law proposition. But look, before you talk a little bit more about the issues about the decree and what you were pointing out, I want to make a series of precisions, because there are statements that seem to us, of course, out of place. And if you come to talk about a system or a model that is, in some way, consecrating or reiterating the presence in school fast food dining. Little less here if you were talking about pizzas and burgers and things--no, no, not you, but I'm saying other speakers from other groups, specifically Mrs Chao-- talking about these issues, man, we have to deny the biggest one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know: there's a healthy menu guide, which is the one that's followed to feed in school dining. But, well, I've already filled Mrs. Chao's statements with two fantastic pearls. The first of them was to "defend a 100% public model." That's the model of En Marea: "We defend a 100% public management model." Man!, when claims are made with that roundness, it is generally good, to have credibility, that they are supported in facts. So if I make that statement and have facts behind them that refer to what I'm saying, for I gain credibility. But if I make a statement and behind, I don't have facts that refer to it, but quite the opposite, because credibility remains at least in an intrusion. Because, if that's the model of En Marea, why in the municipal management dining rooms in the municipalities where in Marea governs is used the method of catering, indirect management? Explain; explain why. It's that simple. If we have no facts behind them that support our words, our arguments remain empty and, of course, we move away from reality and we lose credibility. But, look, you were also making a statement in which I think it would hardly be worth going in when you were talking about child poverty. Because it came to establish different perspectives of child poverty. Look, for us child poverty is a problem as serious here as in Venezuela as anywhere else, eh! I imagine that for you children's poverty, depending on the regime or the government in each place, because it's more or less laudable or more or less defensive. That's the model of En Marea. Because you are permanently with that idea or that argument that is almost a new political paradigm, that kind of again illustrated despotism that you want to establish in the Greek politics and in the Spanish politics, which is: we impose our vision on the people and not count absolutely for anything with the people. That's the new vision of illustrated despotism that is very despotic but, of course, not illustrated. And that's his political paradigm. [[Applause]] Obviously, when we were talking about the decree and Mr. Álvarez in the explanatory statement of the non-law proposal, there is a fundamental aspect of the decree, specifically the exposition of reasons of the decree. And he said before that of participation or non-participation or that simile of illustrated despotism, because one of the fundamental aspects of the exposition of motives of the decree points to whether or not it is intended to promote participation in the functioning and government of the public centers of the educational community. The decree itself collects as a legal basis Article 119.1 of LOE, which points out that educational administrations will ensure the participation of the educational community in the organization, government, operation and evaluation of the centres. Then sign Article 119(2) of the LOE that the educational community will participate in the government of the schools through the school council. And finally, Article 120 of the LOE points out that the centres shall have pedagogical, organizational and management autonomy within the framework of the applicable legislation and in accordance with the terms set out in this law and in the rules which develop it. Well, if we are with the decree in hand and we see that we have to participate in the educational community, if we consult the educational community through its body of representation, which is the school council, and the educational community says that it does not want to be established, that this dining room is implemented, because we will have to respect the decision of the educational community. We are of course Democrats and we understand that if the educational community doesn't want the implementation of this dining room, because we have to respect its decision, and that's what also covers the decree we're talking about. Finally, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we do not understand that it is necessary to draft an order for the development of the decree, because the decree is being applied with absolute normality through the instructions that year by year enamel from the General Technical Secretariat to speak of the particulars of the development of the decree. So we understand that there is no need to draw up that order. We will therefore, of course, vote against this non-law proposal. Now, we also invite other groups to reflect when they talk about models and when they talk about political management, because of course there is nothing better to gain credibility than to support, as the People's Party Government does, their speech with facts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u64	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u65	Thank you, President. I'm going by order in the speeches, which seems to be what's going on. With regard to Mrs Chao's speech, look at the debate you are discussing — of course, of course — and in what we agree at the bottom, the scope and silence of this initiative is greatly transcended. The initiative is much simpler than all that. So we cannot accept the amendment, but not because we do not agree at the bottom of the amendment, but because the debate we bring is much simpler. We're just talking about publishing an order. We are talking about something that, regardless of whether we do not share the model — which we do not share — the model of the decree of the year 2013, can solve specific problems to people at a given time, and that is simply the orientation of our initiative. And you said you were sinning of lack of ambition. No, don't be short of ambition. He has all the ambition to respond to a group that has come into contact with our parliamentary group and has asked for help in a specific situation that they are living. That is simply the ambition that this initiative has to have, which I have already qualified at the beginning of my intervention of an initiative that is not particularly visible — and we admit — to it. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodil, the decree is what we have. We don't share it, you know we don't share it, we don't share the model. In fact, I remind you and Mrs Chao that the Socialist Parliamentary Group was the only, the only group in the House who, in the recent debate on the state of autonomy, brought an initiative, a motion for a resolution, in which school lunchers were concerned. You didn't bring any such initiative, we did. We do not share the model, but — I insist — we try to solve with this model which is currently a problem for specific people in a specific situation that has moved us. With regard to what Mr Fernández Gil said, there seems to be unanimity, except in the case of the Socialist Group, in which the initiative will be voted against, therefore a certain unanimity. It is possibly a historic fact in this Parliament that in the face of a demand for specific people to be solved by a specific problem, there is only one group that supports a concrete proposal. Look at one thing: you, who is a lover of logic, love that we share differently sometimes, but if the regulations respond to all the problems you pose and give a proper answer, how is it possible that in the face of identical demands you produce different answers? How is that possible? Because you know this situation is taking place. So the regulations don't have to be very well drafted right now. And you say they consult the educational community, because they're democrats. I've put a case and you know it's in the regulations, in those course principle instructions you've referred to. When the Council decides that students from one centre can go to another, not to consult the educational community, no, not to consult, it decides the Administration. So that same democracy should be for all cases, but it seems not. I was very glad that practically all his reply had been addressed to the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Merea, practically nothing related to the initiative itself. It must be that the initiative at the bottom makes some sense. It's hard to defend a "no" to this proposal. In any case, this is one more example than the Galician board regulations are a rule of stone card, it's an apparent regulation, but so scratches, it can't stand the least invited. Nothing more and many thanks to everyone for their support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u66	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and five other Members, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of the necessary management to prevent the closure of production centres and ensure the maintenance of the Alcoa company's jobs in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u67	There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, an amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one of the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u68	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u69	Yes, thank you, President. I'm going to put in the rostrum, because I think it's the most appropriate one, that claim that transfers me from the company committee during this debate, because I think I have to visualize the demands in situations like this one is more than relevant, Mr President. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada puts a T-shirt in the gallery]] [[Applause]] Greeting the members who accompany us from the company committee of the Alcoa plant in Coruña. I would also like to be present at this debate by the Economic Councillor, the Employment Adviser and the Industry Adviser, because he is the same advisor, and it would be interesting if he could have the necessary involvement at least to listen to the arguments of both the Committee itself, which we have brought here today, basically, as the positions of each of the political groups that we make up this House. Estefanía Muños, Emilio Gómez, Manuel Sánchez, Francisco Javier Fernández, Pablo Mallo, Rubén Amado, Miguel Conde... and so we could report up to 369 workers and workers of the Alcoa plant in Coruña, after a story — which we hope will not end — of fifty-seven years of operation. And so we could also report the names of the workers and the workers, of the 317 employees of the Alcoa plant in Avilés. And so we could also name each and every one of the people affected by the announcement of closure, of the extinct ERA, of all the labor contracts of the two plants, of the Coruña and of Avilés, formulated by Alcoa from Pittsburgh. Because we are faced with a business decision by a large multinational corporation that affects our economy, of course, but that essentially affects the lives of many families. In 1998, as we all know, the Government privatizes Inespal, in times when it was necessary to cash in public accounts, at the same time undermining the industrial public sector, certainly a public sector, productive sector, of a strategic nature. So the operation, as has been said on many occasions, was considered a real ballatazo. In twelve years, between 1998 and 2010, Alcoa earned around EUR 1,895 million, which increased by five precisely the price paid for Inespal, around EUR 385 million. Meanwhile, according to data from the Register of Goods, Alcoa's investments were located between 20% and 22% of the results obtained. Let's remember that at the time of the sale Inespal had eight work centers in Spain, the three current or nine-four if we consider the two centers in San Cibrao. In 2012, in the face of Alcoa's threat of closing Spain's factories, the Ministry of Industry launched the mechanism of interruption for large electricity consumers, a mechanism that has suffered, as we know, changes in the pox system, whose instability and the blocks that are being offered by power had a significant impact on large consumers, on the electrointensive industries. By the way, in the last run of this year, more than 200 million euros have been withdrawn from, or less, 500 million dollars that have been offered precisely in interruptability premiums since 2014. This mechanism of interruption, as we know, has injected about Alcoa Spain around EUR 1 billion, which we obviously pay all consumers on the bill of light, without any requirement. And it's worth highlighting this issue of technological improvements and no demands at all in these job insurance premiums. The experts, as we know, in different ditammes, have systematically defended the need of the system of premiums to electrointensive companies, through the interruptability, before —din — basically the variability of renewables and, above all, in view of the weak electrical connection of our system to the European electrical system, factors that obviously require urgent and unappreciable review of our model of electrical connection. He used to make President Feijóo, in the previous control session, a reference to a proposal that he would, of course, bring to Madrid a stable five-year supply system of interruptability premiums. It may be a way out to work at the meeting tomorrow, but we'd also like to know why in previous years, basically since 2012, you haven't been working with possibilities and offers where these auctions introduce stability to the system. Alcohol, as we know, does not compete solely in relocation with emerging countries. Alcohol does not compete with countries solely without labour regulation or without environmental regulation. Alcoa Spain, as the employees of the company committee know, is competing with France, is competing with Norway and is competing with Iceland or Canada, countries that have established a stable and competitive energy framework. The Coruña factory, the Alcoa factory in the Coruña, is a profitable factory in terms of labour productivity and production standards. It's not exactly the price of the energy you need, which is about 40% to 45% of production costs, the triple that in France or Iceland or twice that in Norway. But now this isn't the central argument that reflects Alcoa in its announced extinguishing file, or yes, they vary the versions. Precisely, since the company committee in Alcoa did not know the documentation until it was received yesterday by the multinationals, it is really difficult to come to value an extinct file presented in this manner a priori and illegal by the multinationals. Alcohol, by the way, declared 36 million losses in the third quarter of this year, but at extraordinary costs, because Alcoa earns money in Spain, especially from the intermediate product, of the alumina. On 23 October, in this House and by consent, we have reached an agreement between all political groups on the institutional declaration on Alcoa, an agreement in which we reaffirmed the commitment of all political groups here to the maintenance of activity and employment, an agreement in which support for workers and workers is transferred, an agreement in which the unilateral decision of Alcoa of unilateral closure of installations both on the Coruña plant and in Avilés and the immediate withdrawal of the ERE of extinction, an agreement in which the commitment to open a negotiating table between all the parties involved is accepted. But, essentially, on October 30, the Alcoa Inespal Business Committee of the Coruña presented, addressed to the President of the Government of Spain, to the President of the Galician Union, to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism and to the Councilman — as initially said — of Economics, Employment and Industry, his proposal for the continuity of the primary aluminium plants of Avilés and the Coruña, a proposal that relates the six essential points to ensure stability of the Coruña plant and of the Avilés plant. Again, all the political groups present in this House understand that we must support this proposal in a closed way and thus manage a process that guarantees the continuity and viability of the plants of Coruña and Avilés. This must be, like last day 23 in this House, the focus, the feeling of this debate, to reach this agreement unanimously, no less or less. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has presented this PNL which we now bring to this debate on the day following October 18th, that of Alcoa's announcement of the closure of the plants of Avilés and the Coruña. And our parliamentary group has also presented to the European Parliament the necessary urgent questions to the Commission, because, if the European Union is precisely forecasting that industrial weight on GDP is 20% by 2020, it is of course urgent that this industrial plan, which both the Council and the European Parliament are demanding, should also be put in place. But today what we must again achieve is a common position, not a partisan, a true pact for our industrial sector. Let us deal with the political groups of this House as much as possible the positions and amendments we have tabled, but let us take them as a basis — and that is what I would like to point out to all the political groups as a proposal — this new agreement submitted by the Alcoa da Coruña Business Committee. Hence the sense of our own amendment about our initial position. Because we play a lot on this invitation, we play a lot of direct jobs and a lot of indirect jobs. Many maintenance companies and service providers in the Coruña industrial area are highly affected. Saving the aluminium plant in the Coruña, looking for the most solvent alternatives, will mean saving much of our industrial fabric; failing will lead to a difficult wound to heal. We're not faced with an alternative, we're faced with an unacceptable obligation. The closures of Emesa, in 2013, or Sapa, in 2015, precisely also in Artexo, are very recent. We hope that the meeting, precisely for tomorrow, between the President of the Galician Union and the President of Asturias with the Central Government, will be a firm and firm step towards the future of the aluminium plants of the Coruña and Avilés. We certainly hope that the decisions and opinions of the labour and judicial authorities of Spain and Rotterdam will stop precisely the extinct ERE presented by multinational Alcoa. But let's prepare — and that's true — for critical decisions. That is why, on the part of our parliamentary group, what we want, precisely in the reconsideration of our bill and in this debate, is to circumscribe this agreement to support in a clear, clear and forceful way, before tomorrow's meeting in Madrid, the proposal for work submitted by the Alcoa Works Committee at the Coruña plant. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u70	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Please! Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no. Space is reserved for those who are in the use of the word, but... that's another story, but each group can bring to it, as long as it does not offend the dignity of the House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada removes his shirt from the gallery.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u71	Well nothing, if we have to be rotating the shirt all morning, we have no bigger problem; so we do a little exercise. Good morning to all and to all. On the side of the Nationalist Block, we also want to greet the workers who accompany us today and give our absolute support to the corporate committee and to each and every one of them for a discount. And, on the contrary, our support for the Socialist Party's initiative. We also tabled an amendment on a similar line, transmitting to those agreements that last October 30 the workers and workers both sent to the Council of Galicia and to the Central Government. We agree that it is a good starting point for consensus to move forward and for us to make serious proposals. Therefore, they have all our support. We, from BNG, think that we are at a time that requires commitment and also requires honesty. And, being honest, we have to say that we are a little concerned about this intervention today. A little concerned, first of all, because today my group had planned to have an inquiry with the economic, employment and industry advisor. For those who can be listening to us and don't know what an interpellation is, it's a little debate between the BNG, in this case, and the German Government, from what they then draw conclusions that are voted upon. And to us it seemed very important to devote in this plenary, that piece of our representation, to speaking more calmly and in dialogue, and to which there was a feedback with the Council of Galicia to move concrete proposals on the line of those presented by the committee and also with their own approaches, especially at the moment we are, where tomorrow there will be a meeting at the state level. And we are surprised that we are told that by decision of the Government this debate is adjourned. We received it with surprise, too, when we see today in Galicia's briefing forecasts that the Industry Advisor is in China. I imagine it's not something that happened to him yesterday at ten o'clock in the morning, that it was a prediction that the Government already knew, and therefore it seems to us that, since the Government is solidarityary, another government person should come to debate with us or that at least you could have warned this in advance. Because, from the point of view of the seriousness of what this historic moment requires, the fact is that we are quite concerned about having a missing adviser for the committee and for the groups. And it seems to us that it is also fair for anyone to follow this debate because he knows what happened. And we were also worried and worried — I think all groups — after listening to what Mr. Núñez Feijóo said right now in the debate with Ana Pontón, because it seemed basically that, instead of a President of Galician Union, we had a representative of the company here. And the truth is, if tomorrow is the position that will lead to Galician Union, of absolute incretion, which has transferred us to the President of the Union today, because the truth is that it was almost better than anyone else. [[Applause]] We — we have to say so — are quite concerned. And look, we could dedicate this intervention to putting the blame on the decisions of the Galician Union and the State of recent years of reaching this situation. We have debated on many occasions our position that interruptability is not the system, our position on how the Welsh industrial muscle is emptying, and we have serious discrepancies, of which we have often spoken. But we think that we are in another moment, in which we have to try to find consensus to get out of this crisis, and we are again convinced that it cannot be resigned and also convinced that there is an exit to Alcoa and that Alcoa does not close if we are who, from Galicia, to have a strong, argumentated and consensused position little by little to make that so. And so we want this committee proposal to be a new starting point today to have firm questions to move from tomorrow, because we are very concerned about the passage of time and see that we are not making qualitative progress. And in this sense, I think we all have to agree that a priority is that withdrawal from the dismissal file, which is a priority, too, as the committee says, to prevent a technical stop from the company. For us it is absolutely a priority — we insist from the very first moment — that this negotiating table be pushed where workers and workers have to be in absolutely every moment giving their opinion, and it seems very sad to us that such a forum has not yet been formed. And we also think that we need to open a debate about the stability that needs the energy frame, which is not interruptability, as Mr Feijó said. Now the magic recipe is that it's for five years. I want to remember that it was the People's Party's Government that made it the last change, reducing from one year to half a year. In any case, we understand that there is also another question to be put on the table. Time runs and there is a possibility that the state itself, that the administration itself has SEPI for something and absorbs control of the company when no solution is sought, a solution that is the purchase of another owner or owner, or the nationalization. But, in any case, they're alternatives that we have to look at and we need to talk about. So we want to invite the workers from this forum, firstly, not to become — we have possibilities and we are going to be there to support you — and secondly, that the Galician Union has to act as the Government of the country and has to take this matter seriously, with dialogue, with us, that we are part of the country, too, with the workers and workers, with the other groups, with absolutely all this country, in order to get Galicia to go ahead in this debate. Because today is Alcoa, but tomorrow other companies will come, and we're playing the future of our country, and we want a country with industrial muscle and not only for tourism, the Xacobeo and serving at the hostel. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u72	Thank you, Mr. Presas. Madam Presas, Mrs Presas! [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños removes the T-shirt from the gallery.]] Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You had yours there too. I could have brought her. He had his own, he was more of his own. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not about cleaning, it's about what he says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u73	Mine suffered from the weather conditions of the other day in the Coruña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u74	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u75	Yes, thank you. The countdown follows him, the threat of closure remains implacable there; then, we have to be very clear and very serious. The Alcoa company, if you listen here who's to blame, that if Iran passes, I don't know that, if it passes in Venezuela, I don't know how much, it'll be pissing with laughter. We can't get into that kind of debate. That only favors Alcoa's position. I hope we'll make it clear. It may look great for the friendly press, but what effectiveness is it? Zero. And from now on what needs to be effective. That's why we tabled a 13-point amendment, where the first six were such that the company committee was putting forward. The Socialist Party has now put forward the rest of our points. We agree if that means that there will be unanimity for now, as has happened in the previous plenary session. But fourteen days have passed and we have to move forward, it's true. We're going to support those six points, the first six points of our amendment, and give up the rest. But we think we should start talking about the rest. Why? Because we have to start talking, because there are 14 days left, another 14 days left. Within fourteen days Alcoa can thus give the high voltage switch and the company would be irrecoverable. So we have to make this clear. And we have to make it clear then that it means to urge Alcoa to withdraw the file from the collective dismissal, which is what raises the first point of the committee's proposal. Well, that's what the Socialist Party gentlemen were supposed to say. Does it mean the Ministry of Employment is going to put the ERE back, which will legally argue to put the ERE back and make time? We have to start talking about concrete things. The second point the committee says is to establish the necessary and urgent mechanisms to prevent plants from entering a technical stop. This has a name, and we must begin by saying this: Article 128.2 of the Constitution. Do we agree with all the parties, all the parliamentary groups represented in this Parliament, in which, if Alcoa, on 1 or 2 December, the day I touch, would you like to put this on the edge of the 220,000 volt switch that they have there in Alcoa in the Coruña, will we allow it? Will the Spanish state allow it? That's to start talking about it and know what position we're going to have, because there's fourteen days left for that and in the next round maybe we're not in time. Then, of course, the creation of the negotiating table with a time of eighteen months. But, of course, to have those eighteen months, maybe before we make very concrete and very hard decisions. Installing the Ministries of Industry and Transition to prepare a new power regulation in that period. Well, we've got to start talking, 'cause the new breakout is going to have to be in three or four weeks. You'd have to start talking about how that pox has to be. For example, in one of our amendments we proposed that companies be discriminated against in two pockets, in one for which the price of electricity is essential for their viability, among which is Alcohol, of course, but also many other Welsh, such as Ferroatlantics, Megasa and some more, and, on the other hand, other companies that are entering the outlets of interruptability but for which help is not absolutely essential for their viability; it is a contribution to their industrial development, technological, etc., but does not directly involve the closure of the factory. So, of course, what about this? That for those who are indispensable ask for as much help as possible, the others accept less money, and that's what happened last year, and that's why they dropped so much interruptability aids. So we propose that the pox be divided into two independent poxs. Of course, the fifth point of the committee is to link to employment, which is obvious and I think there will be no problem that we all agree on. Then point 7, urge the Ministry of Industry and Galicia's own board to monitor and regulate the entry of the outer metal of Alcoa plants by Spanish ports, this is a complex issue and that's why we have to start working. This, in essence, would be to convince and fight in the European Parliament to establish environmental tariffs. It can't be that aluminum with a huge footprint of CO2, almost ten times higher than the aluminum that develops in Galicia, can enter the port of Vigo without any problem. I think, of course, it's a very complex subject; I mean, we're not going to say that with a magic vein, it's going to be solved, but we have to get to work. That's why we think we have to start thinking, of course, also that the current government will make it clear that it will immediately develop the budget split of 150 million euros, and we don't have to debate whether it's late or soon; others have two years to do so and they haven't. Let's not get into that debate. The debate is the 150 million above the table, the pause of interruptability as soon as possible and, above all, make it clear to the company that on 2nd or 3rd or 4th of December will not be able to give the switch, the 220,000 volt machete, and leave the vats unused forever, that this would indeed be the end of Alcoa-La Coruña and Alcoa-Avilés. So, please, drive, but start talking about how to solve this problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casal. The T-shirt, please, the T-shirt. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. For T-shirts it won't be! And the shirt is very important, but much more important is sweating the shirt. And sweating the T-shirt is what the Galician Union is doing, and that's what the Government of Spain has to do. [[Applause]] And, therefore, I would like everyone to defend the T-shirts of all Galician workers, as well as the workers' T-shirts of Ence, as well as the workers' T-shirts of Elnosa, as well as the workers' T-shirts of Reganosa, as well as the workers' T-shirts of Pontes and Meirama's thermal power plants. Mr Villoslada, indeed, the Industry Adviser is not in this plenary, because he is in China, he is in Shanghai, participating in the International Exhibition of Imports, which is being held these days in Shanghai, accompanying several Greek entrepreneurs who want to deepen the export of his products. Exports in the last year have reached 15,257 million euros of invoicing. Export is fundamental for the Greek economy. Exports beat records year after year. Last year they grew to 6.5%. And, therefore, the Economic and Industry Councillor accompanies Greek companies in Shanghai in this Imports Exhibition, because we have to open up to new markets and support our entrepreneurs. Supporting Alcoa, of course, and the Alcoa workers, but also supporting our country's production fabric set, which has to export for our economy to grow. I had the opportunity to talk to him this morning and we coincided with the importance of unanimity today on this subject that has to do with Alcoa. We think it's a subject that requires a lot of sensitivity, because behind this problem there are 400 families who are worried about their future. And, therefore, I don't think you can make politics with certain matters, what you have to do is manage it. I don't think it's about finding guilty, because we'd all be able to find guilty over the time of the current situation; what it's about looking for solutions, as the President of the Board said this very morning. In this House we have a unanimous agreement, reached fifteen days ago, a unanimous agreement, promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group, through a proposal not for the law of our group, a unanimous agreement that supported the Alcoa workers and their demands. The Socialist Party submits a non-law proposal that in its original wording I think it decaffeinates the agreement of fifteen days ago, but with that self-amendment that is put forward I think it presents novel elements, that we want to make clear that we are going to support, because we believe that politics cannot be done at all, that there are issues in which we have to be united and work together, and on that question I regret that certain groups intend to include cracks and open interested debates or partisans that I think do not contribute to anything. And so I think we actually have to work in this direction, as the German Government has done over the past few months. At this first meeting of the President of the Union with the new President of the Government, with Pedro Sánchez, the problem of Alcoa has already been raised. At subsequent meetings of the Councillor for Economics and Industry with the Secretary of State for Energy, with Mr. Abascal, this question was also raised, last August, when no one here was still talking about this matter. We also took him to the Sectoral Conference of Industry on October 3, when Minister Maroto was asked to ensure a stable and competitive price of electricity. We believe that we must send a clear message to the Alcoa workers, a clear message to the Government of Spain, a clear message to the leadership of Alcoa, and that they have the unanimous backing of this Parliament, of the Parliament of Galicia. Tomorrow there is a very important meeting with the Ministers of Industry and Energy Transition, in which the Principality of Asturias and also the Council of Galicia will participate, and we believe it is good that we maintain unanimity and maintain a good climate of consensus and support for a claim that is not of anyone but of all the Greeks and all the political groups that we make up this Parliament. What do we demand? A stable electrical framework for companies, the electro-intensive industries for the next five years, which unlock these EUR 150 million so that Alcoa has no excuse to justify that closure, and what we demand is that the company immediately withdraw that ERE it has presented. Our proposal to support the demands of the company committee is complete. We ask the current Government, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the same thing we ask the Government of Mariano Rajoy in 2014: a solution, a solution for Alcoa to keep his activity and for Alcoa to keep his job. And, therefore, we believe that we must work and influence what unites us and not what separates us, and therefore advance the vote in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group on the original drafting of the Socialist Party and the amendment to add that the Socialist Group itself has made to its original initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u79	I would like to thank all the political groups present in the House, precisely first of all, for the obviously tone of the interventions, because I think it could be no other way, and, secondly, the content of the different exhibitions by each of the three groups, which have presented or not amended, which have just intervened. Because I believe, as I said in my initial intervention, that today, like last day 23, is not a day to present absolutely partisan positions. That doesn't mean that each political group, of course, has its partisan position, has its ideology and has its way of seeing clearly the industrial future of Galicia and the mechanisms for that future to be guaranteed. But, of course, we are at the forefront of a meeting like tomorrow's in Madrid, and I believe that the important thing for us and for all was precisely today to visualize a great pact, again, of this House by the plants of the Crown and also of Avilés, and in that sense, that better way of doing it than expressly supporting the proposal that the company committee of the Crown plant had presented on the other October 30th, in front of the Government Delegation. In that sense, Mr. Tellado made a reference. We betrayed this non-law proposal, precisely because we felt it was absolutely necessary to keep the debate on Alcoa alive in this House, to keep the focus on the great problem we have in the industrial area of the Coruña, but I believe that in all the industrial fabric of Galicia, and in that sense, precisely for this reason, we presented an amendment to make us and to make this whole House the proposal submitted by the company committee. Even we, of course, in the interests of that common position, would withdraw the initial wording to only circumscribe the text of this GNP to the amendment we tabled the other day. To finish by analyzing these issues of how large multinational corporations work and even — and I don't want to get out of the Tiesto — by observing some of yesterday's actions of the Supreme Court, although I think it would be and it is still of the utmost interest to analyze many of the considerations that Professor Boaventura de Sousa Santos made us on the paraninfo of the University of Coruña on September 19 because of his investment as an honorary doctor caused, when he presented us provocatively that dichotomy, that permanent dialectic between democracy and neoliberal capitalism, such as that tension between those who regulate whom it is important to analyze the situation in which we find ourselves. I invite all members of the House to listen to this magnificent conference of Professor Boaventura de Sousa at the paraninfo of the University of September 19th. In any case, I believe that today we have a cause for joy, yes, because we unanimously support the Alcoa works council on the Coruña plant, but one reason — I insist — is still of utmost concern, in which we all have duties, both in Santiago, of course, and also in an important way in Madrid and also in the European Union. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u80	Do you accept the amendments to the Block and the Tide?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u81	Logically, as I was commenting, we will reject the amendments, since I think we will circumscribe all the text of the GNP that we bring here today literally to the self-amendment that we tabled by our group. Nothing else. Thank you. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u82	Thank you. When we finish the debate on non-law proposals, we start with the votes. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla Fernández. He accepts the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the staffing of the Galician Emergency Service Unit of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela of the human and necessary materials demanded by the staff of the center. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u83	We are now voting on the proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia on the initiative of Ms Teresa Egerique Mosquera. The amendments of the groups that presented them are not accepted; in particular, the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Group and the Group of En Marea. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union for actions aimed at the signing and implementation of the protocol between Aecosan and Intemar. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 34. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u84	We now vote for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago. I have an notes here pending a transaction. I don't know if he got to her. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] Yes. Give him a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u85	Since one of the groups has already compromised their support yesterday, although there are differences of hue, in order to facilitate a unanimous pronouncement by the House we will maintain this position of minimums to facilitate the agreement and to make the demand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u86	Do we vote as you are?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u87	We vote the way it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u88	We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Alberto Pazos Couñago and nine other Members, on the demand to the Government of the State for the realization of the deadline and the formula chosen for the abolition of the pay of Roundola. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u89	We are now voting on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. There are no amendments. The motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in connection with the negotiation process that is being developed for the establishment of a new wage agreement for the Navantia auxiliary industry staff in the Ferrol River, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u90	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz. I have noted here that I accept point 1 of the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, and the transaction of point 2 is pending. I don't know if they've reached an agreement with him. Have they reached an agreement? Then read it, if you please. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u91	Accepted point 1, which is: "He urges to speed up the declaration of cultural interest of the Pasadempo Park, reducing the processing deadlines as far as possible." And point 2 would be like this: "To provide technical support to the Betanzos Council for the development of the rehabilitation project, involving other public administrations, seeking other possible financial support and working economically to ensure the achievement of the project."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u92	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the processing of the dossier to declare the Pasadempo park of Betanzos, as well as the financing of the works for its rehabilitation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u93	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro Araújo. A point vote is accepted, I understand. Then we would vote, first of all, point 1, which happened to me and me. Or do you want to read it? I'll read it. It says point 1 in particular: "Acting in the labour conflict in the craft sector of the sea through the competent councillor, that he must take an active role in mediation between the legal representation of workers and employers Congemar to reach an agreement in a collective agreement that improves wages, the quality of employment, the working conditions, reduces timeliness and strengthens supervision of subcontracting." This is point 1, which is what we are going to vote on. Vote for the transactioned text of point 1 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. In Marea, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the labour and wage conditions in the area of freezing and cooling of sea products. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. The first point of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u94	And now we would vote on the rest of the points, which are 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, and include amendments to the Parliamentary Block Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. In Marea, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the labour and wage conditions in the area of freezing and cooling of sea products. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u95	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and three other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia, before the end of the 2018-2019 course, of Decree 132/2013 of 1 August, so that the possibility of providing different modalities for the management of the school dining service is effectively guaranteed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 40; abstentions, 20. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u96	Finally, we voted for the Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. Finally, all we are going to vote is the self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. That's what you said. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I mean, he's been saying from there that he took everything away and that he voted for the self-amendment... but how he added it. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] How to add the initial. It has to be, of course! Let's see. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u97	In order to reach the agreement that we were discussing, the final text of the GNP would be limited to the self-amendment we tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u98	Is that correct? [[The lawyer pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He says it's right if there's unanimity. Is there unanimity?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u99	That's what we talked about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u100	I'm asking the group. Is there unanimity? Do you all agree? All right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u101	That's what we talked about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u102	Then we voted. That's what I said at first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u103	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u104	We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and five other Members, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of the necessary management to prevent the closure of production centres and ensure the maintenance of the Alcoa company's jobs in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u105	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 4 of the agenda, which is interpeleration. Interpellation of G.P. of En Marea, on the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, on the policy of the Government of Greece in the field of protected housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u106	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u107	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. The Supreme Court's yesterday ruling on mortgage taxes, I think it explains a lot of the things that have happened in this country about the contempt for people's right to live. Explain some public authorities to the service of the bank. It explains public policies for the business of the bank within the housing sector. And he explains the low democratic quality of the Spanish state, where he pushes from the bank to the court to change a decision to favor the bank. Of course, the banks are already on the stock market today, and we must stand the shame of having to endure these institutions that decide against the social majority. That is why, of course, we call for civic mobilization against these decisions. Also, Counsellor, a case that is happening in the city of Vigo these days, Elisabeth's, with three younger children, explains many of the things that happen every day in this country. Daily and often without knowing. I mean, a woman with children in charge, one of the most vulnerable groups at all levels, but also on the issue of housing, is threatened by a vacuum fund, Cerverus, managed in the Spanish state by José María Aznar's son, who does business at the expense of people and also does business with the tax benefits approved by governments that they claim to defend the general interest. That woman is threatened by a defiance and she got a month's adjournment yesterday, apparently. I had on the table the offer of help from the Town Hall and the Council of Galicia, and let's see what they are. The Town Hall seems to be — according to her words — that she offered a month of help to pay her rent. And the Galician Union, as a housing alternative, proposed a residence in Vila de Cruces, 130 kilometers from Vigo. That's the reality that many people suffer in this country, that's the drama that many people suffer in this country, because of the lack of public housing policies, because of the absolute lack of willingness to defend the constitutional right of this sacred constitution, for when they are interested, which says that we all have the right to enjoy a decent housing. You, the People's Party, never bet on changing the speculative model, the business model, against the right to housing model. Never. They always acted in favour of that same model. You have approved an amendment in the Government of the State of the Law on Urban Rentals, to reduce the stability of tenants from 5 to 3 years the minimum duration of the contract. You rescued the banks with public money, billions of euros of public money, and you didn't put them at the service of the people who needed it in those years, where on average in this country you'd run the risk of six people. And they didn't put them up to make a public rental park because the banks themselves were pressuring the governments not to do so because they would lower the housing prices and would therefore lower their assets in the balance sheet. They didn't comply with the Law on local farms either. You systematically, since the State Government, have blocked the application of the Act of local estates where it has to do with the definition of empty housing, and therefore make it impossible for those municipalities who want to apply a charge in the empty dwellings of large owners. So there is no favourable fiscal measure for the mobilization of empty housing in a country like Galicia, which has 300,000 empty homes. You paralysed the public housing park and approved Law 8/2012, Galician housing, which allowed the downsizing of the soil reserve for official protection housing of 30%. Whenever the municipality so wanted, it could be adapted to what is the demand in the plaintiff register. So, we see that the whole set of these policies obviously doesn't happen to the reality that we're living in. Reality that in Galicia is marked because in 2017, according to official data, the rejections again increased, almost ten years after the outbreak of the so-called crisis. It's no coincidence, for all that, that with wages, with precarious jobs, people can't even access a mortgage and, therefore, climb people who access the rental market. The rental market has no kind of regulation to regulate prices and conditions, on the contrary, is the law of the jungle, the law that favors voitre funds like Cerberus, rises the rent demand and therefore rises the prices of this. Wages do not grow and therefore rise the disqualifications spectacularly for non-payment of renters. That's what's happening today, and you haven't put in place a single of the measures the experts have to take to regulate the real estate market in order to provide people with a right to housing. You didn't substantially increase the rental public park, which is ridiculous in this country. You paralyze the construction of houses of official protection. In 2010 started in Galicia 2,900 houses of official protection, and official data indicate that in 2015 it was 5, in 2016 it was started 6 and in 2017, 12. That means 0.2% of what started in the state, a ridiculous figure, which speaks well of the clears of its policy, - I said - of the Housing Law. It also speaks of the abandonment of the IGVS of protected housing and public promotion housing policies, and the lowest execution, year after year, of budgets. That has a translation into people's lives, and today in Galicia there is no measures to regulate rent prices, no measures to encourage the rental public park, no budgets to do so, and no resources to have housing alternatives for people who already reach that dramatic end as it is to live a defiance, which you think should no longer suffer; that is, action should be taken by preventing it before. So we believe that you, of course, never put up with changing this model at all. They're still supporting the business above law. But they didn't even run the patches and cosmetic measures that you did. Not even those measures that you announced the bomb and the plate proved successful. The Star program for the housing mobilization of Galician Union, the empty housing program, had a running rate of 3.2 % in 2017. Of €300,000 in execution — a very low budget — only €10,499 were executed. A shame, a failure of the program, as well as the failure in the housing access program to run 40%, and only 2 million out of the 5 million that was to help access people's housing in that year in which the evictions increased. Elisabeth herself, this lady of Vigo, said that she wasn't helped by the rent that they gave both the Galician board and the State Housing Plan, because the prices were shot in the city. Nor does he have the alternative of going to the Village of Cruces because he has his children in school, because he has to look for work, because he has to live. You can't go from day to day at 130 kilometers this lady. So this lady is saying that she has no use for the policies that are currently in force and that you have begged so much. What we ask you, Counselor, is: are you planning to change your policies? Have you considered making a critical analysis of the results of your policies over the past few years? Do you intend to do this honestly and recognize that with the measures that you have taken, the problem is still there and that it even gets worse, that there are people who have no incomes and who are hired year after year, who don't have a security horizon in their home? They recognize that their measures do not even serve to give them a housing alternative to the most serious cases. They recognize that there is none of the measures that I cited in motion to regulate the rental prices. They recognize that we move from the real estate bubble from mortgages to the rental bubble. They recognize that, especially in the cities of Greece, the prices of rent are rising dramatically, wages do not rise to the same extent, we have a serious problem now, and we will have it in the next few years if you don't act, if you don't act from all public administrations, also from the state and the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u109	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all and all. Mr. Sánchez, if anything I liked about your intervention is to say that all administrations have to contribute. How easy it is to talk and how hard it is to act! You have the opportunity to prove that you can and can do it well. So far they have shown absolutely nothing in the cities in which they are ruling. You mentioned a person. I believe that these people, far from using it, must try among all administrations to give them a feasible and viable way out. And if, for example, the Vigo Town Hall adhered to the Empty Housing Program, I'm sure that this lady, instead of offering her a residence in Vila de Cruces — look!, not only in Vila de Cruces, but if they're looking for other alternatives — could be offered in the same Vigo. Regardless of all this, Mr. Sánchez, the Council of Galicia has been betting on housing policies for almost a decade, facilitating access and focusing attention on the most disadvantaged. They are policies adapted to economic reality and to the demands of society, they are changing according to those demands of society and they are made for the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. And be sure that's how we did it, and so we're going to keep doing it. An example of this effort is that the housing access measures we're applying from the Union will reach more than 7,000 families this year, and believe me that in 2019 we're going to get over this number. You were transferring in your question in writing a series of statistics, and I want to show you from here not only statistics, but realities. They are the realities of Galicia and the realities of the policies of this council. From the German Government we are promoting housing programs of public promotion of new construction but also of rehabilitation, which we understand fundamental in a society in which we have a number of cities with old helmets in which we can, on the one hand, rehabilitate and, on the other hand, facilitate access to housing, whether on property or through rentals. Our performances are focusing on big cities. And why in big cities? Because, in fact, this is where there are greater demands, not to mention, of course, the municipalities of other categories where the number of inhabitants refers to, and, in that sense, for the municipalities we have the Master's Housing Rehabilitation Programme, the Cooperation Fund with Town Councils or Rural Infringements; and that is where we all have to bet for society. The figures are clear, and we now have a total of 129 buildings in construction. There are 40 in the Ofimatic Park of Coruña, thanks to an action that we took in August and in which 5 million euros are being invested; 61 houses in Vigo, in the streets Chantada and Ignacio Covas, with an budget of 8.8 million euros; 22 dwellings in Ourense, in the streets Covadonga and Cervantes, with an investment of 1.6 million euros; and 6 in the Town Hall of Cenlle where we are developing a pioneer project of modular housing with a million euros. And a total of 28 rehabilitation homes, distributed as follows: 5 in Ourense, where we invest about a million euros; 9 in Lugo, with an budget of 1.3 million; 12 in Betanzos, where we are investing 3 million euros; and 2 in Mondoñedo, with an investment of 400,000 euros. In total, Mr Sánchez, we are currently pushing 160 homes, with an investment of 22 million euros. But this doesn't end here, and in 2019 we won't stop. Moreover, we will continue to promote these kinds of policies — about which I have already advanced them in Commission 3 a few days ago — we will continue to work on ensuring access to homes for all Greeks and Greeks and, of course, we will not leave anyone destitute. With this objective, the budget of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo increases by 3%, from 92.98 million euros to 95.70 million euros in 2019. With Xestur and Consorcio Galego do Casco Vello, the total budget is EUR 119.6 million. I mean, the effort is reflected in the budgets. To provide new public promotion housing next year we will have €7.6 million, and we will continue to build small modular housing groups of public promotion and single-family typology, thus boosting innovation in the area of building. We will continue to pay attention to all the groups who need it. So, we will put in place the help needed to build homes for older people, with 2 million euros, always with the goal of responding to new demands, which are the new demands of an advanced society. On the other hand, we will convene aid for the acquisition of housing in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants for under 35 years of age, thus fulfilling a double objective. On the one hand, that less-inhabitable municipalities can continue alive and, on the other hand, so that on Thursdays, which is a vulnerable collective at the time of the acquisition of a housing, we can make life easier for them to acquire them. In this sense, we are going to allocate EUR 800,000 in 2019. We believe that the promotion of residential soil for protected housing, both private and public, is essential to meet the demand of such housing in large cities as well. In this line we have an urbanizable soil gestur in Ferrol, Lugo and Pontevedra, and we are acting in the Olympic Park of Coruña, where, together with the 5 million we have seen this year 2018, we will have 3.5 million more for 2019. As for the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, we will continue with the expansion of San Paio de Navia in Vigo, which in 2019 we will allocate 6 million euros. But we not only bet on new housing, but we will continue to rehabilitate empty houses in historical helmets. This commitment for rehabilitation is reflected in the 2019 budgets and is made with 36 million euros. This is a 9% increase over the year 2018, but if we analyze the last two years, the increase is 20%. In this line of action, the Regurbe Plan has a budget of 7.3 million euros. In fact, people bet on rent. They are new trends and indicators, indeed, depending on the crisis or simply because they change the trend. That's why we bet on promoting rental as an effective formula for access to a home, especially with the mobilization of dozens, thousands, homes and homes that remain unemployed in our community. And then, of course, we heard the hand of all those councils where you rule and where they had the opportunity to actually convert everything they said, but we found ourselves that nothing was done at all. Of course, you can't always live as headlines, they've passed by about three years and, at the end, not a single one, the only city that joined was Santiago, and for that you didn't even get to work. We keep talking about the budget of the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil for 2019, which provides 7.2 million euros for renters, increasing the budget by 38%, but I see that you don't like to talk about data and budget, they like to say that there are problems. There's actually problems, but when there's them, there's the Council of Galicia, it's weekend or at any time. In addition, we will allocate more than 1.6 million euros to the maintenance of the public housing park on rent. Even so, we will articulate aid to promoters, municipalities or cooperatives for the construction of leased housing with an obligation of destination at age 25; a program in which the investment for the year 2019 will be EUR 2.3 million. It will agree with me that the current trend is to focus efforts on mobilising empty homes to put them on the market at a limited price, or at least that's what you've agreed to in Madrid with the current Government, we don't know if this will eventually go ahead or not. What we do know is that in Galicia, thanks to its stability, it's going out ahead. It's done in Galicia, it's being proposed by the central government and, of course, the indicators tell us that we're on our way. So there's something we agree on, in the mobilization of empty dwellings, and that's why we all have to get to work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u111	Of course, we also focus on the most disadvantaged, those people who for one reason might be in situations like Vigo, and actually give them a solution. The quickest possible solution, but also the most feasible one, and within the orders that the Council has and which it takes forward to the Council of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez. On the replica round so much the word Mr. Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u113	They understand me because they may be very susceptible. I don't want to call them pigs, nor do I shoot margaritas, but trying to have an honest house debate with you is like throwing margaritas at pigs. Because what you came here again is not to be serious about this subject and to divert the debate. He insisted again on the council mantra, that's all right! Look, you say what happens to this lady, if Vigo's Town Hall joined the empty housing program, she wouldn't pass and have a living in Vigo. How can you lie like that? How can you lie like this if fifty-three municipalities were joined in this program and only sixteen houses were made available? Only sixteen homes all over the country! You should be ashamed to come here, even above, to demand that program. You, if you were honest, would come here and say why you only put sixteen dwellings in this program. Why? Why? [[Applause]] But you're not going to come here to say this, [I'm going to come here and throw shit at others] so as not to assume your responsibility. [[Words withdrawn by Mr. Sánchez García.]] That's what you're gonna do here. Look, you said, what can be done here... modulate your attitude and speak seriously once and for all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You said that the solution you gave this lady, which is to give her a dwelling 130 kilometers away, was what can be done within the orders that are currently approved. Well that's what we're talking about, that the orders currently passed are not meant to give this lady a solution, and today's public park in Galicia does not serve to give a solution to people like this lady. That's what we're saying. When an administration like the Galician Union gives it an alternative to go 130 kilometers, from Vigo to Vila de Cruces, something doesn't work. And you should at least have the humility to come here and recognize it. It's okay! You have raised the issue of budgets again. See, in 2010 -- I don't put it to you in 2009 -- in the 2010 budgets, do you know what housing budgets meant in relation to this country's wealth, with GDP? 0.29 % of GDP. And with its rise -- they're soaked today -- they're going to be 0.13%. You said textually: the effort is reflected in the budgets. For, of course, your living effort is reflected in this fall in the weight of housing functions in your budgets. You don't care about people. [[Applause]] They care about a fool because they're keeping the same policies that they've thrown out the people in their homes. You're talking about the municipalities. When more defeats occurred in Galicia it was when he ruled in the state, in the U.S. state and in the major cities of Galicia the People's Party. Look at the figures and the statistics and you'll see that it was there when there were more defeats. You avoid talking about your responsibilities just as you avoid talking about why the construction of official protection housing has been crippled, mainly due to the approval of your law. In 2010, 2,900 houses of official protection were built to 4 in 2016 and 12 in 2017. And now promise us, as a great promise to reverse this situation, about 200 and little housing. In 2017, in Navarre, which has not yet reached 600,000 inhabitants, began 192, and is on the state average building of official protection housing. You're talking to me about figures that produce laughter, and that's the reality, Counselor. If you want to be serious once and don't take people's hair off, do it, but what you're doing here is missing out on all those people who are suffering from one of the worst dramas a person can have, which is that they throw them out of their home with their children, and that's happening every day in this country. And it's happening every day because their policies seek to favor banks, as we saw yesterday in the Supreme Court's judgment. In this country, at the legislative level, at the executive level and at the judicial level, the bank was sheltered against the rights of people. And here it didn't matter, when people went, that in this country six families were on the street every day while they were putting billions of euros on the banks, right? And nothing happened! And you only acted when it cost the election, and you put on cosmetic measures and patches. So talk and say, is he willing to increase Galician public housing park in a significant way, so that it can serve to regulate the market and so that it can serve to solve many people who have precarious jobs and who unfortunately have low wages? Is it willing to support the People's Party in the State to increase the stability of tenants in housing with a reform of the Law on Urban Rentals? Is it willing to support the People's Party that charges are charged to empty dwellings to effectively help with tax policies to mobilize empty housing? Because in this country, Counselor, thanks to the blockade of the People's Party, having an empty housing to speculate is as cheap as having a housing put on rent, and that's one of the keys your program doesn't work, because you don't want it to work either. Because here, who makes housing policies, unfortunately, remains the bank and voitre funds like Cerberus, and not the public institutions, which are the ones that should do them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Sánchez, I thank you for the explanation you gave at the beginning and I have nothing to say. The one who throws shit, if you like, we'll get him out of the act, too. You said he'd come here to shit himself. I think it's an expression that goes on and, if it's okay... you can replace that adjective with another one, I suppose you won't have any problems. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For the decoration of the House. Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mrs. Environment, Territory and Living Councilwoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, if you believe that by shouting or using certain words people will take more account of you or your group... the Greeks and the Greeks are quite smarter! The seriousness of the Galician Union is more than proven, and it shows citizens in every electoral call that exists, so they mostly support the People's Party. Don't use anyone, please. Don't yell at anyone. The Galician Union is about to defend itself, and you -- I'm telling you once again -- have the opportunity to prove that they're for something more than to talk, but it turns out they're not doing it. I give you an example of great interest, which is the case of the Crown. What are you guys doing right now? Why are they paralyzed? Why did the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo have to wait until August to make the relevant adjudications? Why do we take time and time? Because there are administrations that don't fulfill their duties, and that's the Town Hall of the Crown. They start by demonstrating that they are used to make social policies and not just to talk about those social policies. As for honesty, I think there are people who have to be born again to be as honest as others. [[Applause]] Having said this, I'll tell you that in 2019 we're not going to forget our commitment to offer help to all those affected by evictions, whether by means of no rent or mortgage payments. We have twelve measures that we will continue to apply the necessary time and will allocate in 2019 2.6 million euros. On the one hand, there's the Royal Program. I understand they don't want to hear it because they don't want to see it, but that's the reality. It is the Royal Programme for Mortgage Executions, which guarantees housing to 100 percent of applicants who meet the requirements, and which will continue to be done with the same guarantees for the future. In case we don't pay rent we count on the Social Rental Bonus. It consists of an aid of EUR 200 per month for twelve months, which can be extended by another 12 months, and a single aid of EUR 600 to cope with late payments or the costs of formalizing a new contract. I'm glad you know, but I also have to know the rest of society. Especially because you say that there is absolutely nothing and that there is no kind of sensitivity. In 2019 this bonus will have 2.2 million euros, which means twice as much as this program was created in 2015. To further facilitate access to housing, we included a new measure within the tax rebate package included in the 2019 budgets. From 8% to 7% we will lower the tax on heritage transmissions in the acquisition of a dwelling used for habitual use. A decline that will be even stronger, from 4% to 3%, for three specific groups: numerous families, people with disabilities and under 36 years of age. Thanks to them, about 10,000 Welsh people a year will pay less taxes when they buy this kind of house. That's a low income for the twenty-eight million Euros, and that's what we're going to focus on, Mr. Sánchez. Galicia thus becomes one of the least tributary communities in this area. I know we can't match, it's impossible for us to agree, on the one hand, because of how you manage. Because if in the end the result is that in some city we buy apartments for friends and then the courts tell us that we return them, that's why we don't go to Galicia. We're not going on the road to eating three times a day, as some say. We need it to be more like a day. [[Applause]] It's something you don't like to hear, but that's reality. So we don't use the policies that the Tide makes in relation to housing and renting. If it's good for society the policies of the Galician Union, and that makes us put on the table different plans to which we can join, plans that also took on their electoral program and that you weren't able to put in place, but that if you put them on the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u117	So, Mr. Sánchez, we ultimately change policies because we change society and we bet on the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u118	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the early care network
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u119	Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u120	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, today we have asked you for a subject that we are very concerned about the PSdeG: the attention that the Government of Greece has to pay to children with developmental disorders or the risk of ill-being, which is known in the social policy youth as "early attention." For those who have no knowledge this is a very unknown term; only those who devote themselves to this issue know it, and also, unfortunately, those families who are turned around to lay their hands on it. These interventions are carried out in children aged between zero and six years — not only in them and in them, but in their families and around them — aimed at responding to these special needs to improve their personal autonomy and their social inclusion, and also in those more adverse itineraries that have been increased in these years of crisis — severe poverty — of family crisis — in the crisis that there are also childhood styles at present — and in those niches where inequality, emotional imbalance and school, work and personal failure occur, which has a serious impact on the future life of these people. A service that is being rendered in our autonomous community at present and which, due to its current situation — fragmentedness, uncoordinatedness, the lack of territorial equity — and, above all, fundamentally, to this skilful budget that concerns the Government of Greece, places us practically as a red lightbulb in the attention of these children and children throughout Spain. We are not only the second community after Canarias with less investment in all of Spain; we are the worst-investment, the least coverage offers — 18 percent — and the worst-paying job of these professionals, who are highly recognised — said the advisor — less than 20 euros an hour. I recommend to you, Counselor, that you speak to these overworked professionals, as I shall tell you during my intervention. According to this data, to get closer to the state average Galicia would need to invest about six or seven million euros a year. What is reflected in the budgets of the year 2019 is a total of 1.9 million euros; that is, that would be three times more than it will be invested. This gap is increasing between Galicia and the rest of the autonomous communities. There were other autonomys that understood the need to make a strong investment in this area, and I'll give you an example: the Autonomous Community of Aragon, with half the children's population than Galicia, you invest three times more in early attention. Do you think this budget is enough? This is the graph: here we are, and here is the rest of the autonomous communities. [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Do you think this is enough to give quality attention to these children? Furthermore, this network exists only in the role, through that decree of the year 2013, of this coordination protocol. It must be remembered that these equipment are either managed through the municipalities, through their own communities, or by the Galaga Association of Temperá Care. There should be coordination between education, health and social, but the fact is that there is a tremendous discoordination, a lack of complementarity in the actions. There's not a single model of intervention, and this leads to families being lost and families going on pilgrimage because they don't have a reference center. Who manages these services? The last six that started were subsidized for two months, from 1 September to 31 October. The rest, the municipalities and the municipalities with periodic grants, with municipalities making real budgetary balances in order to be able to pay these people, since the help and the money come back from making the contracts, with absurd conditions of justified spending that also lead to excessive bureaucracy of this service, because there is no software that has to be to manage this complex service. What I want to ask you is what you're going to do to solve this excessive bureaucracy and the problems there are. Of the orders that have been published for the municipalities, the first one was unilateral and completely hyperburocracy; besides, there were many municipalities that have already directly removed the towel and did not show up. The second order, that of 2018 -- as we were used to, in pre-election -- in addition to unilateral -- was a true verbena, Counsellor, to make clientelism, creating and generating units where it was not necessary, while others are overloaded with work. And we also said that it can be done through the renewable agreement annually with the Galaga Association of Temperá Care, which manages three other units. There's a lack of territorial balance, there's no planning, and there's the same number of county professionals who have 10,000 inhabitants and those who have 100,000. There are, therefore, some who have no means, others who have too much, and others who have a tremendous workload, which leads to, in some cases, a list above 50 days, when the international standard -- and that's why it's called "time" attention, because it's supposed to be as much as before -- is thirty days at most. I'll give you an example. In the network there are units with three professionals: in the Salnes, to attend two hundred and fifty-seven children, and in Antas de Ulla, to attend four children. Tell me if this seems fair to you, if you think they're rationalizing their own public resources. These budget deficits and regulations, in addition, reflect on this scarce extension of the network. Thirty years after the first -- in 1987 in the poor -- had been created, of three hundred thirteen municipalities there were ninety-two with this service; more than seventy percent had not been covered. And you can see perfectly, Counselor, on this map that also provided us with the Galaga Association of Temperá Care. [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Besides, there is no question about the regulatory development of this network. I don't know you, now that you've just arrived at the council, but your predecessor, of course, has not kept a steady and fluid dialogue to extend it and meet the demands of these professionals. There is no transparency about the cost of each service, the number of professionals and the number of children cared for. There is no continuity in this Early Care Agenda from 2015 to 2017, no training plan from 2015 to 2016 from EGAP itself, no meetings from the Autonomic Council or the Technical Commission. What there is, Counselor, is a real chaos and a genuine desire to care for children with special needs in this autonomous community. Of course, this has consequences; this has serious consequences. The first is that there is tremendous professional instability, and I'm going to give you an example: in Burela Town Hall -- that management in the Navy is shining -- it turns out that there are three professionals to take care of the entire population. There are two professionals who are fixed and there is one who is despondent, who depends on those late aids, with a Town Hall that has to do real juggling games in order to maintain that contract. And of course, the minimum equipment is three people. If you can't hire this speech therapist, there's no equipment; if there's no equipment, there's no subsidy; if there's no grant, there's no attention to these children. What are you planning to do to solve this problem? There are failures in the stability and training of the teams themselves, there are limitations in coordination with pediatricians and educational staff, in the synergies that have to be achieved between the municipalities themselves, and there are many difficulties in caring for and deepening these fundamental processes of linkage and cooperation with children and families, which is what early attention involves. Today, Counsellor, what we ask you to do is, in addition to answering the questions that have been raised on this initiative, that you answer to one more: do you consider that it is sufficient for the budget that the Government of Greece will devote in 2019 for early attention, given that it will continue to place us in Spain's queue to care for children and children with these needs and that it will place us under the average of all autonomous communities? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u122	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members. Mrs. Blanco, looking at the question they asked me in writing and listening to it now to you, the truth is there are some ratings we agree on, but the truth is there are others that I can't give you the reason. Better start with the ones we agree on. It's true that early attention is a service that can substantially benefit from the development of young gals and boys who are identified with some kind of disorder or who are at risk of suffering them. It's true that early attention gives them tools to be more autonomous and to enjoy an increasing quality of life when they get older. It is true that the Galician Union must bet on this model of identifying the early treatment of possible developmental disorders. And it's true — and the advance for you to take it into account in your reply — that we still have a lot of room for improvement. Anyway, Mrs. Blanco, those who are not familiar with the attention to disability and listen to his intervention today may fall into the wrong idea that early attention in Galicia is not living the greatest advance of his story. And it would be really sad if they didn't recognize the important progress we're making in this field today. And when I say "we are" I don't mean unique and exclusively to the Council of Galicia, because in this bet for early attention there are many actors who deserve recognition today. I'm talking about the excellent professionals who work in the early care units throughout Galicia, both those in hospitals and those in the early care network. I speak of the Galaga Association of Temperá Care, whose effort to claim a greater commitment by everyone is worthy of recognition, of mention, and is producing its fruits every day. And I'm also talking, of course, about the Greek municipalities, which are mostly getting involved in improving the attention of children from zero to six years of age with some developmental disorder or who are at risk of suffering them. Thanks to everyone's involvement and work, the situation of early care in Galicia today has little to do with what was in 2009. Because nine years ago—and leaving aside the units that were and are still in the hospitals—this service was only within the reach of the vicinity of fifteen municipalities throughout Galicia, which are those of the districts of Salnes and the Ten. Today the panorama in Galicia has changed greatly and changed to better, as the number of municipalities benefited has multiplied by six, and today there are more than ninety municipalities that have an early attention service. These units have served over the past year more than eight hundred eighty children. So when we talk about early care in Galicia it is also necessary to think about the families of Ribadeo, the families of Vilardevos or the families of Ribeira, who had to travel many miles before to go to the reference unit of their hospital, and who now have a recourse to attention to very few minutes of their own home. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it would be honest to make a diagnosis of the situation without always referring to the point of departure, and in this case we are starting from a situation where the offer of early care in Galicia was clearly improved. In order to remedy this situation, five years ago the Galician Union passed the decree to create the Greek Attention Network, with the aim of providing an interdisciplinary service, a continued service and a flexible service. In order for early care to work optimally, it is necessary to be located as close as possible to its potential users. Therefore, in this decree it is recognized that the area where early attention is most effective is the municipal area, both by its proximity and by the knowledge of the specific situation of the population. This does not mean, of course, that the Galician Union disregards its commitment and its involvement with early attention and with people who may have a developmental disorder, but in 2016 we launched a pioneer order to help the Greek municipalities finance early attention units. This initiative suggested, between 2016 and 2017, more than 1.1 million euros to make the Greek municipalities available six units of early attention. And, in view of the welcome that this order and the commitment that many municipalities have shown, this year the allocation of the aid order increased by 13 percent, with which we managed to finance the operation of six new units and seven other units were launched. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the Galician Union is also funding, through a collaborative agreement, three units that have the Galaga Association of Temperá Care in the 10th, Salnés and Bergantinos districts. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, five years after the establishment of the Early Warning Network there are sixteen units serving ninety-two municipalities throughout Galicia, six times more than in 2009. But does that mean that it's all done and that we have nothing else to do? Well, of course not. So in the Budget Project, which is already at the disposal of this parliament, the Order of Aids to Fund the Early Care Units of the Greek Town Councils is going to increase by more than 17 percent, up to EUR 1.9 million. With this increase, the sixteen units that already exist will be consolidated and five new units will be launched in 2019. So, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia achieves two important objectives: on the one hand, providing security to the existing early care units and, on the other hand, progressively increasing the scope of the early care network. Because we're more committed than ever to families that have a child or a child with developmental disorders or that are at risk of suffering from them, because we're more committed than ever to care for disability. So since 2009 the budget for people with different capacities has increased by 50 and 8 percent. Since 2009 more than a thousand public disability care facilities have been created. And in 2019 we will dedicate to this collective three million euros more, which will serve not only to consolidate existing squares, but to create new public squares, and also to the opening of the Child Elena Occupational Centre, in Monforte de Lemos, which will have thirty occupational squares and ten residential squares. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is today a more welcoming community with people with different abilities, from the early years of her life to the time of getting older. Of course, it must be recognized that there is still work to be done, there are still barriers to overthrow, but with everyone's commitment and the full involvement of the Council of Galicia and of society as a whole, I have no doubt that we will achieve it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u123	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica round, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u124	Thank you very much, President. Well, as it happens, Counselor, with all employees and public servants: very good words and very little budget. For the Galician Association of Temperá attention we have all respect; what we would like is that the German Government had all the available budget for that too. Because, assuming that treatment of more than forty percent of children with special abilities, it turns out that they receive little more than sixteen percent of the budget. [[Applause]] So, the good words, all right, but I'm sure they'd like to have more investment too. Look, you came here as if you'd discovered the gunpowder, let me tell you with all due respect. I've already told you that the first unit has assembled more than thirty years ago. They're talking about a lot being done... well, it turns out that, of the sixteen units there are, eleven have been running since before 2016 -- don't look at me like that -- that of Salnes, that of Bergantinos, that of the Poor, that of the Navy, that of the Lights, that of Orders, that of Octes, that of the Ten, that of Cangas... I don't have time to read eleven, but I'm sure you have the picture too. He didn't say that many others were dismantled, that of the Bridges, that of Santa Comba, that of the Rosal... He didn't find anything. You'll explain to me how you're going to launch five new units with 300 thousand euros more. The average per unit not to be low cost is about one hundred and twenty-five thousand euros, with which, what kind of units are you going to create? Low-cost units and units simply — as I told you in my first intervention — to do electoralism at the gates of the electoral campaign. And you talk -- and I want to make an incision here -- about Infanta Elena and -- I don't know if you mentioned it too -- about Procap de Ourense. You know, Counsellor, it's true that the political resale is not a crime, but it's only a moment when it's tired to listen year after year to the same projects and electoral promises that have been repeated for eight years. So it's good that they do it, that they do it once and for all, but in the case of Procap there's not even one single stone set up until now. Look: yesterday a member of the People's Party said in this House — and I'm going to listen to him today — that there must be a mirror to look at, that you have to set your own examples. And I want to set my own examples. Castile-A Mancha, with a population of children under six years of age very similar to Galician: while the Galician Union invests fourteen euros — fourteen euros, Madam Counsellor! — by child and child, Castile-A Mancha, sixty-eight euros per child and child — almost five times more —. In Castela-La Mancha they have fifty-four centers, we have sixteen. And they're already preparing a law of universalization of early attention that will be Spain's vanguard. In Andalusia... well, in Andalusia it's curious, because it's the one you're looking at most in Spain: 28.8 million euros, compared to the 1.9 million euros you're going to invest. And your People's Party candidate in Andalusia, Mr. Moreno Bonilla, says it's a cold water jug... 28.8 million! Sure, I don't have the number, but I wanted to get in touch and ask you, if that's a cold water jug, an autonomous community that's the fifth in children's childhood population from zero to six years old, but it's the eleventh in number of network centers and the twelfth in investment, so it's? A real frost of public resources! That's what it is, Counselor. Well, there's a lack of dialogue and dialogue to spread that network, I keep repeating it. You also said -- that I've pointed it out here, to see if I find it -- that they're making a huge effort to pay attention early. Look, it's an ideological matter, I understand it, but don't look at it on the social side, look at it on the economic side. He said the Heckman equation — this Nobel Prize — that for each euro of early-care investment would save at least eight in other services. So, I ask you, if at least you don't do it for the children and the children, you do it to save money. Well, and if we take into account these predictable consequences of poverty that caused the crisis — inequalities — we would need between thirty and forty teams, which would allow an accessible, close and free network to exist, which is what the decree says, indeed — which it has repeated — but which does not exist today. A system of support that comes to produce enormously beneficial returns: personal, social and educational returns. It's not a charity benefit, Counselor, it's a smart bet on the future of children and children in this autonomous community that we ask you to put in place, and that, of course, drives in a determined way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Close this interrogation, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Members and Members. Mrs. Blanco, you compare Galicia to other autonomous communities, and I give you the reason that there are autonomous communities that are better than us because they've been working in this direction for many more years. We found ourselves in 2009 a Galicia with zero early care units funded between the Junta and the municipalities, and today there are more than thirteen — plus the three that we have in collaboration with the Galaga Association of Temperá Care. In 2018 and 2019 the investment of Galician Union on the early-warning Greek Network is growing at a rate of two digits: a 13 percent this year and a 17 percent in 2019. And I can assure you, Mrs Blanco, that we will continue to fund new units, but above all we will provide security to existing units. You also talk about the terms of order. Here, in this parliament, you can discuss everything, and we are willing to admit criticism, but also to justify our decisions. But what we really believe is that this Parliament does not deserve to be disturbed by the debate inaccurately. The last order of help to the Greek Town Councils to launch early care units will cover twelve months: from 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2018. The municipalities that launched their unit a year ago received the full grant, and the municipalities that launched the unit of care early later received the proportional part of the grant. I suppose, Mrs. Blanco, that you won't say in this parliament that the Galician Council will finance units of early attention which are not yet open, because that would be misleading all the Greeks and all the Greeks. You also worry about budget stability, and I thank you, because for the Galician Union this anxiety is shared. That is why all the early-warning units that are working today and are presenting themselves to the next year's call — all, absolutely all — will have secured their funding for the Galician Union. If we talk about procedures, I want to tell you that from the German Government we are working so that, in the next call for the council's aid order to create early care units, the procedures will be simplified for the second time and the administrative charges will be reduced. But it should also be recalled here that, of course, all public aid, and especially those with European funding, requires a certain effort to deal with them and, above all, to justify them. But the intention of the Galician Union is for the professionals of the different units to devote as much time as possible to the attention of the girls and boys who so much need it, and to devote as little time as possible to making procedures. Mrs. Blanco, you came here today to say that no early warning units are needed in some municipalities. I really understand that, because when you were ruling there were only fifteen municipalities that were covered by early care units. And you also mentioned the dismantling of the bridge unit. Look: the Town Hall of the Bridges and the city council of the district of Ferrol — i.e., all children from zero to six years of Ares, Cabanas, Cedera, Fene, Ferrol, Mugardos, Narón, Neda and Valdovino — will not have an early unit of attention because the council that led to renounced the grant once it was granted. And that's true, Mrs. Blanco. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] He's also talking about the software. I mean, in this parliament, over the next few weeks, the Early Warning Network will have a powerful computer tool that will reduce the bureaucratic burden. So, in short, Mrs. Blanco, you have my commitment that the Galician Council will continue to improve the scope and resources of the Early Warning Galician Network. And the best evidence that the Government of Greece is going to comply with its word is all it has done in the area of disability over all these years: nine years in which the budget increased by fifty-eight percent, nine years in which more than one hundred new public disability care squares were created and nine years in which the number of municipalities covered by the early care units financed by the Council of Social Policy and the Council of Galicia has multiplied by six years. Look: in 2009 you only covered fifteen municipalities throughout Galicia, in 2018 you are already serving more than ninety municipalities throughout Galicia. Mrs. Blanco, compare: 2009 and 2018. And we will continue to increase resources in 2019 — 17 percent more funds for the Early Warning Network — we will continue to create new units and we expect that there will be five new ones in 2019, and we will continue, Mrs. Blanco, above all, alongside the Greek families to ensure that those who need it have the best services and the best professionals for these boys to gain in autonomy, gain in quality of life and, above all, win in the future. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u127	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to item 6 of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the request of the Attorney General of Ourense for the summons as accused of two charges of the Conseilería de Fatenda for a alleged offence of property harassment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u128	We begin with the question of Mrs Noela Blanco, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u129	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Counsellor, when in 1999, Mr. Fraga decided to put an end to the old chambers of urban property, Lucila, a neighbor of Ourense, had been living in the building where this chamber was based — starting in 1994, through a lease of an old income for a subrogation after the death of her partner. In 2001, a bureaucratic and legal periployment began where the Galician Union tried by all means to throw this person off his floor. The penultimate chapter is that complaint brought by the Attorney General of Ourense against the Government of Greece in the person of two charges: the General Secretariat of the Council, high office since the year 2012, and the Under-Director of Heritage, to whom he asks to charge — and indeed, the judge accepted that charge — for a alleged crime of real estate coercion to a woman who is, Mr. Counsellor, about to comply with ninety-three years. The complaint itself says that the situation has changed since the arrival of this secretary-general in 2012, and that "non-legitimate pressure measures have been breached" — you have quoted the prosecutor's complaint in text, irregularities in which the defendants understood that the Board should regain full possession of the building and do so using any way to do this. After failing the judicial intent by two judgments of the Galician Council followed this alleged harassment. In 2018 — this year, in January — something so spectacular happened, Counsellor, as if, while these people were living on their floors, you drew a contest — which they helped — for the rehabilitation of this chamber for administrative services. In February, they closed the elevator to this building due to serious deficiencies, and Lucila, since then, since she broke the chair, has to be living in a hotel. The worst of all, Mr. Counsellor, is not only the alleged real estate harassment, which is outrageous and shameful; the worst is that you went out immediately, both you and the President of the Galician Council, to defend actions that remember more of a mafia who occupies floors than those of a public administration. Even more serious is this situation if we note that it is about the alleged harassment of an older person who is living alone. I want to ask you today, Counselor, if you're going to follow this path, and we want to ask you from here, from this first intervention, from the PSdEG, to stop at once for all these two high offices, because, of course, who has to be a guarantor of the rights of citizenship can't be right now allegedly harassing a citizen of this country. Nothing else and thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, three questions: The first is that I want to point out that the Board, like any administration, has a series of real estates that make up its heritage, and that we have an obligation to optimize and avoid its loss. For whom? For the set of citizens. In this sense, the aim of the Government is to safeguard the public heritage and put it to the service of all the citizens of Greece. For this reason — as I suppose you will know — we have in all the cities of Galicia a capital plan that has two fundamental objectives: firstly, to recover all the public heritage and put it to the service of the citizens; and secondly, to avoid paying rents, with consequently saving and thus re-investment in those buildings. The second question is to explain the actions we are taking in the city of Ourense. In the line of the above, we have recovered — as I suppose you will also know — a real estate in that city for the Galician Tax Agency. We used to pay a rent — which we stopped paying —; we have our own building, a rehabilitated building and we provide better services. Well, what we want to do with the Arenal Design building is exactly the same. It is a building that has been fully functioning until 2015 with services - you will also know - of a judicial nature that you no longer have, and that at this time we intend to rehabilitate for the entire citizenship of Ourense. So our only goal is to preserve it, to make use of it so that it doesn't deteriorate and not pay for the rent we're paying in other dependencies. And the third question is to clarify that, if it is true that this public building has the singularity of having some tenants who pay low rents, the lodgers, at the moment — according to me — count on all services except one: the elevator, for very special parts that are being manufactured. We're only pending certain licenses to keep you in service. And in order to do the works we offered the tenants that instead of living in that building they could do it elsewhere at the same price or receive equivalent compensation. The goal is nothing other than to reconcile the rights of tenants with the right of all orensans to be able to have a new building. Your Honor, the German Government has acted, acts and will act in defense of the general interest of all the Greeks and all the Greeks; in this case, especially the citizens of Ourense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u132	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u133	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, the general interest is that of the right to citizenship housing, not the real estate interest of Galician Union; that's the first. And then, look, the elevator... is that I have to sue her here. The elevator has been closed since February 2018 — nine months — because a piece is missing. He's missing a piece... what's Swarovski? What is it, Counselor, that, in the 21st century, nine months late, a piece of an elevator? Man, please! [[Applause]] Don't take our hair off and don't take the hair off this old lady, who's having a hard time with these facts. Look, the complaint itself says that the state of the building is "lamentable and unhealthy," as noted before the notary last March. Eight months. The elevator, already as the song says, Counselor: "For how long?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh When's the elevator? Well, this intimidation — I said the complaint itself — was carried out without indicating any consideration, compensation or request in agreement. Also, no agreement, order, provision or administrative action was signed. Nothing, they didn't propose anything at all; the PSdEG doesn't say so, to the prosecutor's office itself. I would like to repeat it and ask you again from the PSdeg to cease at once for all these two offices of the Galician Union, and to do so precisely for the common interest, the general interest, as you say, of citizenship, because they cannot continue to observe the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks and the oressans and the oressas — as you have well said — who are allegedly harassing them. And also take the necessary measures so that these people can enjoy, until an agreement is reached, their housing in conditions of dignity. And, Counselor, they are negotiating; not like David against Goliath, they feel quietly, they feel with respect and do it, above all, because in this case — as long as the German Government claims to protect the older people — we are speaking, and we cannot forget, of a person aged ninety-three.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u135	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u136	Thank you. Close the question, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u137	Allow me to tell you, Your Honor, as I was trying to move forward the first time, that we are the first ones interested in trying to clarify this matter. I'm also deeply sorry about some of the expressions you used today. In this parliament, of course, everyone talks about what he wants, but the good thing is that he's also in the minutes. Don't confuse the temperance and my moderation right now in the formulation of the question you're asking me with any symbol of weakness, please. Because, in essence, we are in the process of defending the general interest of two highly qualified people, two officials who have done the only thing they have done — I repeat again — is trying to manage their own assets and at the same time conjugate the interests of the people living in that building. I repeat: we offer them and we will continue to offer, as it cannot be otherwise, an equivalent rent or compensation, always within the parameters in which the public economy moves. On the other hand, we will always cooperate with justice, but — I repeat — the interest of this government has always been, is and will be the defence of its heritage, combining the private interests competing in this case, to have better public and modern spaces available, in this case, to the citizenship of Ourense. So I'm telling you again: I don't detect or detect any particular interest in the conduct of two officials in the alleged harassment you just said. So we keep quiet, but don't interpret my words any symbol of weakness. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u138	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two more MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the deadline for the completion of the implementation of the Director Plan for the comprehensive sanitation project of the municipality of Lalín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u139	We greet students and sixth primary students from Mestre Martínez Alonso de Mos. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to the teachers who accompany you. Question by Mrs. Patricia Vilán of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u140	Thank you, President. Welcome to these children already pre-ESO of Mos. Counsellor, press headline of September 30, 2017: "Lalín receives four and a half million euros from the Feder Sanitation Plan." It was announced by Alonso, former director of Galician Waters, and Crespo informed that the request had been managed by him. Title of April 22, 2018: "The People's Party calls for a storm tank for EDAR from Lalín with Feder funds". If someone who isn't from Lalín reads these headlines, I'd think that in Lalín there rules the People's Party, clearly. Well, no, no more; it was his feud, he had always ruled, it's true, but he lost the absolute majority in 2015 and stopped ruling Lalin. And Crespo, former mayor of the People's Party, who reported that the petition had been managed by him, is now a conceler, spokesperson of the People's Group in the opposition and senator of the People's Party. But by these press headlines it seems that the institutional relationship or the official relationship between Galician Waters, which is an instrumental entity, and the People's Party is the dominant one. And so that's how about six months ago this spokesperson from the People's Party was received by the former director of the waters of Galicia, who, by the way, never received the Environmental Councilman of the Government of Lalin, even though he asked for it several times. The theme that the spokesperson for the People's Party and the former director of Waters was literally, said Crespo, "my motion on improving sanitation and purification in Lalin." That motion had already gone ahead for most of 2017 in the Town Hall, but they treated "my motion." The curious thing is that this opposition spokesman personally told Galician Waters even before the Council itself issued that motion to Galician Waters. And if it's paradigmatic that the bombo and plate — means of communication ahead — an opposition spokesman when they've been working on this subject since the Government, it's even more paradigmatic than the former director of Galician Waters said the motion will be taken into account because "a master plan never remains and needs future projects like an integral sanitation." And tachan!, sanitation had been the star proposal of the last program for the municipal elections of the Lalin People's Party. The fact is that the environment conceleradora had been working with the water technicians of Galicia for months, the technicians had already done the projects and the nails had been ready for a long time. The fact is, for more than a year, the Town Hall has had no news of the state of execution of these projects or of the execution of these nails or of anything about the work. The performances are four and a half million euros of Feder funds — as I said before — and there is a risk of losing them for passivity from the Autonomic Administration. And the truth is that the sanitation plan is not included in the priority actions of Galician Waters, although there would be the possibility of processing an amendment to the 2019 budgets and thus including it, if possible. The question you have in writing is very clear: when does the Government plan to complete the execution of the Director Plan for the comprehensive sanitation of the municipality of Lalin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u142	Thank you, President. Your Honor, more than anything, a clarification about the meeting you refer to: the meeting of the director of the waters of Galicia and the con celer of Lalin was twenty days after the passage of that motion in the plenary and the truth is, if you were so worried about the Town Hall, it would not take more than forty days to refer that motion. Of course, that's passivity, and not speed and concern, because the Council of Lalín lasted until June 8th, the referral of that plenary agreement. That's passivity, Your Honor. And we tend to meet every request, every request for a meeting. But what surprises me is that the Socialist Party, which is professional with the partisan use of institutions, allows me: the Minister of Development first received the Secretary General of the Socialist Party, Gonzalo Caballero, before the councillor, who asked him to meet him earlier. That seems like the Socialist Party wants to make the Greeks think that the president of the board is Gonzalo Caballero, and that's indeed cheating. We also saw how the Roundup PSOE announces information that will go to the Council of Ministers. (4683) You tell me if that's not partisan use of institutions. And we also saw the government delegate visit the works of AVE to Galicia — unlocked by the previous government — without informing anyone. That is to be professional in the partisan use of administrations. [[Applause]] In any case, a clarification: you know that sanitation, sewerage and supply are municipal competences; in fact, recently it was — and we agreed — the honourable Member who is next to you — Mrs Luis Álvarez — who is a municipal competence. So, according to that: I understand that I am a municipal jurisdiction, sanitation, sewerage and purification. What we've been doing since Galician union is helping with municipal competition, because we can't invade municipal competences. So we're helping to try to effectively and efficiently enable the skills that a council has to perform better, to collaborate and to work. And that's why we agreed. Yes, there were visits by the Galician Water Technicians. And the surprising thing is that the Town Hall had no knowledge of its sewer network; a practically null knowledge of that vast network of 200 kilometers that practically has the Town Hall, and which is unitary network. The unitary network is not separative and, as a unitary one, it has important -- reliefs when it rains a lot, for example -- a set of evases and deficiencies that had neither detected nor analyzed. They had no knowledge of their network. Of course, our technical support is tender, drawing up this Master Plan of the Sanitation of the city centre of Lalín. But what surprises me is that in municipal competition the Town Hall has no knowledge of its network and has not detected its problems. It's your competence, Your Honor, I think at that basic point you must agree. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u143	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u144	Thank you, President. Of course, Counsellor, it is when you say that the motions of the Lalín Council are not communicated... in this Parliament, in the Environment Committee, but that it has to do with Infrastructures, the speed down of the N-550 has been agreed by all parliamentary groups. It was a non-unanimous proposal in the Commission, which was referred, supposedly — from the presidency of Parliament — to the Government of Galicia. Besides, it was the Government that had to inform the State Government, who was the one who was instigated. Since May, in the Directorate-General for Traffic and in the Government of Spain they have no -- none! -- kind of notification by the Government of Galician Union, which means that, at least, it sometimes takes more than twenty, forty and sixty days to make such communications between administrations. You should bear in mind that your own parliamentary group voted in favour of this non-law proposal. Maybe it's okay if you pick up a phone and send it to Madrid, because it's not stupid. People's lives are at stake at N-550. [[Applause]] The curious one, Counselor, is that you seem to only remember Lalin -- they remembered before, when the People's Party was ruling; they remember Crespo to receive it -- to get on Galician TV lies about the mayor; that seems to be the only interest you have. Now you remember that Lalin hadn't done his homework on his day. By the way, you have always ruled, since democracy — except since 2015, always — and you have never cared about sanitation or how sanitation networks were in Lalin; they matter now. Counselor, the nails are finished, the project was done and there is a need for this in Lalin. Is it a priority for counseling and for the Galician board to clean up and also for debugging — whether it is the responsibility of your counseling — or not? Has he stopped being a priority? Why is it taking so long right now if it's all done?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u146	There's a risk that those four...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u147	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u148	Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u149	Thank you, President. As I said, it's municipal competences and, therefore, we're helping with municipal competences. The current governor is the representatives of the current Government of the Lalín Town Hall and therefore the current Town Hall is what needs to be known. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] We have absolute willingness to advise, to work and to support in a competition — to insist again — municipal. Of course, since the problems are unknown and they have not been detected or identified, we will draft this master plan to see the set of needs, since the current government group lacks that necessary information, which is the responsibility of the current government group. I think you're obvious some performance. There are spills of municipal competence which has submerged the waters of Galicia — six points of dumping —. Forget that, of course, there are many improved aspects and there are breaches of the purification systems, and from the waters of Galicia there has been a control and help to the sewage stations of more than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants -- as you know. And within that control and help, in the inspection we've carried out, we've detected a lot of breaches of the debuggers that currently manage the Lalín Town Hall, and — I insist — is of their competence both to the network of collectors and to the debugging systems. So what does the Lalín Town Hall do when it collects annually by sewerage rate and by supply rate 8,000 thousand euros a year?, where did you invest the EUR 800,000 a year that the Lalín Town Hall collects each year in terms of these sanitation and supply services?, I wonder. Where are they? Are they finalists? I would expect it to be at least to exploit the debuggers well, to have the collectors well, but the fact is that we see that the debuggers are not well exploited, that the municipal competition collectors are not well... eight hundred thousand euros every year collected for this type of performance, because it's municipal responsibility. In any case, from the Galician Union, support and commitment to sanitation and purification. We are finalizing the technical requirements of this local sanitation plan in Lalín to define that network, define the deficiencies, detect them and, of course, define the actions needed to have a better sanitation system and execute them. But starting from the fundamental premise, it's municipal competence; therefore, collaboration is also municipal. And what we've been working on is what has not been done so far in recent years, where the current government has responsibilities: to know the network and to identify the problems that you haven't detected, despite collecting annually EUR 8,200,000 a year. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u150	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the opinion of the Galician Union regarding the sale of Itinere
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u151	Question by Mr. Xosé Luis Bará, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u152	Good morning, Counselor. [[Laughter]] No, if they want, we'll give it up. I don't know, I suppose you'll have something to say about this, Counselor. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u153	A little spook. No problem, we're starting again. Start counting time now. [[Laughter]] Whenever you want, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u154	Good morning, Counselor. For the past two years, we have seen — it seems that the Galician Union as a guest of stone — a battle fuelled by the control of the Itinerus Group, which owns Audasa, and, above all, by the control of the jewel of the crown, which is AP-9, which accounts for more than half of the group's income and last year had a profit of forty-five million euros, nothing more and nothing less. A large deal authorized by the People's Party up to 2048 with substantial incomes for absolutely abusive peas, which rose by forty-two percent in the last eight years and which have fresh rises already announced for the next few years. In addition, we are convinced that this speculative process of sale is also behind the veto of the People's Party to the transfer of AP-9, because nothing can be moved until this question is resolved. We are faced with the struggle for an appetite spoil, involving large international groups and speculative funds, Voitre funds such as Globalvia or the Dutch group APG in partnership with the Corsario fund. Last October it was confirmed the sale of the little remaining in English in AP-9 — part of the bank — for nearly 300 million euros. Three months have passed since Globalvia's offer announcement and Junta hasn't moved a finger; Junta looked to the other side, put herself on the profile and allowed the Voitre funds to take advantage of what was left of the AP-9. Of course, you will say that they have done what they've been doing in the last 20 years, that is to protect the interests of the dealership; that they defend private property; that they defend and are respectful of free market laws, the laws of supply and demand, and that they are not in favour of public intervention in these matters. Public intervention is only worth paying EUR 50 billion to the bank, only goes to dismantle the Greek financial system — for that it is worth public intervention — or to pronounce judgments favouring the interest of the bank in the case of ground clauses or — as we saw yesterday — in the case of mortgage taxes. [[Applause]] With you, Counsellor, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the bank and the powerful always win and the voyeurs who rob the Greek wealth — as you can see in this case — always win.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u155	Thank you, Mr Bará. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u156	Thank you, President. The truth is that you bring again a matter that is state competence: AP-9. And therefore, since you have no representation in Congress, they use this parliament to talk about state issues. In any case, glad to answer it. The truth is that it is one way — again — of saying that we manage the autonomous roads very well, to their liking, and that, therefore, we are doing well, because again they bring you a question of state issues. In any case, what I have to tell you about this particular matter: you know perfectly well that the Board has been consistent and has, of course, been active on everything that is happening on AP-9. The truth is, you don't have the exclusive power to defend the interests of the Greeks in relation to AP-9, and you should know for all we've done in relation to AP-9. We have defended since the Galician Union the true general interest -- this Galician Union and not the Bipartite Galician Union -- in relation to AP-9, as I have often said here and I have reported here. So we look for the general interest because, in addition to that, it's the vertebrate axis where we live in the 60th century of the population of Galicia. Of course, we'd like to meet first-hand, at the mouth of the ministry, those capital movements in relation to AP-9, not through the media. And that is why, at the next meeting that we will have in the AP-9 Committee — which we have achieved from this government so that we can first-hand talk about AP-9 and have a voice in AP-9 — we have on the agenda of the specific agenda and talk about this matter and know the details of that operation. In any case, they are private capital operations that do not authorize the administration — in this case, the administration that governs the Socialist Party — operations that we understand should not and should not be given. And so, we will see to influence the quality of AP-9 management — which are the requirements, regulations and contracts that must be met — and we will ensure the quality of the service, mainly, because it would not be admissible anything else. The wager and the work of the Galician Union will not change, Mr Bará. We're clearly following up on AP-9 to have a quality service. We will continue to demand ownership, because we are convinced that direct management, of course, will ensure better service, better management and better functioning. And so we will continue to fight for the transfer of AP-9, not voting against, as others you know, because you are not the only defenders of this highway. So work and drive to defend the interests of the Greeks on this issue. And I insist that private capital operations, going from private hands to private hands, should not affect the quality of the service, should not affect. We will ensure that this is the case, hoping that the next AP-9 Follow-up Commission will be able to inform us first-hand at the Ministry of Development on this matter. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u157	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u158	Counsellor, you have just confirmed that they haven't done anything since July the sale of that part of Galician, owned by the bank, of AP-9 was announced. They say now that they're going to ask the central government, you don't know when, but it's already implemented and they haven't done anything. Of course, you're perfectly consistent. He said it clearly here. They are consistent advocates of private property —of some property, above all — protectors of the interests of the owners of Audasa. It shows it first with privatization and also with extension of concession. As Mr. Feijóo Vice President of the Board and Public Works Adviser, he was blessed with this operation, from which he also benefited a friend company of the People's Party involved in the Gürtel plot. And the People's Party is also protecting the interests of the bank, from selling at a balance price, for a billion euros, after receiving nine billion euros of public funds. A business for the state and a profit feast for the bank, which also gave us a profit feast of over six hundred million stakes in key sectors of the Greek economy, such as energy, mining, naval and technology, which also sold and of those that entered all these amounts. And now the AP-9, with silence, with complicity and passivity of the Galician Union. They have to tell us which side they're on. We know that, but tell them clearly: they're on the bank's side. Stop looking elsewhere, stand in front of the defense of the country's interests, exercise as a government and not as agents of the speculators, predators and the corsaries that plunder us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u159	Thank you, Mr Bará. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u160	On the side of the Greeks, Your Honor, on the side of the Greeks and of the general interest. And I'll explain it with facts. [[Applause]] The story is there, Your Honor. In any case, as I said, it is one of the agenda items of the AP-9 Commission. You say you don't know when: November 13th. Next November 13th, we'll be able to talk, on the agenda, this is the subject so that we can talk to the Ministry of Development. But beyond who the shareholders are, we are concerned about the service, which provides a quality service; we are concerned about this unacceptable escalation of prices of the AP-9 fees, because something that we really care about is that one percent cumulative climb for 20 years that left Minister José Blanco signed in 2011. I don't think they're legitimized to teach about AP-9. They were the main opponents of AP-9, voted against the transfer. There's no memory... that being in the Bipartite they'd be fine, they'd give the concessionaire money for a state fee, they'd give him money from the Greeks for a state fee -- that's what you did. [[Murmurs.]] And now they're also talking about rescue, paying thousands and billions to touch the dealership. That's a basic principle of economics: money is better today than tomorrow. [[Murmurs.]] You're doing a favor to the dealership by asking those billions to pay them the tap. I already tell you that we will see for the general interest and for the Greeks. There are two ways to work, you shut up and pay the dealership a lot of money annually. And what did you get this government? He achieved more in one year than in forty years: the AP-9 Commission — yes, Your Honor — to have voice and vote, to be able to opinion and defend the Greeks and also to break up that ruinous agreement for Galicia that you signed in the Bipartite: four hundred million euros to the concessionaire directly through that peax of the Morration to Round it, four hundred million euros that broke this government. A round operation for Audasa and ruinous to Galicia; you have signed this government, yes, yes! [[Murmurs.]] And the Council of State recognized in writing — in writing, I'm going to have to send it — the unfair enrichment of Audasa with that agreement signed by the Bipartite for you. So, as far as the beaches are concerned, they know that this escalated rise was a Royal Decree of Minister Pepe Blanco of 2011, that cumulative rise. And the Socialist Party recently said that it could be reversed and paid with funds from state budgets so that it wouldn't do so, and what they do is to culminate in that escalation of the payoff, therefore, against their own initiatives and decisions of a very short time ago. In any case, we will request flexibility from the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u161	Thank you, Counselor. We are now debating two questions in an accumulating manner, one from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the other from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia referring to the adjudication of a teaching square at the School for the Restoration of Cultural Goods, of Pontevedra, in the 2016 transfer contest Question of Da María Luisa Pierres López and six other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures provided for by the Government of Greece in relation to the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia concerning the adjudication of a teaching square at the School for the Restoration of Cultural Goods, of Pontevedra, in the 2016 transfer contest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u162	We started with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and for that we have the floor for Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u163	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. We asked him about the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which annulled the adjudication of a square in the general transfer contest of 2016, a place that was adjudicated to the brother-in-law of the secretary-general of Equality, Mrs. Susana López Abella. And to put it on, what did you do to Galician Union? Well, to create a square according to that person, an ad hoc square, a square that wasn't even claimed by Pontevedra's own High School of Restoration. Because the goal of the Greek Government, the goal of the Galician Union was not to meet the demands of the centre, but to guarantee a job in the public service of this country to the sister-in-law of the Secretary-General for Equality. To understand us: a caicada. Nepotism, that is to say, I treat family or friends in favor of those who are given public office or jobs by mere being made of seal, without taking into account other merits. He said the sentence — and I read it textually —: "The square was offered ad hoc so that it was given to the said person, when there was no such specialty in Galicia. It is not necessary, it has never been taught in the corresponding school and its incorporation causes serious problems to the quality of teaching and the distribution of materials in departments." But the sentence goes further and points out that the sister-in-law of the Secretary-General of Equality has been anonymously integrated into the Greek civil service and that previously it has been irregularly included in the temporary staff list of the Education Council, from which it has been excluded by complaint of the injured persons. They were pillaged, and, far from rectification, they were the worst. Not only did they create an ad hoc square for her in 2016, but they tried to place it in 2014. A scandal, a scandal! An absolutely unacceptable seizure! [[Applause]] But besides, he had already warned the People's Valley in 2014 about what they were doing in front of the IGC complaints, but nothing, you're wrong that you're wrong. It's wrong that it goes wrong because the goal of the Board was not to comply with the law, but to place this person, even if for that it was necessary to incur an illegality, a flagrant deviation of power, as the sentence says. An illegal act, an example — I insist — blatantly of nepotism and caciquism, so since the BNG we have demanded that they cease or resign responsible persons. That's why we asked him what they were planning to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. You now have the floor for Mrs Pierres' Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u165	Good morning, Mrs. Pomar. First of all, allow me to subscribe to a large part of the exhibition and the statements made by the BNG spokesman. And immediately, you receive my most sincere apologies. And yes, I apologize in my name and in the rest of my parliamentary group, because we're really rude. Because it is precisely our bad education to the great guilt that today we cannot see things with the same perspective as this government. That bad education that leads us to believe that competitive processes must be clean and transparent, also that it commits us to equal opportunities for all and for all and that it leads us to defend that public service squares must be created and offered in order to meet social needs and not to meet the interests of friends or relatives interested in or interested in them, as happened in this clear case of nepotism with a family member of the General Secretariat of Equality. [[Applause]] A bad education, ultimately, Counsellor, which is the reaction to that other education that you confuse with good government and which has naturalized the use of favourable treatment in grant granting and the lack of transparency in the adjudication of jobs, works and contracts, skipping, on the one hand, all kinds of ethical behaviour and, on the other hand, committing illegalities, as has been demonstrated in this case. I hope — and I tell you with total frankness — that you, as a new incorporation of this government, share with this Socialist Group at least an apex of our bad education, which enables you to promote a new way of doing things — with greater transparency and equity — and that you would withdraw from your advice those "twisted actions", an expression that reflects in this judgment which condemns the German Government, in this case, embroiled by the tack of friendship and entuffism. Be aware that you are part of a Government with a council, as vice-presidentship, on which the General Secretariat of Equality is dependent, and that you are, in this very matter, not empanied, but added political responsibilities. I understand that today's is a shock therapy for you to learn how to lift this kind of yawn, especially when, in this case, our question would be addressed to the Vice President's Council, but Mr. Rueda once again declines his responsibility and literally passes the brown one. [[Applause]] In any case, we hope that you will be able to move what kind of political responsibilities you will assume the Vice-Presidentship Council and the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice Council following the conviction of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in which the teaching square awarded to a relative of the Secretary-General of Equality is annulled. Nothing else for the moment and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u167	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, today we see a clear example of how a single court ruling can give rise to different interpretations about it, but also how, nevertheless, there is a coincidence in making use of criticism of the German Government without taking into account all the facts or the failure is not firm, since against it there is a remedy. The BNG sees the sentence as an endorsement of proven facts that are extremely serious because, in its view, it gives the reason to the nationalist union CIG-Ensino in all the steps taken several years ago to denounce a case of nepotism and plugging. On the other hand, the interpretation of the PSdEG is centered on talking about a conviction that caused great social alarm and which shows a totally irregular procedure carried out by the Education Council to encourage the incorporation of a teacher who is related to a high office of the Galician Council. But one might ask: What are we really talking about today? The recent judgment of October 2018, of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, corresponds to the decision of an appeal against an earlier judgment of March 2018 of the Court of Justice of the Contentious No. 1 of Santiago de Compostela. The syndicate's claim was based on the challenge of the assigned destination in the general competition for transfers to an official of Plastic Arts, speciality in the Conservation and Restoration of Graphic Documentation, at the Pontevedra Restoration School. For the union organization, the so-called adjudication in the transfer contest was carried out with power deviation, and it justifies this accusation in which the adjudicator has relation with a high office of the Galician Union, is director of the Mupega and had its final destination in Asturias. With regard to this case, the previous judgment of the Santiago Court denied the IGC's claim against the rejection of an appeal against a decision of the Education Council, so that the final award of the travel of teaching staff was published. The judgment of the judge based the non-admission of the appeal on the lack of active legitimation of the union to challenge the administrative decision. The union then decided to appeal, and now the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia ruled in favour of it. The current judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia therefore fails, precisely, on the legitimation of the union to challenge the administrative resolution of the Education Council, not so much on the concrete outcome of it. And, contrary to what the Dispute Tribunal had held, the High Court now understands that the union itself bears active legitimacy, although it also admits that the applicant was unable to believe a special and concrete link between the general defence of the interests of the teaching staff and the object of the price. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Although he does not feel doctrine, a previous judgment in October 2016 serves the courtroom of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to determine that the union obtains a tangible benefit upon his journey, as it depends on his postures and on the combativity that shows the possibility of increasing his affiliates, which, in part, may be conditional on the outcome of the contests he promotes. The room therefore bases, in this argument, on the existence of the active legitimation of the union and, in addition, believes that, if there is no more affected than the only applicant, legitimacy should be recognised to that organization. On this concept of legitimacy, the judgment is based on the new decision of estimating the IGC's appeal and annulling the contested administrative acts of the court. Thus, it gives valid all arguments and ratings collected in the union resource. Well, the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training respects the judgement — I insist, it respects the ruling — but it maintains that it has not acted with power deviation and that the measures taken, in addition to adapting to the law, were solely for the purpose of expanding the supply of knowledge that are provided by specialists in this centre. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For these reasons, we have decided to appeal this judgment before the Supreme Court. The decision to appeal is also based on the fact that the judgment is not based on the failure or violation of any legal precept. In view of the fact that the offer of the square was not supported by pedagogical criteria, since the Educational Administration we have maintained that it was justified, as the report of the General Sub-Direction for Special Education, which expressly points out that the provision of teachers from different specialities would result in better training of students in all specialities. For the Council, the statement by the headmistress of the centre that the incorporation of teachers outside the specialties that are provided produces disorders in the distribution of conservation and restoration materials is contradictory to reality, since in the current framework of teaching staff there is a secondary teacher in the commission of services, therefore, in addition to those specialties. We must point out that any professor of the body of Plastic Arts and Design can impart, whatever their specialty, first and second course subjects. Therefore, since the Council, the CIG union has been challenged, which seems to seek only the preservation of places occupied by interim or non-specialist personnel in the face of a career teacher. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the relationship of kinship with a high office cannot be a reason for exclusion in a selective process to a public square. No, ladies, it can't be. [[Murmurs.]] [[Balbordo.]] Finally, we denied the existence of data concealment, since the same recurrent union declared...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u168	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] Thank you. Your time is up. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u169	Thank you, President. I don't believe it, I honestly say it. Counsellor, I'm going to read to you directly what the sentence says because there's not much interpretation possible: "We are facing a clear case of power deviation, a twisted action by the Administration to achieve a purpose contrary to the legal order. Not only did it act with a lack of transparency, but it did so with manifest occultism, preventing access by the actor to information that should exist throughout the selection procedure. Not even the people'svadora requirements allowed access to that information." In fact, there is no possible interpretation to make that twisted act, to go against the law, to act in an absolutely illegal way. The only goal that the Galician Union had — the only goal, and that's why there's only one person trying to access that place — was to place this person and, for that, an ad hoc square that didn't even ask for the direction of the High School of Restoration. But do you know what's more serious? It's not just happening there. We know -- and you also know, because there is a formal communication from the Directorate of the Dramatic Art School -- that they denounced before your council that the Educational Inspection amended the request that the ESAD Directorate itself had made of two vacant squares in July of this year. They even telephoned the school to threaten and demand compliance with its orders, although — as was the case at Pontevedra Restoration School — they did not request these vacant squares. A course — I insist — that reminds a lot of what happened at the School of Restoration. We are very clear: it is absolutely unacceptable, it is a clear example of nepotism and caciquism. We demand resignation from the General Secretariat of Education and also from the General Secretary of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Replica, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u171	Mrs. Pomar, the bad thing about turning the tortilla is that sometimes you can burn. I understand the bad time that you must be going through, and that your answer is more inclined to trust in the good course and will of this government and the recourse to the judgment that in acknowledging that things have not been done well. [[Applause]] I sense that maybe in that germination of bad education that I used to talk to you about -- and that I hope you share with us -- you do believe that things can be done differently, not how this government brought us up. And judgments such as this can and must be avoided by the Council which now directs, which is not re-accused or condemned for twisted acts. That's why I can't help but ask you about the state of your back. Because I suppose in that accelerated course you'd receive from Mr. Rueda to lift up the buds that you inherited from the actions of others and others would also tell you about the backpack you're carrying. And you'd realize that that backpack is well loaded and therefore your back will suffer, and much. Because we understand ourselves well: we know how to differentiate between what is legal and what is ethical, and this government lacks much of both. Favoring children or daughters with grants, awarding contracts to direct relatives, design jobs with names and surnames, or awarding awards to municipalities of the same political colour are illegal practices. And even those who can be and follow legal channels, no doubt far — and you know — of being ethical. So I ask you today, Counsellor, firstly, if you feel comfortable with the weight of the backpack you inherited, and secondly, if you do not believe that with this proven case of nepotism on the part of the Greek Government you are opening up the opportunity to release that backpack by weight, depurating the political responsibilities that fill this case, even with the resignations of the political leaders involved who have covered the various complaints and even the recommendations themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u173	...from People's Valley in 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u174	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u176	Thank you. Close these questions, advisor of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u177	Thank you, President. Well, I appreciate your compassion. In any case, I'll have to do muscle classes if I have so much weight to carry. What I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that since the Council we have denied the existence of data concealment, since the same recurring union has declared the existence of the square in the sectoral table that meets before any call for tender. This was published in the DOG of 19 January 2016. And he was also given an answer to the information requirement of the People's Valedor, although the Administration recognizes the delay in the response. From the interventions we have just heard, we see that their focus is in a circumstance other than the educational system, such as the relationship of kinship of a function with a high office of the Union. To focus here requires a joint reflection: can the family members of the people who work in the Union, or in the municipalities, or in the deputies or in this chamber not opt for a job or a public square? Isn't it true that there must be equal treatment for all aspirants? [[Murmurs.]] Shouldn't we take into account the worth and merits when we occupy a square? Shouldn't the squares be offered for the benefit of the whole citizenship? It is true that there is a judgment which is not in favour of the Union, as it was previously not in favour of the Union, which is why it has resorted. At this point, we insist that the decision of the High Court of Justice of Galicia should be taken, despite the limited motivation it appears to have, the Education Administration maintains that it has not acted with power deviation and that the measures taken have, have and will have for the purpose the educational service. The measures adopted in this call for transfers are based on criteria for the education system. We return to the usual: a timely and unsigned case cannot be used to question the legitimacy and validity of the administrative actions of the Education Council. From the point of view of justice — I insist: from the point of view of justice — the Educational Administration cannot avoid expressing its surprise that a judgment with such serious pronouncements as the imputation of power deviation or nepotism is not grounded in the failure to comply with any violated legal precept. There is no single quote throughout the judgment of the failure to comply with a rule of law, nor of the procedure for processing the invitation to tender, nor of the impossibility of adjudicating the place by a career worker. Isn't this funny? In the face of all the argument of the judgment, the Administration, respecting the judgement — and I repeat again: respecting the judgment— must state that the official was not in excess and could therefore compete with the square; that the administration understood that the offer of this square was more than justifiable, as it was collected in the report of the Assistant General Directorate for Special Plan Teachings, which expressly points out that the provision by teachers of different specialities could report better training of the student in all of them; that the judgment does not take into account that any teacher of the body of Plastic Arts and Design can provide, whatever his specialty, subjects of first and second course, as it collects the rules in force; that it does not take into account that the challenge is based on the interest in preserving places occupied by the staff or that does not belong to the speciality he is providing common subjects; that the statement believes that there has been a concealment of data in the recurring union, but that the existence of the CIG itself has been carried out correctly. Furthermore, the Educational Administration, in its defense of the professionals who have overcome an opposition, believes that a professor of a particular specialty obtained by opposition -- whatever the body in which he acquired his official status -- can impart his knowledge with greater quality than a teacher who is neither of the body nor of the specialty. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case we should not be confused with the specialties given at the Pontevedra Restoration School with the ability of the different teachers to impart the different subjects offered. Thus, as a criterion in the system of provision of squares to ensure better education for students and students, the Council's resolution was based on the premise that an aspirant with a category of official and specific speciality and qualified to impart a subject on the status of interim teachers or high school teachers without any speciality in Arts and Design. So, I raise the following question or question: does it result in a deviation from the idea that an expert teacher accredited by opposition can impart in better conditions a subject than other interim teachers or members of a body without specialization of Arts and Design? From the Council we understand that the answer should be easy. That is why, and also because the judgment itself — which we respect — mentions that the applicant was unable to believe a special and concrete link between defending the interests of the teaching staff and the object of the price, we believe it is appropriate to appeal to the Supreme. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u178	Thank you, Counselor. Da Luca Chao Pérez's question from G.P. de In Marea, about the realization by the Junta of Galicia of some meeting with the main web platforms of reservations of tourist apartments, tourist dwellings and tourist dwellings
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u179	Question by Mrs Luca Chao, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u180	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you know that, according to the German Statute for Self-Government, the Government of the Union has exclusive competence in the promotion and management of tourism. In that sense, one can understand the need for decisive action by the Government of Greece in order to order and ensure the viability of this key sector of the Greek economy; viability, not for today and hunger for tomorrow; viability, not only Xacobeo; as well as the need to ensure the proper coexistence of our peoples and cities; coexistence and not exclusion of the indigenous population. And, in this sense, one of the problems associated with tourism that has the greatest concern for citizenship in recent times is the proliferation of tourist dwellings in the streets where they live, many of them illegal. Just go around the main streets of our cities to check out how Airbnb, Homeaway or Wimdu, among many others, are transforming the way of doing tourism and also transforming people's way of life. The problem associated with this transformation is quite relevant. On the one hand, it is necessary to talk about money stolen from public buildings, whenever in many cases — as you know — we speak of invisible businesses; of course, of unfair competition against the regulated tourist sector, which follows and respects — as it could not be otherwise — the law and tourist regulations, pays their taxes and, above all, generates jobs. And, of course, it also relates to the expulsion of the indigenous population, unable to assume the charities of rent prices and services; ultimately, the substitution of the residential use of many places in our cities for unsustainable tourist use. This effect of expulsion implies a loss of the economic and social fabric of our cities, which ends up transmuting into business oriented to seasonal tourists and excludes those dedicated to the resident population throughout the year. And what does the Government say about this situation? So let me quote the words of Mrs Nava Castro, who are clear: "I think it's a good symptom that rental is understood as a residence for tourist use and not just for students." Does the Director of Tourism of Galicia ignore the importance of renting for university students in cities like Compostela? Do you ignore the enormous effort it entails for the Greek families, who have to strive every month to pay for the apartments? Do you consider it appropriate for prices to rise and rise and become more and more difficult to find this type of housing? Do you intend to replace the people who come to study university by tourists? It's a joke, a disrespect for all families in this country who take on the costs and a lack of absolute seriousness to attempt to address the issue by trampling on the right of all citizens to a decent housing. From En Marea we consider it urgent to modify the decree governing this type of business, to increase inspections and to force web platforms to offer only regularised tourist dwellings, as it was forced, for example, in the city of Barcelona, thanks to the work of its government. From there our question: has the Government of the Union had any meetings with the main web platforms reserve operators to address this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Chao, you know that Galicia was the first autonomous community to regulate — through a decree of 2017 — everything that has to do with renting homes in the tourist world. In this decree, both to protect the user — the people who want to use this service — and to protect the owners, made a distinction very clear. On the one hand, there are tourist apartments, which is an economic activity. On the other hand, there are tourist dwellings. And, on the other hand, there are tourist-use dwellings that are, as you mean, the normal, ordinary rentals that have been constantly made and that are somehow not largely linked to companies or to any kind of multinational, or much less, but that are, in their vast majority, complementary economic activities for families who have a flat as a saving strategy or who have a housing that decides to rent. Once again — we've seen it yesterday — by En Marea there is a vision, if you want, quite negative, quite pejorative, of everything that has to do with tourism, and I think you're doing it as a sort of follow-up of media headlines that flourish in other autonomous communities or other cities, but that, frankly, it's very difficult to extrapolate them to Galicia. In addition, he uses a number of statements that, if allowed, are absolutely false, they have no support for truth or statistics. You say -- so you put it -- that they "proliferate illegal tourist use dwellings." I think that's fake, and if you don't, if you know him, what you have to do is denounce them, obviously, like any citizen. But it's false what you're saying. We also understand that it's false what you say that "illegal activity is huge in our community." As it is also false that you say that "here you are expelling the indigenous population—according to its terminology—from its neighborhoods of origin." And I think it's also false what you're suggesting that this decree is incapable of ordering and regulating a situation in this case linked to the rental activity of tourist dwellings. We have a decree, we have an order, which actually works well; that classifys the different rental modalities; that does not come into what are classic rentals, to understand us, but what it does is to protect both possible users, with concrete determinations, as well as possible owners of housing, with other specific determinations; and what a difference between a tourist dwelling and a tourist housing. What you're asking here is if there were meetings with the platforms that sell this product. Obviously, Your Honor, but how could you not speak? How weren't you gonna talk? It's more, we understand it's positive, and we're sure that if we didn't, you'd be accusing us of not doing it. Of course there were meetings to explain an absolutely legal regulatory framework...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u183	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u184	...a regulatory framework that protects users, a pioneer policy framework in Spain that, in this case, also protects housing owners! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. You have the floor, for the replica shift, Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u186	We hope denial is the first step towards acceptance. Who knows, even if it's the first step to do something! Look, you can come here and try to deny the biggest, but the data are the ones that are, not headlines, not the followers of other cities, but data. We can cite the case of Compostela, which you obviously don't know but is part of the top 100 of the most tourist cities in the world. The top 100, not an isolated place. In this city there are more than 3,000 irregular tourist squares offered daily. And I insist on the square, because in the document we check an error when we talk about housing; we mean squares. It is clear that the increase in tourist floors is having a very significant effect on the reduction of ordinary rentals. We don't say that, say the Galaga Federation of Real Estate Companies, that something of this must know. They say in 2017 there were seven thousand homes to rent in the community market. Well, after closing the third quarter of this year, the figure dropped to 4,300, almost 40% less. For us to get an idea of what this means, it is enough to say that, for example, in this city today there are more tourist apartments than apartments available for traditional rental, and Mrs Nava Castro saying that fantastic!, only he lived wine! But there's more. In Galicia, private homes that are used as tourist apartments are about six thousand five hundred, offering a total of almost thirty-four thousand beds. Do you know what this is? 60% of all the squares offer hotels between one and five stars in our country. All the hotels together don't add more than fifty-seven thousand beds: less resources, less quality and less employment, which we should worry about. And we must also insist on the money stolen from the public archives, of which you didn't say anything. Well, do we talk about illegal activity? Yeah, we're talking about invisible activity for the public archives. According to the latest data, last year in this city there were more than half a million overnight stays of this kind, with a direct impact of about 9 million euros invisible to public objects that do not matter to you, in addition to unfair competition for the hotel sector and its cost of opportunity. This one pays his taxes. Do you want to tell us that the Galician Union has nothing to do? Can you tell us what agreements have been reached, if these meetings have really been held?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u188	How many dwellings have been regularized in Galicia since the entry of the previous decree? What data does the Government have on illegal tourist dwellings? How many inspections have been conducted since...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u190	...has the decree entered into force? How many sanctioning files?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u192	Are you going to do something to force web platforms to remove illegal ads?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u193	Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] You have the floor for the reply by the Government, the Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u194	Mrs. Chao, you base all your argument and all your speech on an absolutely free statement. You say that tourist dwellings are illegal. From there on, everything you say isn't worth anything, absolutely nothing, because they're regularized and absolutely legal. You can say here that you don't like them. He's on his political right to do so. Now, to say that they're illegal is a genuine falsehood, and you're calling them illegal to many people, families, retirees, housewives, who have rental floors and who, fortunately, thanks to the fact that there is now a decree by the Galician Council of 2017 that regulates this situation, can develop their activity in an absolutely legal way, with certainty for the user and with safety also for the family itself. He can't say they're illegal. And of course, from there, everything he says... I could shut up right now and stay so wide, for saying it quickly; but I'm going to give you some data because I think it's good that you know each other. You speak of Santiago de Compostela and speak of Galicia. Look, Galicia was wrong. There are more tourist-use dwellings than you say. You say there are six thousand but there are more. There are seven thousand two hundred forty-eight. I don't know why you're opposed. All the tourist spaces in Galicia and Spain have rental houses, because perhaps there are families that have no economic resources to go to hotel, or they have no second residence next to the beach or the mountain, and they use rental houses in Sanxexo, in Baiona, in thousands and thousands of places, and I think that's not bad, Your Honor, it's not bad. In Santiago backwards, you put too much. In Santiago there are forty-four tourist dwellings, and there are two thousand squares, not three thousand, as you say. Now, I would also ask you if you know, if you know there's anything illegal, please let the inspectors know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, inspectors who in this accompanying law have greater legal capacity to intervene and inspect so that there is good control, good management and a defence of the interests and rights of citizens to use this tourism alternative. You'll see, as I just said, that perhaps many families don't have enough money to go to a hotel and they can opt for a tourist house. Your Honor, I believe that here, as in all things, the important thing is always the sentinel and being in the middle term, being in the center, as is the People's Party. And what is our view of this? There are two visions in the case of tourist dwellings. On the one hand, there's the total ban on the tide. It's funny, they're opposed to a family renting a house, curious! for tourist use. And then there's, in this case, the National Market and Competition Commission, which says that everything is lax, one lets do absolute. Fortunately, Galicia has a decree that regulates, gives security and enables...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u196	...that the families that use these services have security and control, and that the public archives also have the guarantee that a legal activity is done, not illegal. And if you know anything illegal, what you have to do is report it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u198	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Manuel Rey Varela and ten other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the state of processing of the file for the statement of Ferrol as a city Heritage of Humanity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u200	To put the question, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u201	Mr. President, Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Ferrol, a logical city enclaved in a magical land, according to the words of the universal writer Ferrovan Torrente Ballester, aspires to be the World Heritage Site. A path that begins the Royal Galaga Academy of Fine Arts in 2000 and reaches the consensus of the municipal groups in the Pleno do Concello de Ferrol, which begins working with the hand of the academic Rodríguez Villasante to make the dossier and obtain this important statement. The next important step is taken in 2007. In 2007, the candidacy of the Iron of Illustration is included in the indicative list of UNESCO, especially in the 18th century that Arsenal and the Square City are built, following the rationalistic and illustrated parameters of the hand of the military engineers who arrived at Ferrol to make this very important new set and comply with the royal orders of the bishops Philip VI in 1726 and Fernando VI in 1749, with the hand of important persons such as the Marques of the Teaching, who planned three maritime departments throughout Spain, and with the hand of the marine and researcher Jorge Juan, who manages that all these illustrated techniques apply to these new constructions, which makes it unique, precisely, this high set before UNESCO. The next step, by the Ferrol Council, was adopted in 2013. The Council entrusts the Confederation of Employers of Ferrolaterra, Eume and Ortegal with the digitization, cataloguing, databases, exhibitions and dissemination of the most important research work that had been done in previous years to present the final dossier to the Council of Galicia. With the change of municipal government and after three years of paralysis, coinciding with the mayor's manifesto promoted by the Ferrol Vivo Forum, the Town Hall, prior adjudication, by the way, to a private company for the reformulation of the file, is again directed, after three years, to the Council of Galicia, to the Directorate-General for Heritage. We also know, very recently, that this file would be reformulated again, according to an important part of it, which is the management body, since it is essential to achieve the consensus of the municipalities and the consensus of the Ministry of Defence to go all on the same line. In view of all this information, and the importance for Ferrol and Galicia of this statement, I am therefore officially asking you how is the file found for Ferrol's declaration as a World Heritage Site. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, as I have had occasion to say in my last two appearances, both in the appearance of budgets and yesterday in this House, one of the priorities of the Greek Government in the area of culture management is to empower and bring forward the dossiers that you now have Galicia to apply for the World Heritage, in particular three: the Sacred Ribeira, the Cíes-Illes-Atlanticas and also the Ferrol of Illustration. It's three candidatures that we understand are real, serious and that are somehow oriented towards reaching this maximum recognition of UNESCO's three assets. There are differences. The first two, the Sacred Ribeira and the Atlantic Cies, are promoted in this case by the Galician Union. The third, the Iron of Illustration, is promoted by the Town Hall. That doesn't mean, at any time, that since June, from the Department of Heritage, it makes a difference. It works in a positive way, it works by giving the same support to the two driven by us as to the one driven by the Town Hall. But obviously, the difference is that in everything that has to do with the documentation, with the administrative record, with the procedures, it has to be the Council, in this case the Ferrol Council, who has to take the initiative. The Union has always demonstrated technical and institutional support for this proposal from the Council of Ferrol. In fact, in 2017 there was a very serious risk that this file might fall from the indicative list, and fortunately with the management in this case of the Directorate General of Heritage, it could be kept before the Ministry of Culture. Very recently, I had the opportunity to be in my own ministry and also in UNESCO headquarters in Paris, talking about the three candidatures. We're talking about the three candidatures, we've proposed the two that push the board, and we're also talking about the third candidacy, which drives the Ferrol Council. And you have to have a very present issue, to be declared a World Heritage Site, apart from being a huge privilege, you also have commitments for the proponent teams, for the proponent administrations. There has to be a protection, there has to be a series of measures to maintain cultural values that do fully and universally good, and there has to be a programming, over time, which possibility, with certain activities and actions, to keep that project alive. So far, we are aware that you are working on a document — it is on the website — by the Town Hall. We're working on that document, from a technical point of view, together with the municipal technicians themselves. It's a very complex process, tremendously complex. We've detected some eves in this documentation, and significant ones do, in some way, that the project can no longer move forward. And our technicians working on this document have an obligation to make technical assessments, together with the municipal technicians of the Ferrol Council, so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u205	...you can set up a candidacy that you can pass the necessary filters before UNESCO and achieve a common longing that, no doubt, is to get that architectural and cultural jewel that is the Ferrol of Illustration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u207	...as you have well described, you can attain the mark of the World Heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr. King Varela has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much, above all, for the clarification, because I think it is very important to know that at the moment, unfortunately, that file is not complete at the Galician Union to raise it, by the state, to the center of world heritage, which is what the decision of its registration is made. Of course, we could regret the delay in presenting the complete file. Indeed, the part of the management body is a very important part, but regret, unfortunately, is of no use, I think, Counsellor, that we have to think about the present and we have to think, above all, about the future. So, once it has been clarified by the Council of Galicia, the Government of Galicia, these three candidatures, including, of course, Ferrol's candidacy, which is not promoted by the Board, but is promoted by the holder of some of the infrastructures, such as the Council of Ferrol, what I would ask you is that we try to work together, as they do, because I think we should not lose a minute, not a week, not a month, not a month. We can't waste any more time, because the fact that you haven't presented yourself at the moment removes all the possibilities of your accreditation for this year, but also for 2019 and 2020, because Spain's candidatures are closed to the world heritage center. Believe me, Counselor, that Ferrol deserves it, that the candidacy deserves it. You know this set perfectly, in fact, when we were government partners we could visit it. I therefore ask you to collaborate fully with the Council of Ferrol to defend this candidacy and, above all, to obtain this important statement for this historical set of Illustration, but also for all the ferrolans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u210	Thank you. Close the question, Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u211	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have no doubt but the slightest doubt that the Council of Galicia will collaborate with the Council of Ferrol, with the city of Ferrol and its surroundings, with the set of Ferrolterra, to take forward this very important candidacy, which can assume an economic and social reactivation that fills with pride to the ferrolans and all the Greeks, and get this architectural and urban jewel of the Ferrol of Illustration to achieve what we already understand, but which deserves explicit recognition, in this case by UNESCO, as a whole jewel at the world level. Obviously, we've been working with the Town Hall in this area. We have an open line of work. It has been informally oriented to the current application, the document currently submitted. We are aware that there is a very important asset to be highlighted, because if the file does not fall, it is linked to the management plan. The responsibility of the promoter is to manage the following day the good that is declared Human Heritage, but the management plan, where the conservation and dissemination of the singular values of good is based, until now we do not have it, and to have it, it is necessary that the owners of good, several municipalities — Ferrol, Ares, Mugardos —, the Union itself, the Ministry of Defence and some individuals, are coordinated and aligned in this demand. So we know -- I insist, as we know -- that this initiative is driven by the Town Hall, so far some of these owners of the good, as the Ministry of Defence may still not know about this management plan, are unaware of this management plan, like some other collectives, and it is necessary to start as soon as the elaboration and firmness of a management plan, which is an obligation on the part of the proponent to have — among other things — the "prime" or "recognition" which implies that a good person should become part of this case of a highly competitive world list, as is that of the World Heritage. In any case, as I said at the beginning of this speech, Mr President, it can be absolutely quiet, the city of Ferrol can be quiet, the whole surroundings of Ferrolterra can be quiet, because the Galician Union is working, together with the Town Hall, to push this candidacy, but it is necessary to correct certain eves of the documentation presented so that it can continue to advance in a tremendously competitive struggle, tremendously hard, but ultimately also worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u212	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. in Marea, about the precarious situation of drug-related care services, especially as regards women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u213	Question by Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u214	Good morning, Counselor. See, EUR 769.57 per month; EUR 786.18 per month, psychologist; EUR 1.18.78 per month, therapist educator. Do you know what I am? For it is the professional nominas of the Monte de Gozo Foundation, Project Home, which, as everyone knows, is dedicated to something as fundamental as promoting social reintegration and rehabilitation of people with addiction disorders, which is unfortunately at present because, as the Home Project platform denounces, on behalf of those who ask this question, they are suffering reprisals for such a fundamental issue as claiming work improvements. Better work that simply calls for equalizing the state agreement for action and social intervention, because this foundation maintains in practice a covered company agreement that requires harsh conditions for staff with these payrolls. Look, there's another case of precarious work in our country! To cite a few examples, the fact that there are too many hours. If the state agreement sets 1,750 hours a year, this covered company agreement assumes 1,826 hours, but there have been cases of people who made 2,300 hours a year. And to claim that if they were treated as working conditions to decent working conditions, these people were reprisaled, the seventeen Home Project. But not only that, it's not only a question of work, there's also a lack of continuous internal training, which leads professionals to have to update themselves, and all the proposals for improvement that these professionals have made to the Home Project Management have not been taken into account, so there's an out-of-date update of the methods of intervention of this association with respect to the rest of the state. The reprisals came to points such as that they ceased and moved charges of antiquity and trajectory that had been endorsed for claiming these work improvements. And they also took these people out of their therapies to put out inexperienced people. It is clear that this affects the service, as the service is affected by the fact that the centre of Lugo or Pontevedra had been closed by these same reprisals, or something we specifically ask it, that activity in the centre of the Cernadas had been diminished. The thing is, we're not just in the face of a labor conflict, which is serious, because the working situation in this foundation and the environment is really tremendous. The point is that we are dealing with a matter of substance, which is the lack of assistance resources for the attention of people with addictive disorders. Why? Because Junta rests its care network on this kind of association and foundation, which, like this, trample on labour rights and which, ultimately, although in this case we are talking about a unilateral decision of the Power, depend on the Church in its patronage. So we asked him specifically about a very specific question. It's very serious that in Project Home they refuse to take leads to the center of the Cernadas. Why? Because it affects a vulnerable collective, which are women with addictions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u216	...with children and children in charge, and it was the only therapeutic community that had this reception service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u217	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez Verao. Your time is up. Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u218	Good morning, Mr. President. Madam. The health care circuit for additive disorders is a document that has been prepared in the face of the need to improve coordination between drug addiction centres, mental health and primary care, and always in order to provide an equitable, quality and efficient health care. As it is collected in this care circuit, it is recommended that people with addictive disorders who seek treatment should initially be treated in primary care services, which will result if necessary from addiction units or mental health services, according to the problem that each patient presents. All of this without prejudice to the provision of assistance to patients who access the units directly, as is usually the case with users of illicit drugs. For the attention to addictions in our autonomous community, the Health Council has a catalogue of assistance programs that define the treatments, programs and protocols that regulate assistance in the agreed centres. Within the catalogue, a specific program is included for women managers, regardless of the Home Project. At this point, we are developing a new plan of addictive disorders, in which, in a manner consistent with what the national addiction strategy indicates, we plan to incorporate the gender perspective into the projects to be implemented, and specifically to meet the patterns of consumption most frequently observed in women; introduce measures to provide effective care to those who claimed to be victims of male violence, and preventive interventions. As far as treatment for drug addicts is concerned, the budget implemented in Galicia in the field of addictions in 2018 amounted to a total of EUR 12.381.181, which is broken down into 1.400.039 for prevention; 10,110,000 for comprehensive care including assistance; 682,330 for work insertion; 18,150 for research; and 130,000 for socio-health care in alcoholism and ludopathies. This budget was increased in 2018 by 5% on 2017 for programs to be developed in therapeutic communities, and by 3% for programs developed by non-profit entities in the fields of outpatient care, social inclusion, judicial programs and prevention of relapses into alcoholism and ludopathies. To pay attention to addictions, in our autonomous community we have the following resources. Ambulatory centers, 17 units of attention to addictive disorders, 6 units of attention to alcohol, tobacco and substanceless addictions, including ludopathies. 400 accommodating. In second-level resources, we have treatment support resources and reintegration support resources, with five floors that served 168 people. But besides, both in Lugo and Monforte, and Burela and Lugo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u219	Thank you, Counselor, you have another turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u220	...in Pontevedra we have other care units to treat all these patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u221	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u222	I see you didn't think about the working situation of Project Home. It seems relevant to us that the Board does so, not only because it receives public funds from this foundation, but also because its resources are integrated into that system. Because the reality is that there is still no full and integral integration of the treatment of people with addictive disorders in the public system. That document you quoted this way was available. We had to move forward in that integration and in the increase of resources, and that's not the way it is, nor in coordination. In fact, last September, the Plenary of Vilagarcia asked the Board to move forward on this, to ensure quality assistance for people with addiction problems from the public health system. The plan you mentioned about addictive disorders that are being developed had to be done, because your vigil ended in 2016 and we're in 2018. There's a drop in attendance for people with addictive disorders. You said there's a specific program for women management. But what about women who need a juvenile detention facility as the center of the Cernadas was exempt? And why does Junta not think about a totally arbitrary decision by the Home Project Administration, which no longer accommodates, there are free squares, places in this center, when it's the only one that allows this situation: to integrate women with addictive disorders with their children under the age of three in charge. There's even been a case of a Navy woman who was denied that service. It's awesome. And it seems to us that the care and assistance system and addictive disorders in Galicia cannot be won when part of it depends on associations and foundations... by the way, more and more, many are overwhelmed by the lack of budgets available to the Union, and these budgets of the Health Council are becoming more and more opaque. That's why we asked, what's the alternative for people who were being treated in downtown Lugo? People, for example, who from the Navy are going to have to go to Santiago to receive treatment for their addiction. And what is the alternative and what are the resources for women with addiction disorders?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u223	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The collaboration of the Health Council with the third sector entity called Fundación Monte do Gozo is regulated annually by a collaboration agreement. The latter is dated February 23, 2018, and is confined to the development of psychotherapeutic and educational programmes of integral care in people at risk and with addictive disorders, and the treatment of rehabilitation, in a therapeutic community regime, of alcohol dependence. Funding for the programmes developed by the Project Home entity rose in 2017 to EUR 819,588, and in 2018 to EUR 860,535, which resulted in a 5% increase in the last year. So I don't know why he's talking about opaque assumptions, when the assumptions are published, and one knows exactly what each one of them consists of. According to the collection in the agreement, from the foundation they have an obligation to submit the data concerning the detailed volume of activities and expenditure. In the breakdown sent in 2017, referring to the therapeutic community, 66% of the expenditure is related to staff payrolls, and 15% to residents' food. For the general program, 77% of the expenditure is related to payroll In addition to this agreement, since 2018 they received public funding from the Galician Union, through the IRPF 2017 fund, worth EUR 162.595, for specific programmes, among which are the care in the therapeutic community of women managers. A new call for aid will be issued through the same IRPF funds for socio-health actions in addictive disorders, including programmes carried out in the field of the therapeutic community and in caring for gender needs, with which the Galician Union is particularly aware. All of this contextualizes the commitment of the Health Council to attention to people with disorders related to the use of substances. As a result of the information received in recent months on the assistance conditions offered to people with substance-related disorders through collaboration with the Home Project, the Follow-up Commission provided for in the present-day convention has been convened from the Health Council, in order to assess whether the situation in question undermines the attention given to those who require this service. Since the foundation we are guaranteed that no user will ever receive attention, and since the Galego Health Service we will continue to ensure that we comply with the collaboration agreement we maintain with the Monte do Gozo foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Health Council and the Galego Health Service we have been working to provide as much assistance as possible to people who are suffering from addictive disorders, and, of course, we are in no way in line with the criteria and qualifications of this abandonment honourable Member. We have an extraordinary relationship, with very good coordination, with all the associations that are working in this area, and, of course, we will continue to promote this collaboration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u225	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and six other Members of the G.P. Galician populace, about the evolution that pays attention to dependency in Galicia in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u226	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u227	Thank you, President Counsellor, according to the latest report by the Ministry of Health, Consumers and Social Welfare, Galicia has made a remarkable boost in attention to dependency in recent years. In particular, Galicia exceeds the payout ratio of the whole state by 9 points. Galicia's ratio is 87% and the national ratio is 78%. Above many autonomous communities that today's opposition, in this plenary session, was pleased to compare its activity with that of the Galician Union. We're talking that Galicia, in attention, is far above communities such as Andalusia, Aragon, Catalonia, Valencia or Extremadura. In addition, the dependency waiting list has been reduced to 43.5 per cent in the last year, serving more than 58,500 people, giving priority to professional services in the face of economic aid, strengthening the home aid service, the best rated service by people in dependent conditions in Galicia, and more than 4,600 new squares have been put into operation in day centers, residences and Alzheimer's centers. The aim of the Galician Union for this legislation is to serve 60,000 people in a dependency situation, but as the president of the Union has well said in the debate of the state of autonomy, that is an objective that will be put forward and met during this year 2018: to meet 60,000 people in a dependency situation. In addition, in Commission 3a, you reported that the budget to be allocated to care for dependents in the next year is EUR 383 million, which means that in five years it has increased the budget allocated to dependency by more than EUR 87 million. Regardless of this data, Counsellor, there are still people to attend to in Galicia, you can still make a great deal of progress on dependency, so we want to ask you today: what is the evolution, not only of the people attended in Galicia, but also of the evolution of the Dependency Law in our community? For now, nothing else. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, improving dependency attention is not only one of my department's objectives, one of the objectives of the entire Greek Government, but it is, and must continue to be, a priority of the future for Galicia. The way a society treats its biggest, the way a society treats people with disabilities, and the way it treats all those people who need the most help for everyday tasks, is one of the best indicators of the strength and value of this society. The German social fabric is robust and solidarity, so since 2009 the number of dependent people who have a care resource has multiplied by four, so far as 58,400 people are cared for. This means that the Galician Union has continued to bet on improving support for dependents, even in the most complicated times of the economic crisis. As a result of this effort, the ratio of coverage of dependency benefits is largely above the national average. While in the state as a whole it is 77.5%, here in Galicia we are 9 points above, 86.8%. In short, there are four times as many dependents as they receive a benefit as in 2009. We're better than the Spanish average, and we're much better -- as you said well -- than many autonomous communities, but it's still not enough, so we keep increasing the funds, so we're still agitating the system, and that's why we're always marking new targets. The Union has set itself the goal of serving 60,000 people for the entire legislation, and we advance the commitment of 60,000 dependents served for this year 2018, and I think we will end this year 2018 with 60.00 Greeks and Welsh attended. So for this year the Galician Union has incorporated two important novelties. On the one hand, the Autonomy Bond in Residence, and on the other hand, a reinforcement of more than 1.5 million hours a year of home-help service for the municipalities of Galicia to provide this service. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're moving along the right path, but there's still work to be done. Therefore, if 2018 was the year of increased coverage of dependency care, the year 2019 will be the year of increase of accounts received by all families. In the coming year, more than 19,000 Galician families will benefit from a generalized increase in benefits, a 10% increase in care aids, a 15% increase in assistant aid, and between the 20th and 75th of the Autonomy Bond. Thank you, President
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u230	You have another shift later, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u231	Thank you, Counselor. How easy it is to give magic recipes when you're in opposition, but how complicated it is to solve people's problems when you're in government! What demonstrates the opposition — it seems to be funny — is that when you explain the measures being taken to address people in a dependency situation in Galicia, they give easy solutions to complex problems, but what they show in other communities where they rule, and even in Greek councils where they have been ruling for three years, is that they do not then apply those magical recipes that they so proclaim. It is true that there is still much to be done, indeed, but it is also true that there have never before been more resources to care for people in a dependency situation, there have never been more people attended before, there have never been more services before, and there have never been more squares. Of course, we have to keep going. And we hope that that target of the 60,000 dependents attended this year can be a reality. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close the question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u233	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, it is true that the Galician board is betting on improving every day more the system of promoting autonomy and attention to dependency, but it is also true that in order to achieve this goal we cannot be alone, we need the council's commitment to perform all the hours of the home support service they have granted, and we also need a central government to meet with the philosophy and spirit of the Dependency Law. Just over a decade ago, an executive of the same political color as the current one, designed and approved a very ambitious legal text, which marked obligations both for the autonomous communities and for the central government itself. The truth is, only a part is being fulfilled, and what we ask now is what we always ask for, nothing more and nothing less. Galicia is fulfilling them, financing three out of every four euros of the dependency care system, and what we demand from the central government is that he also finance his share. In this way, the Greeks and the Greeks would have more funding to continue to improve the benefits that the dependents receive. With more innovative resources, such as the Houses of Major or Cohousing, with more professional services, where Galicia is one of the reference communities and already account for over 80% of total benefits. Finally, with more alternatives and greater contancies so that everyone gets bigger as freely as they want. The Galician Union will continue to work on this line, and we will do it, on the one hand, because improving the dependency care services is also to bet on conciliation. Today there are many Greek families who look after their older ones and need more professional support and more accounts, and the Greek Government will fulfill it. We will also do so because, after being our older ones a lifetime giving everything for us, helping us, taking care of ourselves, at this stage of their lives they also need this care, and therefore the Greek Government will not leave them alone, the Greek Government will continue to fulfill. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-07-DSPG090.u234	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. It ends here the Full. Good afternoon, everyone.
