ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u1	The session is open. Mr López Crespo is justifiable to this plenary session. And we go into the agenda: point one, legislating text. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u2	The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea are maintained. The president of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment has the floor for the presentation of the Committee's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The draft law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia was entered into the Register of Parliament on 14 September 2017. The deadline for submitting amendments ended on 19 January and 7 February 2018 for amendments to the whole and the articulated, respectively. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 16 January, heard the Speaker's Meeting, following the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, agreed to request its opinion on this bill, in accordance with Article 4(f) of Law 6/1985 of 24 June, of the Council of Auditors, which it had entered into the Chamber's Register on 2 February. The three amendments to the total return tabled by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, the Galician Socialists and En Marea were rejected at the plenary session on 6 February. For its part, the amendments to the articulate presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 106:33 of the Nationalist Block Galego, 46 of the Socialists of Galicia, 23 of En Marea and 4 of the People's Group of Galicia. Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 14 February, appointed the panel responsible for drawing up the report, which was formed on this same date, with the assistance of this chair speaking to them and the rapporteurs and the following rapporteurs: Mr Aurelio Núñez Centeno, of the Galician People's Group; Ms Eva Solla Fernández, of the En Marea Group; Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, of the Galician Socialist Group; and Ms María Monserrat Prado Cores, of the Group of the Galego Nationalist Block. At the following three meetings, the report was prepared with the final recommendations, which were issued on 28 February. At its meeting on 9 March, the Committee adopted the opinion I am putting forward by seven votes in favour and four against, in accordance with the recommendations of the rapporteur's report. This bill consists, in addition to the explanatory statement, of a single article, divided into 22 paragraphs, and its final part consists of 1 additional provision, 2 transitional provisions, 1 derogation and 2 final provisions. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the Bill of Law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u5	Good day to all and all. I, first of all, want to greet the people who accompany us in the guest and guest gallery—representatives of SOS Public Health and the comarcasal platforms in defense of public health, mayors, mayors, confectioners—the people who are concentrated in front of this Parliament, the people who are closed in the Town Hall of Vilagarcia, the ones who were closed in the Town Hall of Cambados yesterday, the ones who have been in the rest of the municipalities of Salné, the ones that day 1 have returned to the streets of the Navy, the ones that next Saturday will go out to the streets of Verin, the hundreds of people who are following us through the networks. [[Applause]] It is a clear evidence of the concern about the situation of public health in Galicia, which is still growing, and shows that today's debate and vote, of this amendment to the Health Act of 2008, will not be at all a point and end, but will be a point and followed in the struggle for the defense of public health in Wales. Let them be very clear, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counsellor, that today's vote will not be at least a point and a final one, and that out there is the people of Greece willing to defend Galicia's public health despite you; they will continue to defend Galicia's public health despite you. [[Applause]] And when you presented your proposal to amend the Health Act of 2008 on August 2, 2017, with nocturnalness and alleviation, and presented this amendment as if it were a simple administrative process to update some aspects of the articulate of a law that, according to you, as you are ten years old, because it is as if it were a matter of weight, right? The speech thus began to minimize the change they were presenting. And, in this report they intended to impose, they began with the discredit of all those who gave the alarm voice of what this amendment entails, they were professional, entities, collectives, unions, professional schools, platforms in defense of public health, political organizations. Anyone who dared to raise his voice to say, to warn of the risks that this amendment of the Health Act was disqualified by the People's Party, outside this Parliament, had been directly by the People's Party, by the Government, by any one. And since they made public the preliminary draft amendment of the Health Act, there have been no more rejections, hundreds of allegations at the Transparency Portal, which did not get the answer from the Government of Greece. If such allegations and statements were even disqualified in writing against professionals and trade unions, motions adopted in councils and deputies, mass mobilizations in the four health areas they intend to suppress (in Salnés, Valdeorras, The Marine and Monforte). Thousands of people in all of them, thousands of people in the streets, people who don't want to get rid of their areas, because they already know what the consequences of EOXI's creation were, they don't want because behind those suppressions they already know there's no improvement, not much less. On February 4, the streets of Compostela were a cry in defense of Galicia's public health, a cry against the progressive, continuous, unpauseful dismantling of public health that is being carried out by the People's Party since the Union, a cry against the privatization of public health, a cry against budget cuts, media cuts and personnel. And in the face of this historic mobilization as the one that the people of Greece, a government that had as priority the interest of citizenship, a government that had as its goal to rule for most would take note and listen; that would be the normal thing. And SOS Sanidad Pública, who called for this mobilization on the same day 4 from the Quintana square, asked the Government of Galicia, President Fexóo, a meeting to dialogue, to speak, to rectify, to remove that Health Act and to sit down and speak. He didn't get an answer. A few days later he e-mailed the Chair of the Board again and sat down to speak. He didn't get an answer. On March 6, we registered with the Board Registry a new request for a dialogue meeting to sit down and talk. No answer was found. The Galician Nationalist Block has been registered in this Parliament and we have brought the debate on the establishment of a dialogue table to address the situation of public health, to withdraw this amendment from the law and to sit down and talk. What did we get? For we have obtained the fence, the wall of the People's Party, the pre-power, the fleary, the contempt of the President of the Union, who has time to meet with the employer of private health, but not to meet with the platform that summons thousands of Welsh and Welsh in defense of the public health of our country, not even a few minutes to answer that request of assembly; regrettable and indecent, regrettable and indecent. In a democracy worthy of such a name, a president who had not responded to a request for a meeting of who represents thousands of Greeks and Greeks would be inconceivable. [[Applause]] But this is the disguised dictatorship of democracy in which we are installed. The PP, the People's Party, the German Government of the People's Party, had no dialogue prior to the introduction of the amendment of the law; he had no dialogue after the presentation; he had no dialogue in the parliamentary process beyond what requires law and regulation. He only used the pusher and the knee, because the People's Party doesn't dialogue, he doesn't listen, he only practices the politics of consummated facts and his lying story. The Galician Nationalist Block introduced 33 amendments to this amendment to the Health Act, and the People's Party had to accept a word; we presented 33 amendments and the People's Party accepted a word. A whole exercise of dialogue, consensus, worthy of the best of dictatorships, yes, sir!, worthy of the best of dictatorships; 33 amendments and a word was accepted. Dialogue, consensus... he told us that he was first presented outside, that he would soon arrive in this Parliament and this was the moment of dialogue. You've seen it: we're now in the final process and you've seen that's what the People's Party understands through dialogue. BNG has tabled 33 amendments. We tabled amendments, some of them to take account of the issue of gender parity. And then we believe that issues like equality, like progress in equality, can't be empty matters, we have to move forward. So, we tabled amendments for gender parity to be contemplated in this amendment of the law, for the citizen participation bodies to be equal and for the interdepartmental commission to be created in this amendment, instead of "looking for" gender equality, we proposed that the BNG should "have" gender equality. For the People's Party has accepted neither one thing nor the other, with the excuse that it's difficult, it's complex, there may be difficulties. It was evidenced, once again, that March 8 is very good to put drawers on the stand, for institutional statements, but not to move forward in any real measure of equality. When real, concrete measures must be put on the role of equal progress, then the People's Party is neither expected nor expected. Because it's not the same "searching" as "get what," it's not the same "trying to give" as an obligation; there's a lot of difference between one thing and another. And in this law, the People's Party did not accept specific issues, and instead of "searching for" or that the bodies of citizen participation "have" a parity composition. We tabled amendments for citizen participation, which in this amendment is numbed. It suggests an alarming cut in social participation mechanisms, which are completely numbed. The composition of both the Greek Health Councils and the District Councils is no longer collected in the law, it is up to the Board's decision of decrees to its composition. We have tabled amendments to ensure that, as they are in the Health Act of 2008, they are maintained as they are and are convened — as we have asked on several occasions in this Parliament — to be established and convened, because the law of the year 2008 already provides for the existence of these health councils, as they have to be composed, and the People's Party has refused to convene them. And now, with this Health Act, what it does is to numb them and reduce them. What BNG is asking is that they be left as they are, that they be formed and called. The People's Party, of course, follows with its roadmap and has not accepted the amendments of the BNG, just as we ask that the decisions of these agencies be made by most of the two centres, because one of the things the People's Party has done was to inflate them from representatives of bodies of the Board so that then in the decisions, apart from numbing them, there are no majority to be able to make them. These amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block are not taken into account. We have made, of course, one of the fundamental issues of this amendment by the People's Party, which is the theme of the territorial structure. This law requires a consolidation of the subordination of primary care and of the comarcal hospitals in the comarcal areas to large hospitals. They become mere appendices to large hospitals, they will absorb most of the health resources with more than obvious loss of autonomy, services, decision-making capacity, direction; it means a withdrawal from health services and solving the problems of the population, of the workers, of the primacy of economic and business criteria, in the face of quality and close attention. We have tabled amendments for Galicia to have a territorial structure that favours public health, which is close, of quality, with equity, and for this reason we defend a territorial division where not only the existing health areas are maintained, which none of them are lost, which does not remove the health area of Salnes, neither that of the Navy, nor that of Monforte, nor that of Valdeorras, which does not eliminate any of them, but, moreover, that the health area of Cee, of Verín and of Barbanza is created, because we need a health that has proximity. The People's Party said that it wasn't touched, that is, mind systematically when it says this change is to bring health closer to the population. And we present these amendments so that not one single health area is eliminated anymore, but these three are created, because the population already knows what the creation of EOXI meant. And you know, perfectly, that it's not bringing health closer to the population, but it means losing services. They know perfectly well in the Navy, which, for example, if earlier steps were placed in the Navy, they are now placed in Lugo, 100 kilometers away. And it's not just to place the pacers, but to do the revisions, to change the stacks. They know that surgical interventions are now systematically derived from Lugo, 100 kilometers away, private; private entities that, for example, are doing works of improvement and expansion. Why would you be, Counselor? Because you're leaving, for example, if you used to be... if you fall into the evening and night shift, now there's no. What's the next step? Well, it's a service that's going to diminish. Do you know that the archives service has disappeared, that if a person goes to the emergency room, his story isn't at the Coast Hospital, Counsellor? You know there's only one rehabilitation doctor for 80,000 inhabitants? You know this is the situation since the EOXI was created, that everything is going to get worse? Do you know that in Salnes the unit of neurodiatry, of Andrology, that Cardiology and Neurology are reduced to its minimal expression; that if there was for the whole population first it only goes one day a week and they only serve the population of Vilagarcia and Vilanova? You know they hired an anesthetist and a neurologist who, theoretically, are for the Salnés Hospital, but who do services in Pontevedra? And we could go on. We know that in the boat a cardiologist who had to be in the boat passed to Ourense, that there is no rehabilitator, that there is only one pediatrician. We can talk about that in Monforte they've been waiting for a digestive for almost a year. We can keep talking, but what you know in these areas is that all they did was lose services, and you know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u7	...that what awaits them is to continue with this situation. And one of our concerns was the question of staff, one of the aspects we focus on, because in terms of staff, the People's Party can say that we have the best staff, but then what they don't do is recognize their rights, or that staff is recognized with their rights. Health personnel are developing their activities, providing their services in a differentiated way, 300 sixty-five days a year and twenty-four hours a day in an uninterrupted manner. This activity can't be regulated in a generalist manner as if that reality wasn't what I'm describing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u8	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u9	Finally, Mr President. In the Health Act of 2008 the Law on the Legal Status of Health Workers was collected, and the People's Party did not want to develop it. That's why in this Health Act, in this amendment, the Galician Nationalist Block presents a series of amendments to develop this legal status of staff. It is essential to recognize the specificity of the health care staff. It is essential to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u11	And the People's Party had a golden opportunity to collect BNG's amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u12	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u13	... towards the staff...—Finished, Mr. President—and far from doing so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u14	Thank you, thank you very much. Your time is up, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u15	...he didn't. I'm going to follow up on my replica... -- finished, president -- in my replica turn,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u16	Thank you, that's it. Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u17	...because the People's Party is far from taking advantage of the Health Act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Prado, your time is up. Please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u19	...to improve public health, what it does is to make it worse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u20	Your time is up. Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, everyone, good morning to all the guests we have in the gallery and to the number of people who are following this debate outside, in their jobs, in their homes. It's worth a bit of a story. The most important law of the Galician Health System will be reformed without being announced in any election program of the People's Party. It wasn't announced here in Mr. President's investment speech, it wouldn't seem important to you. The People's Party never posed this debate, nor did it point out what aspects of the law, in which sense, wanted to change. The Health Counsellor has never mentioned in this Parliament that he intended to do so. Despite that, on 26 April last year, as reported in the Transparency Portal, the procedure for reforming this law, the most important law of the Galician health system, began. It doesn't say they've met anyone, it doesn't say they've talked to anyone. Four months later, as if they were waiting for a specific date, on August 2, they published it without warning anyone at the Transparency Portal, to give fifteen days for citizen allegations on August 1st. Even the Council was on vacation. In spite of that, in fifteen days they received more than 1,500 citizens' claims that you here, up here, none and they despised. There were 1,500 allegations that, in addition, more than 100 allegations were made by professional groups: doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, Cogami, Fegamp, patient associations... according to your report, in what they deliver to Parliament from the Council, all rejected; you didn't speak to anyone. [[Applause]] In spite of that, on the bridge in December, curiously in the midst of holidays, as if they wanted to look for the day when they could answer less, they approved the board of directors and turned into a project what was before a project. But since it wasn't possible to resist demanding better quality and better public service, they found historical mobilizations, first in the health areas, that you here despised saying that only people were going because they were wrong and paid their snacks. Despite that, we had one of the most important demonstrations in defense of public health, historic in Compostela. You said in this Parliament that the coup of protest or social protest is not governed. Who heard them and who listened to them! You came here and talked about parliamentaryism, about broad parliamentaryism. That parliamentaryism which implies that when the Socialist Party proposed that the councillor come here in September, you used your vows to veto it. That is the parliamentary system of the People's Party. [[Applause]] The Socialist Party has tabled amendments, the groups have tabled amendments to this law, to this reform of the law, more than 100 amendments: three accepted, one negotiated. There was a debate, the only one legally has to be there, necessarily, and where the counsellor had to be here defending his bill, fourteen minutes ago intervening months and a half ago; giving up, unusually, a double turn or a replica shift. In one law of this silence they even gave up explaining their own proposal. You like this law, but they're ashamed to say why. You've done this reform blindly, hidden, like children who know they're doing something wrong. They like this law very much, but they don't count on why. It's embarrassing for them. Because you've never been in defense of this, and this is the public health of this country. In 1986 they voted against the General Health Act, which implemented a system that is a global envy. A system that survives with quality today is thanks to professionals and despite their leaders. [[Applause]] The transfer from that system to Galicia and the creation of Sergas was made under a socialist president, President González Laxe. You put all the available traps, all of you! In the Galician Health Act 2008 you voted against. No, look, Mr. Aurelio Núñez, Law 1/1989, creation of Sergas, President González Laxe. We need to get ready for the debate. You voted against the 2008 law, voted against all the laws implementing the health system in Galicia and voted against the law implementing it in Spain. [[Applause]] You're against this model because it's equal, because it gives you equal opportunities. You don't believe in a model of social cohesion through the state of well-being, and that's why every time they have to manifest themselves in the end they talk a lot but vote against it. You promise very well, but you do very badly. That's why we don't wait for them in this debate and that's why we know you're defending this law for something they don't want to tell. But you like services reduction, because they are unequal, because they feed a system where it's impossible, therefore, to have the same access to the same services. Because you don't have those services. They've been looking for all legal recoveries, all possible legal sub-refugees to modify and trap the system, to reduce and reduce services. We're no longer talking, which would be very relevant, about any participation through this reform, about the introduction of completely deregulation elements, about the entry of private investment into the public system, which you don't want to control, because you want it to be ambiguous so that where nothing is prevented everything is allowed. Where you talk about everything and you don't talk about anything, and where you don't control anything, it's all valid, and that's the law of the jungle that you like. But, above all, you deminuate health services, you've been doing for a long time, and here in this gallery, in the Health Committee, in the municipalities, in the full, in all places where public health is being talked about, is alarming a loss of constant services; that you are not able to deny, because you could deny it. He's in the gallery among the guests of the mayor of Monforte, tell him if it's not true that there's a nurse in the hospital for every 28 patients at night, which goes against any possible care ratio. Tell him if it's not true that an allergologist now only goes one day a week. They tell the mayor of Viveiro or the mayor of Burela that the appointments of eight and nine months for Dermatology, 13 months for Cardiology, because the professionals who had to be there are already coming from Lugo. Tell the mayor of the boat in Valdeorras, or Petín, or Vilamartín, who are here, tell them if it's not true that there are no traumatologists at the Barco Hospital now. [[Murmurs.]] What then? That they have to operate in Ourense, often resulting from a concerted hospital, paying the private one, obviously. They tell him there's practically no rehabilitation doctors anymore and, therefore, 13 months ago, 14 months ago. Those hopes we teach here and you say they're anecdotes. They're filling the anecdote system. Tell them, that they are there in the gallery, the mayor of Vilagarcia and the mayor of Cambados why they have, being the same health area, different rights to their neighbours. Because some — those in Vilagarcia — can go to Cardiologist or neurologist at Salnès Hospital and the others — the Cambados — have to go directly to Pontevedra. Explain why without any clinical criteria, mental health users in this area have to go to Pontevedra if they are over sixty years old for a management decision, with professionals and mental health unit. Why? Tell it or say it's a lie, but they can't, because it's true. Explain this loss of services and then defend, then, that they're defending public health, because it's not possible. We have proposed several amendments, over 100 amendments to this reform in this House, almost half of them by the Socialist Party. We proposed several very interesting, but we now focus on defending services. We're obsessed with securing services and you're obsessed with conditions. What did we propose? That all citizens and citizens of Galicia have the right to equal access to their health care system. It's as revolutionary as that, because that's supposed to believe in the system. So what did we propose? We proposed a catalogue of services, we set up fourteen health areas, each with a reference hospital, and we ensure that in each of these hospitals we have the necessary services. Of course, it's not possible to have an advanced transplant unit in all hospitals, nor in Pediatric Neurosurgery, of course not! But it's necessary, necessary, not only good, but it's necessary to have a cardiologist, to have a neurologist, to have a neurologist himself, to have a traumatologist, to have a rehabilitation doctor. And that, which is the health system that we need, we propose to guarantee it in hospitals, because we have an aged population, with communication difficulties because of our situation and our country configuration, we have problems accessing the systems and you are going to send services to the inhabitants of Petín at one hour and three-quarter, to Ourense, or to the Vice-President at the same time, to Lugo. Tell the president of the Lugo Parliament that you defend a system where your citizens have different access to the health system. That's the system they're defending, and we propose a catalogue of services, which can equal citizenship. Did they say in the first minute? That's not what we're talking about. That's his parliamentaryism. Therefore, we are convinced to defend a system that is equal, that offers equal opportunities; fundamentally, citizenship does not manifest itself because it is paid little, citizenship manifests itself because it perceives the system as itself, because it understands that if there is a tool of social cohesion, like no other, it is the health system, because it feels proud of it, and knows that defending its health system is to defend equality of opportunity and to defend public, free, universal and quality health. [[Applause]] And when we have to commit, it's when we have to guarantee rights, because you're doing this reform for something else, but it's embarrassing to tell them why and so they're subject to inconsistencies. Nonsense inconsistencies, it's not a day to do much detail, but I'm going to recommend three. They take the explanatory statement, they take point seven and they take the last line -- they can do whatever the law has to do -- and you'll see at that moment they defend that health can be an economic motor in Galicia. The Council promotes a reform that says health can be the economic engine of Galicia. It might be a statement to discuss, but we're only going to have the same Council case for not giving a reform report to the Economic and Social Council. Do you know what the argument is? There's no link to Galicia's economic development, and they write it to the same people. How can you stand up for this and expect us to vote for something that they say and the opposite? It's very difficult to hold a coherent speech when you don't believe it, and that's what happens to you, so when we talk about it in Salneo, your voice comes out there, which is the mayor of Vilanova, and says, "We don't want to, citizens don't want to go to the Salneo hospital because doctors are very bad, and there are waiting lists because doctors are very vague." That's what you say. That's why they now say they shield hospitals, and shield sanitary infrastructures with this law, but when you came here to Montecelo's ILP, the one you didn't want to do, and now you're obliged to do as you asked, you said here, through the person who spoke here, that the law is not the place to secure or armor infrastructure, and especially to do it with health services, and now you come to say that you have a law that condones health services. It's very hard for you to hold on to that inconsistencies, but they do because you're able to do that, to camouflage, to confuse each other's speeches. This is a reform that reduces services, this is a reform that prejudices equal opportunities, and that's why we're not going to be, because you're doing this reform to solve problems in your management capacity and we're defending transformative policies. When there are problems of managing policies, they have to be directed to transform the system, to guarantee rights and not to reduce them to have more advantage when managing. You can't make politics thinking that they fit one with the paperwork and the accounts, theirs and the other. You have to make laws thinking about guaranteeing rights, that's what it's about, guaranteeing rights. [[Applause]] We're talking about the welfare system, one of the fundamental pillars, the most important thing we have together with education, surely, and we're talking about guaranteeing rights and you're reducing them. Because if it's not true, they come up here and say that all we tell them is a lie, that there are no such waiting lists, that those services aren't there, that they're perfectly covered where you say they are and not where we say they are. Come up here and tell me if it's true that all the staff you've got budgeted are taking up their job, which is a lie, it's not. You tell us if it's not true that you have the waiting lists made up, why? Because you don't like this system, this equal system, and for you equality is a dangerous thing, you'd give us all the same rights, and that's a problem. Because you think this health care is good to guarantee some service, but as soon as injustice is life, some have and some don't, and what you don't, for poor him! And that's not a system we can defend. You can't ask us to defend a law that you yourself don't argue why you want it, because I tell you that you want it but otherwise, because your reality is what it is, your reality is that you lose services and that in hospitals there are people who have more than seventy years of dating eleven months for a cardiologist. What does a 70-two-year-old man do — one in Burela who told me the other day — with a problem of insufficiency? You're very tired, you have a problem with your head doctor, who says you have a problem in your heart and tells the cardiologist to ask for an appointment: eleven months, -- I've told you later, Counsellor, don't worry -- eleven months, what does a seventy-two-year-old person do when he has a problem and feels insecure and has an appointment for eleven months for his cardiologist?, what do you do? You can wait. [[Murmurs.]] They're all experts, give him the solution. If you have the solution, give it to me. What can you do? [[Applause]] Wait. What's the other solution you have? Pay a private one. Those are the two options you have and we defend a system where you have a third, that your system gives you a fast, efficient, quality and free service. That's our system. We don't make a system to solve the management problems in the offices. We don't want a reformed system to ensure that paperboards frame, we want a system to defend that rights are guaranteed. That's why our amendment is fundamental, so that amendment that you have sat down and said this is not spoken, because you don't believe in this system and therefore you can't ask us to support it. Because you talked about parliamentaryism when you were wrong in the street and in Parliament you denied the debate. Because you don't believe this, so you can pass this law with most of it, but it never contains dismantling this system and that the rest of us are silent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u22	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u23	Thank you, President. Today I want to greet, as the other speakers have done, the people who are in the public, our guests, the guests of the other groups who have come to hear this debate after months of tenacious struggle and those who are outside, at the doors of parliament, on this winter day shouting out to the government, waiting, as all these months, since August, to be heard, remembering that tyranny should not be law. They were many months of struggle, of pronouncements, of protests, of allegations, of proposals, despite the deaf ears of the Health Council. All scorned by the Government! We call for active and passive withdrawal of the project first and according to the bill, to withdraw to dialogue, but it's hard to dialogue with those who don't want or listen to. Yesterday I was reading, in the afternoon, some texts thinking about the debate we were going to give today in this House and I decided to move through my social networks the reflection of what today's debate implies, the adoption of this rule today, the cutout of participation, the suppression of health areas, the scissors, the penetration of industry within our public research. The scissors, yes. The less part of democracy and participation. And the Galician PP, eager for a poor retwitter, answered on social networks alluding to my communist militancy — where I am indeed very proud — but also transferring that there was no less democracy because the matter of this counter-reform was approved by them, the party that won by most. An extremely disturbing reflection that defines what democracy is for you: voting every four years and absolute submission to your taxes. You can't protest. You can't defend rights. [[Applause]] Does the majority offer legitimacy to impose all else their political postulates? Because this law goes from political postulates, of course. Does it give the majority the power not to listen and rule behind citizenship, to roll, to trample, to detach, to vilipendia? Is most of them a plenipotentiary? A democratic majority doesn't rule like satraps. To govern without listening is not most, it's to be a satrap. The people's sovereignty prevails not only in the vote every four years, but their sovereignty prevents them from listening to those who warn of the degree of their actions, prevents them from attending to other reasons. Sovereignty is the virtue of satrap and prevents paying attention to the voice of the most vulnerable, even those who know best, because they work every day and manage suffering. Of those who have to go out into the street -- on a day like today -- in the rain, in the winter, in the cold, of all those mobilizations that have been given in the comarcas and also of the great mobilization that we live in Santiago de Compostela to denounce that all they are doing is an attack not against the rights of health workers and workers, but against the rights of all citizens, even at the time the People's Party votes. Despite the fact that you've protected them for reason, you didn't want to hear a reason that you found them and that you found us in the previous complaints, when we said, when we denounce that the integrated surplus areas are supposed to be cuts, but you haven't listened to and continue to delve into the obviousness of how the health areas are and how the comarcas hospitals are. The evidence is obvious, data has been given here on how services are, but also bureaucracy, but also claims that there are nowhere in the world of malfunction, of things that would fail, of the absence of professionals. The material media is worse than ever, and we don't talk about humans anymore. Data has already been given here, too, enough. And by the way, and I repeat it, and I repeat it in all the debates, you have deleted the agencies so that, according to the statement by the Board of Auditors, they would increase the costs in high office. There's the bills in there. And they can't fool us anymore. [[Applause]] And no, there's no more services in the comarcas hospitals. The forced mobility of health professionals is not to provide any more services. If a doctor or a doctor has an obligation to move one day a week to a comarcal hospital, it's not to provide any more services. Where is the care continuity?, where is the medical relationship, doctor-patient? Are you interested in any of this? If every time you come to a consultation, you're served by a different professional, if there can't be a continuity, that's not a service. The new services that they have put in are, in many cases, totally insufficient. Professionals work with the language outside, you just have to see the professionals who work in home hospital. There is a shortage of staff, they announced in many comarcial hospitals that created this service, of course!, without enough professionals, so anyone creates a health service, and others — as it has been mentioned here today and as we have discussed all these months — have disappeared from the comarcial hospitals. And that's why our group understands that this rule is harmful and that we keep our amendments, that they believe that not only is it necessary to re-centralize the system, but rather to de-centralize the system, that the health areas are not cut down, but that the health areas are expanded. Because there's one thing that's called equity, that you despise, and that's that all Galicians and Greeks, regardless of whether they live in rural or city, should have the same access to health services, something that doesn't happen. You are focused on decentralization, here and in the state, and the reality is that services are worse and worse and that inequity spreads its widths. But, of course, the object of his reform will never be equity. Reasons were also used by professionals when they indicated and warned of the risk of losing the inheritances of primary care, of the dependence on hospitals. Overwork is also a humiliation for health professionals. We have huge primary care professionals -- some are up there -- also at the points of continuous care, but you can't handle 50 patients, emergencies, homes... and take care of all their cuts and meet and work on the conditions they work. And you ask them not to protest, and they tell them, moreover, that they are manipulated and manipulated. This counter-reform with the elimination of areas also consolidates the hospital-centrer, recentralizing model, and excludes the possibility of recovering primary care as a fair element, equalizing the system, as an element that makes attention to the community based on the system; a system that believes in the socialization of rights, access to all, regardless of their location and economic condition. That's why our group also maintains the amendments that require, in the single derogation provision, to repeal Decree 168/2010 of 7 October, which subjected a huge slate above the primary care of our country; something absolutely essential to recover our health system. This counter-reform is also against participation in the design and control of health policies. You don't like participation and democracy in control of what you're doing. Of course, it is quite obvious that they do not respond to requests for information from Members of the House. It is patented when non-structural waiting lists are not published. It's quite obvious, as has already been said here, when they don't even have the right to respond to requests and requests for meetings that make them those who defend public health. You rule not most, rule in satrapy. So, against your proposal are those people and those who are in the street, and they're still going to be. This counter-reform goes against that participation and eliminates a fundamental element: neighborhood associations, their presence within the Galician Health Council and the area health councils. The participation of administrations is good, the participation of patient associations is good, but those elements that represent the whole of citizenship, which have been in addition to thirty years, decades ago, essential elements in the application of democratic rights throughout the country, which are neighboring associations, disappear from participation, and they and they represent — to a lesser or greater extent — those and those who are users — all citizens — of the public system, regardless of their state of health, regardless of their social and economic situation. And you delete us because you don't want to hear that voice. And they also cut off the ability to monitor because, of course, they don't want any kind of control, they don't want focus, they don't want light or tachographs on all the cuts they're doing in public health. We want it not only not to be cut, but to expand. And we also maintain the amendments concerning the composition and functions of that Galician Health Council and those area councils, not only for the preservation of neighborhood representation, of course, but for the extension of control over budgetary execution. Because it's not enough just to check the budgets. There is a key element of your policy: your accounts do not match; you are warned every year by the Board of Auditors. There's darkness in the accounts of public health accounts and an increasing budget increase more and more devoted to the private enterprise. And that has to be monitored and informed by the citizenry, because the rest is not most, it's satrapy. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there is one important element: health and area councils must be closely related to public health policies in the community, because, if not, why would it be useful for the participation of the collectives, of the neighboring associations, if they cannot give their knowledge, information, the day-to-day living in their neighborhoods, the health problems? Health is also those elements and those social conditions that we have talked about here — but you are not interested in prevention and promotion — and are closely related to their cuts, energy poverty, and how you live in different villages, in different neighborhoods. These elements are fundamental in the design of public health policy and must be elements in health and area councils. But you don't want to hear anything about it, and saying it didn't work, you delete them from the law, you don't assume that the responsibility for the operation and enforcement of the law, is the responsibility of who rules. It's the Executive who has to make the rules work. You cannot, in view of your inoperability and inability to put them to work, remove the articles from a pen. Load them, remove them, mutilate them, remove participation. That doesn't make any government responsible. Public research, penetration of industry into private profit. Are those also the goals of the norm? The benefits of researchers and researchers? No, no, no, no. Don't get confused, don't try to confuse us, because the rule doesn't oblige to ensure by law the stability of projects, the public investment in R+D+i; that's contained in our amendment that you refused. The rule further opens the system to private. Do you think they can sell us that this rule, that this amendment, is a marvel because it will allow researchers and researchers to participate in the economic benefits of the results? Let's see how they defend themselves against industry. But even so, do you really think that has to be the goal of our research and our public innovation? Is that really the goal? Shouldn't the project continuity be the goal? Shouldn't it be decent wages for public researchers and researchers? Shouldn't there be no gender discrimination in our hospitals? Their stability, the benefit of the community, the benefit of public health, what is the objective of research? The benefit of a private company, or the benefit of public health? What happens — and we say it as an example — in what is not profitable? What about research into rare diseases, which does not benefit the pharmaceutical industry, the large industry, the innovations of the large multinationals? If there's no benefit, there's no research, and you favor this with this counter-reform. That's what there is, and that's poverty, that's, of course, worsening health, and that's conditioning health to the economic benefit of large companies. They also have the amendments in the folder, and we consider -- we defend it and we keep it in the amendments -- that appreciation and the protection of transfer must be made to the public system, not to the general public. Because you think private profit is also part of the public system, and no, reality isn't that. Of course we agree that there is an industrial development linked to the health industry. Of course you do! Because besides the German Government was the first to charge much of our industry in Galicia. But that has to be linked to the public industry, to production in order to improve the health of Galicians and Greeks, not to improve the pockets of the pharmaceutical industry, the chemical industry or the technological innovation industry, to which you continuously give European funds. And, of course, the amendment also covers the need for financial adequacy in public research. What about public funds? We only depend on the magnanimity of large companies. I don't have any more time, I must finish. I'll continue on the second shift. But we want to remind you, from our group, that these aspects are central and relevant in the design of public health policies that define the health system. And the people who are outside, who have mobilized all these months, are not manipulated, it's not silly, it's people who are in contact every day, because they're users or because they're professional, with public health. They know more than we do, they know more than you do, and the reality is that you decided not to rule with most, but to rule with satrapy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u25	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. I wanted to begin by greeting all the people who accompany us in the Chamber. I wanted to greet the mayors present in a special way. You know from experience that any measure taken by people who exercise the Government, always tries to improve the quality of life of people, even if they are not always understood by citizenship. I ask them two things: I ask them for peace, and I ask them for time for the development of the law and the evaluation of the results of it. I've been a professional doctor and I've been testing for 35 years the constant improvements of Welsh health, with different ones and with each of the consecutive governments we've had. And to hear in this gallery about dictatorship, tyranny, satrapy or lack of democracy to people who publicly, even in this Chamber, have supported certain governments that we all know, the truth is that we must have a lot of value! We live in Galicia, we don't live in other countries. [[Applause]] I'm going straight to the subject, ladies and gentlemen, because I come here to explain the law and not to talk about it other things, and I think I'll take time. Today, it effectively ends the legislative process of this amendment of the Health Act, and the fundamental objective of this law was clear and evident, and fully explicit from the very first moment: to adapt a law of the year 2008 to an organizational structure that was implemented in 2010, and to legal amendments brought forward following the adoption of that law in 2008. Therefore, the fundamental debate — because that seems to be the concern of a large part of Galician citizenship — would be whether that structure implemented in 2010 worked well or badly, and only in that sense could support or rejection of this law be explained. The People's Group has been the only one who's been asking in this Chamber for months by the results of these new integrated management structures. The information provided in plenary by the Health Adviser is as follows. Between 2009 and 2016, the total number of consultations increased in Galician comarcial hospitals by 15 per cent; from 555,000 to 639.000. Interventions ranged from 24,200 to 27.400. In 2009, there were no day hospitals, and today there are 21,700 treatments in day hospitals. 263,000 displacements of citizens living in the areas of the region have been avoided, and 20 million euros have been invested in both infrastructure and technology. Other examples reported in this House, for example at the Marine Hospital. New home hospital service, oncohematological day hospital, second endoscopy room, second rehabilitation consultation, launched a 12 million-euro work to expand it to 4,500 square meters. Salnés Hospital. Enlargement of the Salnés Hospital, which increased space by 27%; appropriations with an investment of 9,400,000 euros; incorporation of oncological assistance; increase from 3 to 5 of the surgeons, from 6 to 10 posts in the recovery and awakening units, and opening a new obstetric block with pediatric emergency area. Another evidence in this House is that the budgets of the year 2018 include 7,600,000 euros to continue investing in these hospitals that the opposition says they will be closed. As a result, the Eoxi system, contrary to what is heard here and what is heard by the opposition, has improved the provision of comarcas hospitals, and therefore the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group are going to support by coherence a law that consolidates this system, which has been clearly beneficial to the Greek citizenship. I understand that for the same coherence, you oppose this change by keeping the 2010 stance, but let me warn you that the Greeks are also consistent and, if they didn't believe it then, it's not easy for them to believe it now either. [[Applause]] The truth is, Your Honor, you've managed to worry a lot of people about this. You led a protest in which you read a manifesto saying -- and I want to quote from the text -- that Junta had the strategy of privatizing health care, moving thousands of patients from public health to private. Many people have been taken to this protest. But let me explain how they did it, so that you can count on the record, with a very recent example. On February 22, the Nationalist Block Galego raised a question in the Health Commission about the referral of patients to private-concerted health. The Government came to this commission and gave detailed details, so much so that the honourable Member himself who made the question thanked and congratulated the high office that he had been answering the same. The conclusion of this data not denied by anyone was as follows: in the last five years, the percentage of consultations and interventions derived from private health was 2.2%. In other words, 97.8% of consultations and interventions were carried out in public health. And in front of that data, what does BNG do? He published a press release with the following headline: "Montse Prado warns that the 348,415 patients derived from them confirm the privatization of public health." I mean, when you ask the Government and these answer to them that the rate of derivation is 2%, you're moving it to society is that the data they've given them confirm privatization. [[Protests.]] According to statements this past week of the Andalusian Health Council itself: "Externalization—privateization, of course, is governed by the People's Party—does not reach 5% in that autonomous community." That is, more than double the theoretical privatization of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. No comments! Citizenship has the right to manifest itself, and we respect it. But above all, you have the right to know the truth about the issues on which it is manifested. This change will bring — according to its version — cuts, privatizations and deterioration; but you never give a single real-time figure to justify your assertions. Despite his accusations of obscurantism during the process, more than 1,500 allegations were made to this draft law, although it is true that only 30 of them proposed changes to the articulation, being accepted and incorporated into the project several of them — despite what Mr. Torrado said here — brought about by schools, trade unions and associations. The law saw the possibility of establishing by decree other territorial divisions, taking into account the available resources and the "health policy directives" — they will remember the flag that was made in the early days, after the amendment, and which was replaced, by an allegation, by the "health needs", which was what the opposition claimed. The district health councils — Fegamp's delegation — have been incorporated; the functions of health and area councils have been modified; the minimum composition of these councils has been included and the consideration as a very serious violation of any threat, coercion or aggression to professionals, which is included in the law by suggestion of trade unions; and also the participation of primary care in teaching, continuing training and research; which was also included by proposal of trade unions. These allegations were added to the draft law. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a legislative amendment which is perfectly legal and legitimate, and made according to the current legislation. Just as the two-party government dropped Losga in 2008 and passed this law that we now think can be improved, we support its amendment. It speaks of dialogue opposition. Obviously, there could not be dialogue in the core of the law, which is the health structure, because it is impossible to dialogue against slogans and falsities like those we have just reported. His position, Lords of the Opposition, on the structure of areas and districts that this law proposes is shocking to the evidence of his 2010 lies, when they also said that this territorial organization would shut down the comarcas and it didn't happen. It shocks the plans that you yourselves had when they ruled. We've already taught here your proposal for territorial organization, which has seven areas, just like the current one, but it has the marine region included in Ferrol's health area. It also shocks the plans that you have designed in other autonomous communities. We spoke here in last plenary session of an amendment that is being made to the Valencian Health Act, which went from 24 to 6 departments per area. I mean it happened because right now it seems that there is an amendment by Podemos, which has 11 Members, and the Socialist and Compromise Party, which defended the kindness of that amendment, seems to be no longer defending it. That's coherence. This law mentions the existence of comarcal hospitals with the creation of health districts, 14, cited one by one in the text, which take as reference the existing hospital institution in its territorial area. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that hospitals are closing and expanding? Now, in the face of these investments, they're not talking about closures anymore, they're talking about dismantling. This law consolidates comarcal hospitals as future health service in each of their geographic areas, continuing to be reference hospitals as it has so far. This territorial organization will not cause any change in medical or hospital for anyone. And on the other hand, it will bring the health service closer to citizenship, which will receive assistance closer to home, ensuring the empowerment of services and specialties at the comarcal level. It will improve coordination between primary and hospital, with coverage performed with the same care criteria and referrals between centers; with unique protocols for the whole area, without differences, and with greater interaction of professionals between the two levels of care. We think, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that it is you who are risking the survival of these comarcal hospitals, in the face of the known difficulty that exists to cover the squares of them and the continuous rotation and vacancies of professionals that occur. And this organization by health area, always respecting the volunteerness of professionals — and here I want to make an allusion to Sergas professionals. I understand that there will not be a single Sergas professional who, knowing that there are needs in a comarcal hospital, because at that moment you can't cover the square or because if you need to, won't come to defend the patient. I will always defend the professionalism of our public health workers. [[Applause]] This organization — I said — will help to achieve the coverage of specialist squares in the comarcas hospitals in view of the possibility that allows teamwork with reference hospitals. It will regulate the displacement of professionals among the different hospitals and facilitate the coverage of possible absences by permits or by work casualties. It will boost rural areas, quite the opposite of what you're spreading in the different districts. We do not agree with your claim of loss of quality and proximity, but quite the opposite. We insist that the quality of our public health will improve, approaching the patient. In the issue of social participation, the Galego Health Council and the area and district health councils are developed. This modification simplifies the regulation of participating bodies to make them closer to the citizen representation and more agile and operational. The law regulates the existence of the Advisory Council for Patients, involving the associations in which patients are grouped, and that some political forces seem to disturb and disturb them so much. Health authorities are considered to be the inspection personnel of public health and health services. And it's included as a very serious violation — which we speak of before — any act, threat or aggression to professional people of Welsh public health. It introduces into the law the open and permanent transfer contest and the professional routes requested by different groups. Interestingly, groups of In Marea and Nationalist Block Galego reject these measures requested by professionals. I'd like to know how they're gonna explain it to them. Teaching, continuing training and research in the public health system are regulated, with the inclusion in the law of the Public Health Knowledge Agency. The public condition of ACIS — this agency — is recognized by law, which did not happen in the Law of 2008. It's a public agency -- as already mentioned here -- similar to the Tax Agency. Public-private collaboration is regulated in research, the patent register by researchers, the possibility of public spin off and collaboration contracts with the private company for the development of technologies, drugs or any other progress that can be transferred to citizenship for the improvement of their health, which enables the generation of high-quality employment and, in addition, income to the public health system. We believe that the investigators of the Galician Health Service are more in line with the People's Party's proposal than with the opposition's proposals. We believe it is important to establish an interdepartmental commission — which comes into law — between health and education. We want children with chronic diseases to be better attended, children trained in health and prevention, and people who insist on the importance of healthy habits in food, physical exercise, leisure, tobacco, alcohol and any other harmful practice for their health. I'm going to finish, Mr. President. This parliamentary group has tabled four amendments to the Health Law Bill. The first three were voted against by the opposition, and the fourth was supported by the En Marea and the Bloc groups and the Socialist Party's abstention. One of them was in relation to the creation of the advisory boards of patients in the area, to increase the participation of patients, real users of the public health system. Another, to clarify the differences depending on the senior management staff at different positions of the Health Council. A third, to enable non-Spanish professional persons or the European Union to be included in this law the possibility of exempting from the requirement of nationality, for reasons of general interest and objective needs, for access to the status of statutory staff of professional health-licensing categories. Today, ladies and gentlemen, a professional who is not part of the European Union who makes MIR residence in Galicia cannot opt for a registered office in Galicia. Article 57.5 of Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015 of 30 October requires the legislative assemblies of the autonomous communities to approve a law to exempt from this requirement. These three amendments voted against the whole opposition. Finally, the fourth amendment replaced in the law the term "specialized" with "hospital", placing value on the work and training of primary care professionals who are also specialists via MIR, through family medicine. This amendment was supported by the groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea, with the surprising abstention of the Socialist Group. I believe that the will of the opposition groups to dialogue is clear: none. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u26	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u27	Mr. Núñez Centeno, I'm not a doctor, I'm a Greek citizen, and I've been watching alarmed for years, like thousands of Greeks and Greeks, to the deterioration of public health. The last quote I asked — despite the fact that the doctor prescribed that I should have been summoned within three months — gave me a year's notice, as well as thousands of Greeks and Greeks. I'm sorry that in view of the reality that we live in the Galicians and the Greeks you put the color aprons to see a reality that is not the reality that we see and that we suffer the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's the real reality. You persist in using a terminology — they speak of armor, of improving services — but reality is something else. A person who is out there today, focusing, precisely referred to this. The People's Party — he said — spoke of armouring the comarcal hospital — spoke of Monforte's. Look, please, if you have a chance, tell him mine won't keep shielding him. Ask him, please, mine won't keep shielding him. Because, where they say armor, what they're doing with my comarcal hospital is turning it into a chronic hospital; they're firing it a little bit; they're tearing it down, they're turning it into nothing. Please stop armouring the comarcal hospitals! It was the request that I was transferred. Look, the Galician Nationalist Bloc will not vote in favour of the self-requiring amendments of the People's Party, which, of course, has a 100 percent level of effectiveness. His 4 votes in favour, and of the 33rd Galician Nationalist Block, they take us for a word. We shall vote in favour of this technical amendment, indeed, and we shall not vote in favour of others. We shall vote in favour of the amendments of the Socialist Party and of En Marea. And we keep the amendments that BNG presented because they seem more than justifiable and necessary. Amendments to the BNG — as I said before — in which we defend gender parity; we believe it has to be a reality, not empty words. Amendments to recover primary care management and management of comarcal hospitals. Without its own direction, without its ability to decide, without its own budgets, it's not possible to have a high-quality, close primary care; nor any comarcas hospitals worthy of such a name and to have a really close health care. That is why we tabled amendments to ensure that comarcial hospitals and primary care have their own administrations and that they have their capacity for resolution — and the People's Party will vote no. Amendments to maintain existing sanitary areas, so that they do not lose the sanitary areas The Marine, The Boat, Monforte, Valdeorras and O Salnés. And so that — we insist — the areas of Barba, Cee and Verín are created. In addition to not losing these areas, we are against the repeal of the law by which the health area of Salnés was created, which was the only one that was created by a law of its own, fruit of the citizen pressure. Of course, we are against that by the back door, with nocturnalness and alleviation, today the People's Party here overturns that law which was the result of an unprecedented citizen mobilization. Today the People's Party will vote for that law to be repealed, and the BNG has tabled an amendment so that it will not be repealed. Amendments to facilitate citizen participation, which by this law the People's Party leaves numb. Amendments to shield that knowledge and research are shielded for public interest and not at the service of private interests; and for the creation of the figure of the investigator staff within Sergas. It is necessary to create the figure of the investigator's staff within Sergas, as the People's Party had promised to the investigator's staff, which they then left behind, Counsellor. The investigator's staff has been dropped. We tabled amendments and kept them so that this could be done. And amendments to defend the interests of the staff — as I was saying earlier —. The staff don't need to be sloppy on their backs, they need to develop the Law of the Judiciary. We tabled an amendment to find out what the real situation of the staff frameworks is; that an annual census of the numbering of existing jobs by services and categories is approved in health centres. An amendment to ensure equal treatment between fixed staff and the contractor; basic and fundamental issues. And an amendment to develop, consensually, Galicia's Health Map; fundamental issues at this point, and that's why we keep them. And, as I said at the outset, today the People's Party has enough votes to win the vote here and approve this infamous amendment to the Health Act, but, even if they win this vote today, they know they've lost the battle...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u29	...they know perfectly well; they know that rejection of their health policy, of deterioration of public health, will only grow. Its roadmap is already uncovered, it is already known, and the consequences of cuts in personnel, resources, deterioration of public health to justify the private derivation of patients and of resources every day will be faced by more people defending the basic, universal, free and quality public health; that they will not have the slightest doubt, that they will not have the slightest doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u31	They're going to win the vote here today, but they've lost the battle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u32	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u33	Thank you, President. It is true that sometimes we have sinned by naive people, because we expected something more to debate about some of the proposals, but the position is absolutely monolithic. However, the level of incoherence maintains and reinforces virtually all the position we stand for. The truth is, there are some things that need to be pointed out, and a fact with a reflection, which may not be correct, but, since it often moves something similar, I bring it to this House. You always defend that your health reforms are very applauded and that's why they win the elections, knowing that the votes are the only one, not by sectors. But by leaving that argument aside, you're right if the damage you're doing to the comarcas, specifically to some, to the four affected, you won't have to do with your municipal results there. And if you have that consolidated argument about the citizen will, then this question is asked: Why in all areas where you want to reduce these services, where hospitals are, don't you have governments? [[Applause]] And on the outskirts practically neither. Because things happen to him, for example, like his municipal group in Monforte, when a plenary is convened to debate this law and the services that the Monforte Hospital is going to have, he's not able to defend it and he's not going to. That's your health defense in those places. You like this law, but they don't count on why, and their municipal groups, when this happens, they don't know what to say and so they don't go. They don't go to the full talking about health because they have nothing to say. If any relationship has what you say about your vows, they think it's happening to them in those places. Think about what happens to them when they offer information. If they offer so little, they appear in the report that all the allegations have been rejected. Now they say they have accepted some, but the report they bring to this Parliament says they are all rejected, all of them. By the way, it's very important to argue well about the laws that change. How does the participation of patients establish? Law 2008, Article 24, point i: "Four vowels representing patient and family associations..." What is the problem? That you don't believe in that and don't call the Galego Health Council, but it's there in the law; it's ten years old the participation of patients. By the way, you voted against it. I'm very glad you've now accepted that patients participate and now make a health council for patients, which is fine, but it was in law. It's very important to be consistent with what is done; I don't say anything anymore, about whether, in the end, health is going to be an economic engine or not, because... well, now they're even going to have a third position: it's going to be an economic engine or not. They can include it in the law, it will be more coherent. You know it's all true but something. We defend services, that's our proposal. We propose this catalogue, that catalogue of which we have been argued that we were not talking about it. And besides, how will it be possible to establish in the comarcas some of the services we proposed in the catalogue? That was an argument you raised. If only to go to the services that Junta says to offer in the comarcas! —to offer. Everyone we propose in the catalogue is at least at some comarcal; all of them. Or aren't they? You all clear up if they are, but you say yes. So if you're at some comarcal, it's possible and, if possible, we're defending equal access for all citizens. Those services that you offer, we say: we ensure that they are offered. It's not that complicated, you have to have a transforming will to equalize services and offer an equal level of accessibility for all citizens. That's what we propose. You, who don't argue particularly much against it, must have the will to vote against it. I'm almost convinced. You know how naive you are, I'm going to believe that up to the last moment you can vote in favour, but it's about securing services. Because it's not possible to say that we have problems for the professionals to go to the comarcas hospitals and then say, of course they're going to want to go with this new law, because the professionals won't let anyone out. Of course they don't let it go, and that's what you take advantage of when you reduce staff; they take advantage of the fact that the professionals of this system — who are the ones holding the system — don't go home at eight o'clock; they stay there, they work more, they call from home, they ask, they make extras of their work and they work hard enough. If you argue that there will never be a professional who will leave no one out and who will answer where they ask, do not argue with me after there are no professionals for the system. How about the police system, the teachers? How do you do it? We have millions of ways. We positively discriminate, we give better working conditions, we promote more, we give more points in internal promotions. There's a lot of systems, which you don't want to transform this system. In the end, they like this reform, but they don't count on it, and so you can't work. Of course they do more infrastructures without more personnel. To build more spaces in a hospital for the same staff, what does it lead to? To a loss of quality. We defend that service proposal, we guarantee services, and that's what's going to decide whether we want to defend services or something else. We are for equal access to the health system, for equal services, for free public health, for quality, for universal health. That's what we stand for. And you, if you have to vote on this... I have the feeling that, in the end, you talk a lot and promise a lot, but when you vote on services, as always, as in your entire public health story, you will be against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u34	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u35	Thank you, President. It's impossible to argue with slogans. I've never listened to any of the worst excuses not to debate the amendments to the opposition. Please don't try to demonize, don't despise the work of opposition groups, Mr. Centeno. They may not like it, they may not agree, but they are amended at the same time as the proposal you put forward, even more so, because they come from a public debate, from a debate about citizenship; they have them in their notebooks, they've had them all these months. And don't cheat, because it's true that you got to the paper by informing that there was nothing to talk about about about the health structure, because the Health Council wouldn't let you debate a single amendment. So don't cheat, don't try to demonize, because obviously there wasn't even debate. There was no debate on why 7 health areas and not 14. What is the scientific, political, administrative document in which you came to cut down the health areas? It's not the EOXI that have to condition health planning, it's the other way around. And if there was any will, they would not only go back to some agencies, which were already unable to serve to improve public health services, but would expand the areas and decentralize them. But that's not in his schedule, and that's the reality. They say that researchers are more in line with the amendments of the People's Party or with the proposals of the People's Party, which has been stated in the committee. It seems to me like absolute sovereignty. Do you know if the Pondal Parga, the Miguel Servet, if those men and women who have remained unable to continue with their projects agree? You know, in addition, if these people, like that fellow who reported gender discrimination at the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex, do you agree? Have you really spoken to those who defend public health? Or did they talk to some and talk to the industry? Because they don't fool anyone, you just have to read the text they propose, and they say, "Health administration will also drive measures to develop the reverse transfer of knowledge that will include manifesting by the productive sector of their needs" — from the needs of the productive sector— "in order to help guide the lines and objectives of research of public health research centres." I mean, it's the companies that condition what health research is going to be done in this country, not the other way around. And it's not the maintenance of quality in the employment of researchers and researchers that motivates this legal change; it's the weariness of profit; it's not, of course, the improvement in the health of Galicians and Greeks. It's ridiculous to say in this rostrum that it's the opposition you don't have will, that you only listen, that you're the Democrats. All the rest of us are wrong! The king must be naked, and he doesn't want to admit it. And I've read to them here on one occasion as the Galician Council itself replied, the Council itself, part of the allegations, saying that they were not contributing anything, that they didn't take advantage of any of them. It's written. You have no shame in disregarding even in writing the successful or disagreed allegations, according to your approach, that some mayors, mayors, trade unions, social groups or patients' collectives have formulated. But it doesn't matter, because you never recognize any kind of mistake, we're all the other wrongs. You're always right, that's why thousands of people have been mobilized in the streets since you started walking in August -- precisely when they thought no one would find out -- the foreword of this counter-reform. Because it's reforming the reform of a law that you have mutilated all these years, and sometimes the laws have to change them with the passage of time, right, but never to make them worse, always to give more rights and more services, or that's what we think of some of the people we're here, because we consider politics to be a central element in defending the right to health and the rest of the rights to citizenship. For me, the social protection system and the public health system with the universal and equitable element is the largest that can have a people, a government, a citizenship, but it's mutilated, and it's no longer universal, and now it's not fair and not throughout the territory there's the same health care, and with this much worse law. And, of course, we agree that primary care is a specialty, but to give it character as a specialist it is also done by the recognition of its work. When they don't have elements to work, when they remove the derivations from other specialists, when they question their ability to decide about their own work, they're not being given the status of specialists. It's not done on paper, it's done in practice. And, of course, there are elements of equality. We are pleased that the Secretariat of Equality is accepted to be part of the design of public policies, but we also believe that there must be mandatory parity in all bodies and that it should not be left to the referee to see it if equality one day comes by work and grace of the norm. The reality is that, and since I don't have time, I'm going to finish now. You're going to pass this law today without hearing what they were saying to you from the street, even if you're here saying something else, but you know inside you don't know it, not only for the proposals we've brought, but for all those people who are outside today and who have been all these months. You're listening to me, but you're not listening to me anymore, so I'm going to address those who listen, and I'm going to ask them, like Benedetti, not to surrender. You know that from here on social conflict is going to increase, and we have no shame in going to social mobilizations, because, like Marcos Ana, what we're not going to do is ask for mercy, we never ask for it, and we wear flags, each one of them, and everyone that of public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Torrado, you referred to the result of the municipal elections in the municipalities where there was a comarcal hospital. And what did you mean by that, what do we have to remove the law to win the municipalities or what do you only legislate to win the municipalities? Look, I'm a militant and public representative of the People's Party, and I'm a member of the People's Party because I think the laws have to do them for the welfare of the citizens and the citizens of Wales and not to win the municipal elections. [[Applause]] During the presentation meeting this group offered up to seven compromise proposals, of which only one was accepted after a visit to the larger part of En Marea another amendment. We also accept three amendments from the Socialist Group, one of them on the right of different groups to choose their representatives. And here I believe that the approval of this directly affects absolute parity, because we would force associations, unions, to choose — of odd number — certain sex. We would remove the freedom of choice from the groups. In the territorial organization it was impossible to reach agreement, we explained it. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to include a catalogue of minimum services in a hospital. I would like Mr. Torrido to explain to us here how many local hospitals in the autonomous communities have a catalogue of services like this, which, by the way, is tremendously varied—if some professionals look at it, you'll see that it's a tremendously varied catalogue of services. And I'd also like to know that autonomous law contemplates the existence of a service delivery catalogue. Mr. Torrado, who we are all used to listening to, with his fine irony, has repeatedly set himself up with a proposal from this group to modify the name of the Marine Hospital, and presents a proposal for health areas with two amendments to its name. It's about Land of Lemos and Valdeorras. It seems to us that name is correct and we wanted to incorporate it into the districts, but Mr. Torrado did not accept the transaction. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela denies it with his hand.]] What surprises you, Mr. Vega, that Mr. Torrado is presenting an initiative in that regard? They want to show here a catastrophic situation of Welsh health and also the problems of researchers. I want to remind you that if you're producing with your law, not with your change. Did it ever happen to them that maybe the change you're making is to improve what's going on now? If there was dialogue on other topics, on two other topics, in participation and research. We agreed on the minimum composition of health councils. Interestingly, the opposition voted, as we have already said, against the amendment of the Popular Group for the advisory councils of patients in the area. Of course, that's the reality. The BNG Group itself has tabled an amendment to withdraw the Patient Advisory Council. That's reality, which matters to some. On the subject of research, we agreed with the Socialist Party to improve the transparency of Sergas' research projects. In Marea it was not in agreement with another transaction proposal that we offer to ensure transparency, to say textually that the research system will have as its sole objective the benefit of the Community, social and public. So the opposition's fallacies are clear: the PP wants to privatize the investigation, but when he offers them the amendment, they don't accept it. The PP wants to load comarcal hospitals, just like in 2010, which has already been forecasted and not met, but nothing happens. The fusion of areas is bad when proposed by the PP, but it is good when proposed by the two-party government in a document. PP wants to favor private derivations, and when the data tells us that this derivative is 2% it is not cited. Or, of course, the PP spends 205 million on concerted private health, but, of course, in other years that didn't rule the PP were destined to 216, so that didn't generate any kind of problem, that wasn't privatization, it was outsourcing, as I told them earlier. We must reject many of your amendments, ladies and gentlemen, because they refer to the original text of the law. If the Government proposes to make an amendment and the People's Party, the parliamentary group, supports that amendment, we cannot resume the previous law. We defend open and permanent transfer contests, we defend chapter III of research, we think that drafting, as we have already said, is more beneficial, and we support this law because we have a clear criterion. You don't seem to have it. We have been in agreement with the implementation of the EOXI, we have evaluated the data that confirm that this deployment favors the comarcas and now we support the law that consolidates the structure. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has received a mandate from the Greeks, a majority support, so that we dare take steps to improve our public services, not to win the municipal elections. As always, time will put each one in its place. I will not remind you, ladies and gentlemen, what we have heard in this Parliament about the situation of Welsh health, telemedicine, telephone consultation or many other things. Here's the feeling that we're in the center of Africa, in Cuba or Venezuela. No, no, we're in Galicia. We are not going to vote in favour of amendments from the groups. And allow me to finish, Mr. President, with the conclusions of a meeting between the Councillors of Health of Andalucía, Madrid and Canary Islands held last few days. We have to make health stop being a daring weapon. Health must be an issue of consensus in politics. Some formations and others use health against the party that is in power; but even if this enters the political game, it must end, because we all want the same, proper attention to the patient. I ask you to stop for a minute, ladies and gentlemen, to think of these conclusions, to value them and to act accordingly. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u38	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u39	Close the doors, please. We voted for Ditame, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Bill amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. We refuse to vote on the amendments. First of all, we voted for amendments by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law amending Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of health of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u40	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditam, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u41	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. Voting G.P. amendments. From Marea to Ditam, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u42	Finally, we shall vote on the Commission's ruling on the amendments which have been incorporated, if that is the case. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Bill amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Decree on the Bill amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health is approved. Open the doors. The vote was closed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u43	We move on to the second item on the agenda, which corresponds to the appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Councilor of the Sea, on his own request, to take account of the developments in the marketing of products from the sea in Galicia and the proposals for the future for its improvement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u44	To formulate the appearance you have the word the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my intervention by addressing all the women and men of the sea, for these are the people who, with their daily work, make Galicia have one of its fundamental pillars in this ed. I also want to add special words to all the people who give technical or administrative support to these professionals. Their work in support of the sector to maintain its viability is also absolutely essential. The sea is an ongoing challenge for its idiosyncrasy. Their variability and changing conditions force us to always be alert; they force us to have a strong plan that will allow us to mark the best course. The maritime-fishing sector is going through today for a moment of push. Our sea-industry chain is moving firmly in the waters of competitiveness and sustainability. Keeping that advance, adapting and generating opportunities and strength where there may be threats or weaknesses is the task of the board I'm directing. Maintaining this progress requires planning; much of it is supported by a firm strategy that takes precedence over increasing the competitiveness of the sector and improving marketing. But let's do an initial exercise. Let's look back and analyze together what the state of our sector was. Understanding where we came from and knowing the past mistakes is how we should know the way in which we should walk. In 2009, the first thing we did was to make ourselves available to the sector and its marine industry chain for the supply of adequate tools that would allow you to stop the falling into bites on which it was installed. In 2018 our task has to do with maintaining the course that has shifted the figures of that time and has achieved the ones that we are now presenting in this session. Today we have positive figures in all areas, those that reach sea-fishing. I don't say, tell him the data. I compare here today to reveal a photograph, a photograph that collects fragments of the past, fragments of the present and shows us the results that put us on the path to the path to a good future. This photograph is centered on four axes. The first issue is quotas. The situation of departure in 2009 was bad. In the period 2005-2009, the global quotas for Spain in the waters of the North-West Cantabrian, the Great Sun and France were reduced by 55%. So we lost the possibility of fishing more than 125,000 tons of fish and seafood and a billing potential of about 330 million euros. In 2009, with the arrival of a new fisheries policy for Galicia and a way of managing in co-governance with the sector, we managed to reverse the situation by up to 80% of our quotas. I'm talking about a profit of more than 80,000 tons and an increase in billing potential of more than 220 million euros. This data exemplifies what I have always defended: a good joint work between the sector, administration and scientists that demonstrates the good state of resources will always make the best of the fruit. We move on to the second issue, the composition of the fishing fleet. Here too, the situation of departure in 2009 was bad. From 2005 to 2009, we have suffered years of continuous decline in the number of fishing units in our fleet. Our fleet lost capacity, it lost more than half a thousand vessels. In 2009 we were able to curb that fall and contribute to a moderate recovery: halving the number of vessels that caused low. And by 2016 we had an increase in the capacity of our fleet, both in terms of archery and power, with slight adjustment in 2017. Today, the base port fleet in Galicia is made up of more than 4,400 vessels, of which 96% make in the national locker; a fleet that is responsible for 84% of the downloads and 64% of the first-sales billing on our shores. If we go down to the detail of each segment of the fleet, we can find some examples. In the case of the north-west Cantabrian national fence, it grows in both number of ships as well as in archery and power. Or the long-lasting national squid surface and the fleet of the Great Sun, which maintain their composition in number. The third issue, the reference to the human component, the women and men who work at sea between July 2005 and April 2009. Galicia had lost more than 3,700 jobs, an average of 1,000 jobs a year; a severe fall that we managed to get to brake progressively and considerably, but which is still far from what we wanted. Anyway, we're starting to grow a little bit, but positive, because membership data is encouraging, and they've been stable since 2015, growing 1% since 2016, and because unemployment data is also sound, they represent only 1% of the total active population in the sector. Similar was the starting situation for the granting of seafood permits. More than 200 permits were lost during the period 2005 to 2009, while production areas were progressively lost. In less than four years, more than eight hundred seafarers stopped going down to the beaches. From 2009 until now, we've been trying to reverse that descending line. We have achieved that operating permits are maintained in a balance between the number of casualties and the number of discharges. We're working on the recovery of production areas, and adapting their exploitation in a sustainable way. Since 2009 we have granted 2,000 operating permits. 2015 was the year in which more new permits were granted. It was the highest data of the decade and the evolutionary inflection point of the last fifteen years, since for the first time it had increased the number of marishers since its professionalization. I'm saying with this that, even though there are slight variations either up or down, right now we're in a stable period. We must even be optimistic, since the evolution of far-sighted discharges and sales in 2017 has been extremely positive in terms of walking seafood. They grew to 25% of the downloads and increased their billing by 15%. The fourth and final issue is what reflects the discharges made and their economic value. In this respect, the situation of play was also very hard. As I said at the beginning, we started from a drop in the quotas of 55%, in tons, and in value, compared to 2005. This means that productive work was scarce and sales on the far side left part of the billing on the way in the 2005-2009 legislation. It was a very complicated situation, but we also managed to turn positive, to get a general discharge sub and also billing. In the last year, 2017, we sold more than 212,000 tons of fresh fish and seafood at first sale, which assumed more than 500 million euros. We've been marking a historical milestone since there were records. It's never been downloaded and billed so far. We evaluate what these data represent for the sector and throughout Galicia. In terms of first-sales data, 2017 was the best exercise in the historical series, with more than 25% above the annual average. In terms of invoicing volume, 2017 is a record of the historical series, with about 20% above the annual average. We passed for the first time — as I told you — the 500 million euro invoicing barrier at first sale. If we put that data in a territorial perspective, the three Galician marine provinces increase their billing and hit the record for the first time this year that we've just finished. The areas of Vigo, Arousa, Coruña, Ferro and the Navy are shining out driven by their great distances, and the rest are kept in a stable position. By this I say that we must continue to do so, adding figures and working on all the EIDs, because this improvement is a fact shared by the entire fleet of all areas and segments; segments in which it is worth highlighting the billing of the minor arts, with 18,500 tons downloaded and more than 100 million euros billed. Therefore, it records a positive evolution of more than 5%, both in downloads and sales, compared to 2016. It's also remarkable the improvement of the figures reached by the fleet of siege. 45% of Galicia's total discharges were made by this sector, they increased their discharges by 40%, and their billing — which was 40 million euros — increased by 10% compared to 2016. Some people can attribute these figures to chance. And I can assure them it's not like that. I mentioned at the beginning of my speech the need to have a planning that marks the direction of our sector, as well as its possible drifts, a strategy that is based on active listening to the sector and where competitiveness and marketing play a key role. If the rossel of this planning is the one that will lead us to 2020, it links it to straight challenges for the Greek fishing is our future. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the only possible support: that of the facts. Without the trust that emanates from the accountability that I'm doing right now, I couldn't come up with any new proposals for the future. Future proposals that focus today on the marine product marketing industry, an industry in which Galicia has a total predominance in the state as a whole, since we own 45% of the business fabric, more than 200 companies are located in our community, we generate more than 60% of the global economic value — more than 6,100 million euros billed — and we have 60% of the employment — more than 13,200 jobs. An industry in which Galicia makes not one but several very strong bets to improve marketing and continue to re-edit good numbers. In particular, we make four bets, four lines of work or bets that should lead us to reinforce the raw material, improve the quality of the products and their placement at the new points of sale, internationalize our market and identify and differentiate our products as the basis of this process. All with a bet for enriching what we know best to do: fishing, fishing and transforming our products. That is the key to the success of the Greek Sea and what gives us an advantage over other regions and countries that have failed to close the cycle and possess all the links of the sea-industrial chain. But the basis of this bet for transformation has only one point of support and only one reason to be -- only that is, yes -- the added value that gets. Go to show a button: a kilogram of processed sea product reaches almost 5 euros on the market, while the fresh product kilogram reaches half of the value in length. Our first bet is therefore to have more and better raw material, under the premise of sustainability and with the foundation of maintaining quality in a preeminent way over quantity. Because neglecting the quality while we add up amounts can lead us to kill the chicken of the golden eggs. That's why we propose to go on the basis of two performances. On the one hand, to improve internal supply by achieving an increase in quotas, as we have seen in both the European and international framework, based on agreements and relations with third countries, and also expanding the maritime areas. In this sense, for the period 2016-2020 we will invest 37 million euros to protect and recover marine biodiversity through better management and conservation of marine resources and their ecosystems, which leads to further improvement and regeneration of seafood areas. On the other hand, it continues to adapt the offer to the demand situation. It's not worth bringing fish if we saturate the markets and take the prices. Cutting the gap between the upload and the billing has to be an issue these years. To this end, we have a key tool: fisheries producer organisations, of which Galicia owns 80% of the existing ones in Spain, and which the European Union recognises capabilities and possibilities that overlook the other entities and standards. The production and marketing plans of the Greek producer organisations have been allocated more than a million euros since the entry into force and the launch of the new European Maritime Fisheries Fund, which is already a guide for the work of the coming years. We've been looking for these to get data like the increase in the discharges in the lengths, which in the last lustro grew by 30%. Our second bet is to maintain and increase, if that's possible, the quality of our products, and win presence and market share with them. That's why we're working on a triple track: competition and competitiveness, access and market adequacy. In competitiveness, betting for it with a contribution of 96 million euros for the 2017-2020 period in aid to small and medium-sized enterprises for the transformation of fishery and aquaculture products, of which we have made 12 million euros available this year. In competition, giving shape to a change in sales forms, from there we bet by introducing a greater number of bidders into auctions, with a bet on the digitization of the lengths and online access to the pockets, which will increase the presence or not of the potential buyers. In market access, taking into account new marketing channels, changing logistics formulas and diversifying online purchasing care. Both materials also contribute to LAGs, and for that we will increase their budgets by 50% for this period. This route must be complemented by improved products, working to continue to suit their format to see what an increasingly changing consumer demands. One of the demands that you need is a continuous study and a constant investment, so that in the budget for 2018 the game will grow to improve marketing by almost 40%, approaching 9 million euros. In addition, we must give normative body to developments and changes in marketing, for which we propose to articulate a new decree updating the legal framework in this matter. Having done the work of the sector and adapting it to the emanation of the state aid, we are ready to take the final form and serve as a tool and basis of the proposed advances. We try to re-edit positive figures with this in mind, as we see from the fact that the Welsh marine product marketers are now making four times more progress than is done by the Spanish food sector. While the national industry as a whole did not reach 2%, Galician income in this area rose by 7%. This bet is also about re-editing the value of processed products on the markets, for which we have to contrast the EUR 3.5 per kilograms that were recorded a decade ago to almost EUR 5 per kilograms of today. The third of our bets is internationalization, with a clear objective: to expand markets under the premise of helping industry expand its business contacts and expand its activity beyond our borders. To that end, we must continue to participate actively in the fairs and international events, even if possible expanding the presence at the dozens of national and international fishing and feeding fairs to which we attend. We're in Boston, we're in Paris or Hong Kong, and we're going to have to continue to analyze those that add up to them. To that end, we should also continue to develop strategies and tools, strategies and tools to create synergies and to deal with international markets in terms of solvency, since they are extremely stringent in terms of volume and quality, which forces them to assemble potentials and to ensure that employment and supply are maintained. But this has to have a basic ally: the sector. From this line of alliances came out last year the Plan of Conservation, and from this line will have to exit, if this is what the sector demands, a plan of freezing that marks the right course for us to succeed in 2025. We've been trying to improve our numbers. Exports this past year have surpassed the barrier of EUR 2 billion. We'll never sell that much outside before. And before the end of the year the value of the exports was over 5% the value of the previous year. The fourth and last bet goes on to keep us able to catch not only the best fish and catch the best seafood but also getting consumers to approach it, differentiate it and choose it above other products from the sea. To do this, we have to promote consumption, label and trace its source well and identify it with a clear, simple picture. This aspect is fundamental. To promote consumption we must continue to promote its inclusion in the menus and the culinary tastes of consumers, especially children, in order to avoid losing a generation of fish consumers. From there, the importance of programs and events such as the starting points in schools, which allowed us to approach more than 100,000 children since 2010. All parties and events of exaltation of sea products are also important. From a festive perspective or from the private bet of restaurants and hosts, you can support the lines of the economic bet that LAGs keep — which have 50 percent more budget, as I told them earlier —. In the line of labelling and traceability, we must continue to promote simplicity in order to facilitate understanding, in addition to continuing to deepen the correct follow-up of products, going beyond the regulations. In this sense, the next initiation of the scan of the lengths and the increase in the network of ticpesc boxes will help to improve this open front. Finally, in the wake of clear identification with Galicia, we must use tools such as European basic labels, as well as protected designations of origin or eco-production. This never ceases to bet by multiplying those identified by others of different quality, such as "fishingRías", as it has been done. Even if we go too far, we must make use of the differentiation and identification of our products even in the malls. Using experience and advances in university education in sensory analysis of food products, we propose to develop training courses so that professionals and experts can help identify and evaluate the different and higher organoleptic conditions of our seafood products. So we want to continue on the positive line that confirms the Higher Council of Scientific Research when it points out that the global trend in national markets is towards a decrease in the wrong labelling, which increased from 12% to 5% between 2015 and 2016. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are sinking into work to pay off the pending fishing and seafood account in Galicia: marketing. We are, for that, betting on valuing a unique and simple product: ours. We're about to advance in the only matter in which we are the first to be able to sell better. We have good billing, export, capture and a long et cetera, but we have to go further and focus that effort on valorization. Let me give you a couple of examples: the bear was worth EUR 1.5 per kilogram in 2001; today it is worth EUR 6 per kilogram; the boga or jarda doubled its price in that same period. That's the way we should go. We fish and we fish in a privileged place, and that privilege must be identified in the markets to make it an immaterial value that is recognized and answered by consumers. How? I repeat what I always say, under a bet that gives us the result you have to keep giving us: quality. Quality is the word, but what is the quality? The quality is to satisfy the customer's expectations, quality is to make the customer generate confidence, we must continue to meet them so that they return the work we have developed in a way of trust. The data tell us we're on the right track to put Galicia at the top of the table of marketing, but the work of marine Galicia is a work that depends on many factors, ally and own, external and intrinsic in the sector. But when that work has a good guide, when that work is accompanied by the effort and knowledge of the sector and administration and of the scientists, at that moment alone, it is when the results we present today are achieved. New legal framework; advances in markets linked to digital access, purchase and sale; enlarged budget bet; expansion of the promotion of our companies and their products abroad; enhancement of traceability; identification in markets and terminals; strategic planning; adequacy of supply and demand. All this is the new or redoubled bets to win the future of marketing. I always say it, ladies and gentlemen, we must have, and we have, a set of measures, because there are no magic formulas, only work, effort and knowledge, only that's how we get the best historical data for our sector. Only in this way can we get this data today to stay short, it depends on us, and in that we will do all our work. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u46	Thank you very much, Counselor. We turn around the parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] You have the floor on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u47	Good morning, Mrs. Quintana. I don't know if you believe that the problems of the sea sector and you in the agendas don't cross, that you think that coming here to Parliament to appear is a procedure that needs to be done to meet a coupon and that the problems that people have — and what you come here to tell us — can wait, because you have a sheet where you point topics, and you may be waiting for you to have a slot to come up and talk about the problems that are out there. It seems to me that no, that you should be obliged when there are important problems out there to come and talk about them. Not from such a subject of those preparations, canned, which goes to speak today, March 20th, as it could be to speak at the plenary on April 6th or at any other plenary. A government that wants to exercise as a government of Galicia and an adviser who wants to exercise as a sea councillor, as a sea of Galicia, not from any other place. Then I'm telling you this because you know perfectly well that you've got the fleet of the garden back in town. He made here a relationship — self-congratulating is not the word — of the evolution of the sea sector since 2009 of a Galician country in the country of wonders in quotas, so and so on, I don't know that, that, in truth, I don't know the management or consulting that gave him that report, but I think that, of course, he didn't go through there, by the docks, nor did he talk to the sector. But, well, in any case, you have the fleet of the garden in the village and those quotas that you have every year... you said the quota situation since 2009 in Galicia was fantastic and spectacular. Well, of course, the reality is that every year the quotas for this year 2018, for example, for the circle about the yard and so on, they dropped by 20%, to which you have to add that payment of the fine of 5,000 kilograms, which is another 5%, which means that it almost stays at nothing. For the fishing campaign conducted in the Cantabrian is another year in ruins: the reduction of quotas and the distribution system because it is seriously at risk for this season another year. Last year, for example, in Pontevedra province, it lasted seven days, and this year the prospects are that can last for two days. And you're in front of that situation that's out there and not a line, of course, because that can wait for next year's campaign. Because last year seven days, this year the possibility is that it lasts two, either for the year it lasts one day or it doesn't last anything; but you don't have to come here to talk about these things because they bother, those things are annoying. And you know that if it weren't for the client's policy that you practice people would be on the street, it would be burning the street. In view of this situation, you don't have to come here to talk about these issues, you have to bring us a management report. And then the fleet of the garden is in the fabric of going to the Cantabrian campaign -- which has a quota that can last two days -- or not go; the costs don't cover them, they'll spend more. What's going on is that with the distribution model that you accept to the Spanish State, if they don't go the same way, they're still losing those historic rights that you make the distribution system. It turns out that Galicia accounts for 1.6 million tons, 16.47% of the total. And by the year 2016 it turns out that there was a joint, you gave in to pressure and you got access to a division by provinces. Well, a division where the province of Pontevedra is left in a terrible situation, 438 tons, of which we have to distribute between the accident and the driving; that is, 438 is half left, that is, it gives for two days. You know perfectly well what the situation is. Do you know that you told me a boss before you came here today? He said: "Well, if you eat, you're always going to put flowers, take the flowers and put them in a jar." He said to me, "Take the flowers and put them in a jar, and come and meet us and tell us if you're going to do anything to change the distribution system, we're starving." That's what he said to me: that he should come to meet us! and that the flowers that will be put in Parliament put them in a jar, but that he should come to meet us, that he should come to talk about the real problems, the problems that we have, Mrs. Quintana. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the problems they have are with the distribution system that you accept submittedly, and that you come here today to talk about millions. What you know how to do, a client's policy, with a distribution of millions, because you're for the only thing your Council has, to divide millions. No strategic policy has solved any structural problems that this country has. And in the face of that problem you have out there, you come here today to talk about these issues. Well, that's good. Look, do you think you can come here today to tell us that quotas since 2009 are in a fantastic situation, that the composition of the fishing fleet has only increased? When you know perfectly how many ships have broken off in the drift, in the Great Sun, in the smaller arts; well, it's awesome! And in the human issue it turns out that since 2016 it's increased by 1%, it doesn't talk about everything that's been lost until 2016, and then it comes here to take a little punch when everything that's lost has been tremendous. And he says that since 2015 permex for the first time began to increase. When you arrived at the Council in 2009, how many did you say would increase since 2009? Yes, Mrs. Quintana, the hemerotheque is what you have, which is there. Yes, Mrs. Quintana, promised in 2009 that it would increase the permex of the seafood on foot, that it would dignify the situation of the seafooders and that it would increase the permex. And it turns out that in 2015 it was the first time it got close, and now it's starting to grow timidly. And it turns out that 25% of discharges were increased and 5% of shellfish billing. What's going on, Mrs. Quintana? How can 25% increase downloads and only 5% increase billing? What's going on? What is the result of 25% of the downloads and 5% of the billing? And it turns out that you come here today to talk about the proposals to reinforce raw material, internationalization, identification, marketing... and don't you think that, with what's going on, you'd have to come here to talk about this invasion and flooding of the Greek market with the shellfish, it wasn't from Italy anymore and it turns out it's from Portugal now? It turns out you're coming here today and you're not talking about the problem of the garden and you're not talking about that with those inspections that are being done in the debuggers what you're putting -- which you already know -- it's the discovery that the Greek market is flooded with products from outside; that the Greek market is flooded with products from outside while you and your Councillory don't want to do anything at all. And we find ourselves with an absurdity, which is that having immeasurable conditions — not at the level of the Spanish State or at the level of Galicia, but at the level of the world level — it is inconceivable and unjustifiable that we do not want to do anything in order to have a self-sufficiency in the production of seafood seed; that the regeneration of seafood banks will again give the same data of recovered meters, but that these meters do not increase; that our market is flooded with products from outside and that our product is not reaching market quotas; that nothing is being done to make currently unproductive areas that continue to increase; that Galicia, with all that potential, has to resort annually to companies in the Spanish State, to the seeds of Portugal, to the seed of Italy and to that which is flooded with outside product. And that this enormous potential is not serving to increase the number of people who can live decently, with decent incomes, and who generate quality jobs. Counsellor, don't you think that this situation and the alarm that is being generated these days should be worth talking about today? How can you talk about marketing and improving the product when this situation is taking place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u49	...that's out there. So you're talking about promoting marketing in a market where our sector is losing weight, where there's an unfair distribution of TACs in quotas, where our sector is fading and where we're losing the bottom. Where there is a market invaded by foreign products in a context where the performance of its Council only served to preach to the decisions made in the Spanish State...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u51	...and in the European Union. Pray to decisions of scraps, TACs and none at all continuously. And where you, Counselor, since you've been an advisor, don't want to take on skills to defend the sector. And then you come and do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u53	...—Finished, president—a floral exhibition, and I repeat to you what moves me a pattern: take those flowers, put them in a vase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u55	...and then I focus on the real and structural problems that the sea sector has in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Toja Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u57	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. I hope for today's audience to come and bring you more up-to-date data than for the answer you gave me the other day in full, when I asked you about the situation of the seamen and you, thank you very much, gave me this book, which I thank you for, a book from 2004, 14 years ago. I hope that you for today's appearance manages more up-to-date data, because here up there and they took that train, fourteen years ago. [[Applause]] My God, where are those people going? Fourteen years ago, yes, Counselor. I'm telling you, maybe they're around with the AVE of Álvarez Helmets or their Galician Plan. They've been on that train for 14 years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u58	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u59	I understand you bother them, but please listen. I understand, I understand, I understand! I understand you're upset, but... by the way, I'm going to give it to the president so he can see that it's actually 2004. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u60	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u61	The book, I'm going to give it to you to check -- yes, yes -- that's 2004, and I'm telling you yes. Be careful, Mr. President, that book is tied up. Look at the counselor, who's been with her for 14 years. [[Applause]] You started talking today about the billing levels of 2017 and compared us to the period 2005-2008. I fear you must have made that comparison in current euros, because if you had made the constant euro comparison you would see that in 2005 it was 502,000; in 2006, 509; in 2007, 527. Far above the 508 you said here today. So I recommend that you please compare the data to constants, not currents, and so you'll see how different the situation is. As I was saying, I really hope he handles some more up-to-date data. Come talk to us today about your marketing proposals, I'm going to try to stick to these marketing data, precisely, although income, as you know, has two legs, price by amount. And the problem is, essentially, in the amount of what's sold and what's captured, and the chances of capture are low, and in this way we barely begin. The motto of his Fisheries Council is that less and more income is drowning in the sector. They're drowning him, leading him to a situation that is less and less people who can live from the sea. Do you know where I get this data? I collect data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, instead of numbers of people affiliated with the Sea Regime. Over the past few years, we've lost more than 4,000 people affiliated with the Special Sea Regime. It's true that in 2017 they increased a little, 136; to continue with the growth rate of 2017 it would take more than thirty years to recover the levels of 2008 because they lost, as I say, more than 4,000 people. We're far away from the levels you said. There are currently 3,797 seafood permits, far below the 2009 levels. So you'll understand when we tell you that today there are fewer people who can live from the sea. We're staying, too, without generational relief, you know, and you say you're worried. Well, I understand that it's not at least when there are, as you said, 4,400 vessels we haven't guaranteed their generational relief. Even there are people who form themselves and eventually they end up working on the ground, they don't even end up working on the sea. So sometimes, even, some case like some young man from the fence who starts to buy a boat and then finds himself unable to fish because he has zero quotas, precisely because he had no history. So you have to understand that we have fewer affiliated people, we have a huge problem of generational relief with more than 4,000 ships that have not guaranteed their continuity, therefore, it is a matter of concern. However, today I noticed a very different attitude to what I saw the other day, on February 19, when you went out in the middle saying you had a debt pending marketing. It seems to us that you do have a debt pending with the marketing. I noticed it today, as if there had been a terrible change from that February 19th to this day, when in a robbery of sincerity I confessed I had that debt pending. [[Applause]] We understand that yes, but we also tell you to calm down, because, look, in the key productivity indicators for the 2015-2020 Welsh Strategic Plan, it turns out that there is no commercialization in these indicators. You don't have to study it, you won't enter the exam. Be calm, she'll approve the same. So calm down, that's not going to come in. What you might think of is the execution of Program 723A, which, as you know and know, has a game for transformation and marketing, and it turns out that in the execution of that program in yellow there is the actual credit and green the credit executed. And you can see it's changing quite a bit. Between 2010 and 2014, it was not even 30%, the year that was most executed was the year 2016, but you can see here the 2016 budget compared to the other years. So you have a debt pending? Have it, Counselor, of course you do! With regard to production and marketing plans, which I have heard from you here, these are powerful tools for producer organisations to finance studies, for a project design, market study costs. Indeed, but it turns out that there are some producer organizations that tell us they don't ask for such help because they seem far-sighted, complicated, difficult. Man, yes, some work, perhaps, of advice and help as much as it could be done. It's just like asking the European Union, instead of a null execution that has a higher execution. And I'm asking you a question, because you were also going out on the middle of September 26 saying that I would pay the production plans before the end of 2017, and that I know you didn't pay them. The other day we asked a fishing committee and they said that they had not paid them, but that there were no smaller issues either! So, yes, it's all right, production plans, pay us, execute us, ask the European Union to also facilitate ways of... eliminate some bureaucracy. With regard to quality stamps. I've also heard her talk here about the importance of quality. You asked what quality is. I'll give you my version of the quality. The quality is that a customer is willing to pay one more euro for one product because it has guaranteed that quality. With the label "Rías fishing" that doesn't happen. Ask them away and ask them around. That seal, which began in 2008, which was made to him, turns out he was let to die. That seal was left dead and now the farces don't access the stamp, why? Because if the customer isn't willing to pay another euro, why are they going? And you know, you know the traceability, that just one of the operators of that is not certified is already missing the certification. And in any case, as I told you, because I think it's important -- even though I wanted to dedicate a few words to marketing, because that was the title of attendance -- income has two legs: price per quantity. And we have a very big problem in terms of quantity. The European Union's environmental criterion, as regards Article 17, of the Common Fisheries Policy, says that it must aim at the environmental and socio-economic criteria, but the social criterion is not sufficiently important. And there's a problem, because the social criterion means that fishing has to be a factor for population fixing, and Galicia has lost 85,000 people in recent years. And according to studies and projections for the future, Galicia will lose 230,000 people by 2030. So it has a fundamental factor in fishing as far as the social criterion is concerned. As far as the economic criterion is concerned, it is clear that fishing has to be an activity that is economically profitable, and speaking to shipowners we sometimes find ourselves that when they have an injury the same often have difficulty in paying for damage. Or when they want to make an investment, they have difficulties because activity doesn't generate enough income to just meet daily expenses. With regard to scientific reports. I didn't hear her talk about scientific reports, and in that interview, in which you were tremendously sincere, she also said, "It's not important to have the drivers in the maximum sustainable yield by 2020 if the fishing sector is lost." We agree, and one way is scientific reports. It is important to anticipate the European Union, to make scientific reports and, in this way, to demonstrate that the quadrants are in a position of maximum sustainable yield. And, by the way, I take advantage to ask for your support for the manifesto which made the Spanish Institute of Oceanography public, in which they denounce the precariousness and the evil that is happening. We understand it's a fundamental tool for the fisheries sector. I'll ask him another question, see if he can answer all of us. Why in Spain, depending on where you live, do you have any rights or other in fishing? And I'm telling you, for example, that I know you don't think it's important, but we do, because that's what the fence tells us, the 68 tons that have to search, compared to 6,000 for Andalusia. I ask him, because they answered that when there was a mouthpiece, he would review that criterion and then he could fish. There was a mouthful, he came in good condition, but it turns out he couldn't catch it. We're talking about 6,000 tons, 68 tons to Galicia. Why? Why is that? And also if we compare with Portugal, especially what just happened to Sardinia. The solution this three months can fish, but it turns out that 2/3 tonnes are available for Portugal and 1/3 for Spain. It turns out that from this third to the end it's 2,000 kilos per boat, 2,000 kilos for three months, it's 33 kilos per day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u63	'A second, please.' They go out 33 kilos a day at 50 cents, that's 16 euros a day. You'll tell me if with 16 euros a day a boat can survive, if you give it at least for fuel. And although it was possible through marketing that instead of 50 cents/day was 1 euro/day, instead of 16 euros we would be talking about 32 euros. So you tell me if we have or do not really have a problem in the quantities. You'll tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u65	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u66	Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Oh, yes, yes, of course. Thank you very much. Tell all spokespersons there's a second round where they're going to have the chance to expose their arguments again. I'm telling you not to go so fast. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They always happen, but good. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u67	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Quintana. See if you don't give me the cough during my exposure. As you know, we've just come to celebrate there's nothing, few days ago, the working woman's day, and this is the sector of the sea, directly and indirectly, where there are more and more women, where there are lots of women working in it, and traditionally there are already the nets, fishers, seafooders; women, in addition, more or less recent, although not so, but more and more women in the scientific field, in the administration, and if we talk about factories, there are thousands of women. These have been incorporated in the seams, the seams to the fleet, and many others far less numerous, such as my friend and shipmate Mar, who is going to work closely with mine, so we see that there is a massive incorporation of women into this sector, of which he has not spoken, although he has praised it, and he has also spoken of the women of the sea. And I follow up on Mrs. Toja's request that you be concerned about getting equal rights when you retire from women and marishes like men. Don't just say that you're equal, that you love women, that you've got a lot of friends and girlfriends, and that you're praising the seamstresses. I'm sure they'll wait for you to work to have the same retirement rights as their fellow seamen. Then there are also other women who go one step further, and they associate or create for themselves companies of all kinds: artisanal conservation, marine tourism; they get to have a certain mean of power, in the confrereries there were larger bosses, and that's what I want and I hope it's what you want. Because we believe that after what happened a few days ago, and seeing the absolute weight women have in all sectors, and in this increasingly, we would like women to also be able to reach these leadership positions, these representational positions being part of the marine culture, and we believe that it is a complaint that has become sufficiently clear and that they are absolutely underrepresented. You're a woman, besides, who always pretends to be on the side of the sector and to listen to the sector. You did an exhibition of data, data, more data and your lines, of all these good purposes and of these improvements of data from the Feijóo method, which we always get used to, so, I would also like you to hear a conversation that I'm transferring to a group of sailors who talk to one of the Galician streams, and see if you can interpret the meaning of your words. It's a real conversation, and it's also held after they've met each other, about the Farinha series, and after seeing Mr. Feijóo in Salvados talking about Martial Dorado and this case we have in Galicia about those boats that do other activities at sea. I tell you, textually, "Nothing..." --you know, sailors are very ironic, so we're going to have some irony in this Parliament -- "I think one of these days I'm going to look for a bunch of fattens, so I don't have to worry about whether there's fish or not, and I might have enough to pay the bills." The other one tells him, "You're right, besides, so you can put the engine you want, with the power you need and the big boat you want." He said, "Yes, it is." And another one says, "No fee for lighthouses, no shopkeepers, no appliances, no VlVs, no IRPFs, no maritime captainship, you don't have to go through." And another: "Yes, you did! But if you go, you make room for me too." And he laughed. Why do you think the mariners say these things, Counselor? Perhaps it has to do with the fact that, in addition to these more television events, we listened to you, and Mr. Feijóo less than a month ago -- and he repeats again today in this show the same -- to speak of the historic maxim that he made in Galicia of fish billing discharges. It refers to 0.36 cents per kilo of the said discharges, while Galicia imports 2 euros a kilo to sell it at 6 or 7, even to serve in schools or hospitals, do you mean that data? If there's so much fish in Galicia, because we don't have to bring fish outside, if we're beating records... And another thing that shocks us, and that shocks me specifically, is that we have a government that talks about a milestone in discharges and billing, but the fact that the fito doesn't serve to recover jobs or more than a thousand lost ships since 2009. You quoted this data using the Feijóo method. So it uses that, of course, you're such cracks that you've made half of the fall since 2009 have been reduced to half, but it doesn't mention that in 2016 only 5 ships in the Coruña and 2 in Lugo have been recovered. With the Feijó method, you have to use the data for everything, not only those that interest you in building false premises with that true data. And we don't use that method for the people of the sea to stay in the pocket any more than a euro in previous years, much less. You know what a mariner's salary is in 2009, and a mariner, and a mariner of the Great Sun, you know that? Well, a sailor of the Great Sun, on a boat that fishs well, can reach 1,800 euros, with the hardness of the Great Sun fishing, half. Uh, in the middle. One bass can be about 1,000 euros and a seamstress in the Galician stream over 600 euros, although you say after they win more than you do. But these are averages; they're actually not accurate, but that's what people in the sector move. A man of a trawler who has been in the sea for fourteen years, who has suffered loss of loved ones in the sea and severe shipwrecks, earns 24 euros a day. So, you know what's the worst? That man, not less than a month ago, saw how his mother-in-law after working and working, also between cans of cans, codified salt, spent the last days of his life in a hospital hall, but according to you, of course, we have to thank them because we are not like in Venezuela or Africa, or in poverty after a war, and those are the fishing data you want, that stopped the hecatomb, and we have some wonderful data. And that's why, because of these fantastic economic data, Mr. Feijóo raised his salary and raised his salary; just like the pensioners, as Rajoy says, then they have later lapsus of those that they give them so often, and everything is so bad, so bad, that there's no money for anything, that we are irresponsible, but to rescue highways and banks and put them in the pockets of companies, for that there's indeed money and there's everything, there's budget for everything. I hope you don't pass them like the king, that while they go from congress to congress, and from fair to culinary fair, and marketing, or if they go skiing, they don't see how the sea sector lives, the workers and those who are active or those who are retired, how it happens to our monarch and how it happens to many leaders of his party. See when we see that apart from the illegal pursuit of those who bring the Portuguese sailor, which above all was a great milestone, but of the Portuguese police, they make truly effective regulations so that they don't sell seafood or fish outside by making him pass like here legally, but in an unethical way. Consumers, indeed, Mrs Quintana, have the right to know what they eat, and sailors and producers to whom they are the ones who obtain the highest yield by the brand that belongs to them by justice. We see how in 2016 a court sentence condemned a company for using references to the Greek origin of the mexillon when it was not certified by the designation of origin of "Mexillon of Galicia." In spite of this, the Council continues to do nothing to prevent unfair competition and the irregular and fraudulent use of references to origin at the point of sale of the canned mexillon in Galicia. And that's how they continue to offer themselves mussels produced in Chile as Greeks without the Council doing anything. This situation is a problem for the marketing of our product, that marketing of what you're talking about, but also for the rights of consumers, who should be entitled to know and know whether the product they're consuming when they buy a can of mussels if they are canned in Galicia or manufactured in Galicia, but which is not a product of Galicia, and are deceived about their origin. Only with correct information will a consumer be able to tell freely if he consumes a foreign or German product. But look, this is, besides, we don't tell him, I don't tell him. Look, I'm going to show you an article now in March 2018 from El País. Look, he says, "As if the shellfish is really Galician." And look, Leolo, especially the part that talks about how the sector is so boiant, say or journalist Rodrigo Casteleiro García: "Until the 1980s a good part of the shellfish that was caught in Galicia was then used as a fertilizer in the orchards, people would lay socks, pillows, hundreds and even realize to compensate for the calcium deficit in the fields." It's hard to believe it, but Martín Piñeiro, the journalist of El Progreso who tells me this anecdote, he says: "Then there was almost no industrial fishing, the coves were full and the neighbors didn't get out of that kind. For an idea, in 2016 pulp imports exceeded 24,000 tonnes — imports, output from outside. This same year we also bought 376,926 tons of molluscs and 191,404 tons of crustaceans. The question, according to the Spanish fishing report, which is where this data comes from, is, how can the consumer identify the Galician seafood?For his label, perhaps?" And do you know what this journalist explains? That the label is a hieroglyphic; for it speaks of fishing zones, of IX A, of subarea VIII C, and that it is only possible to know the approximate source of the seafood that is bought are said from where the vessel is from, and it says that there is not even if there is the seal of "Ries fishing" — which, indeed, will be the label of "Ries fishing" that identifies the difference of sea products from artisanal fishing?— that there are companies such as Fresco and the Sea that offer more information. But Emilio Louro, a two partners, showed critical: "We if we put the concrete origin of the seafood and then the port, and sometimes even the boat, but the rest don't." But then, how, when we get to a restaurant or something, do we know that we consume the German product? I'd like you to answer us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u69	And even though he had more information to give, with regard to the labelling, which is fundamental for marketing, as said this journalist and a connexion from the Lower Rhône Congressman and a biology partner from the Noia Congressman — the highest producer of Berberecho — to distinguish the Greek Berberecho from the Portuguese — and let's not say the plum — it's almost like Gil Grissom, Jacques Cousteau and have the bakery of Álvaro Cunqueriro. So, you tell me, just like what we have to do with the Greek Berberecho is get out of the Mistress's creek and try to find out what the Berberecho is, because those who consume the Berberecho and the plume of Mistress we know how to distinguish them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u71	...but not the rest. What do you do with the marketing -- and many other things I'll tell you later in the replica -- so that the consumer has a record...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u72	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u73	...that he is, really, receiving a product and not a fraud, and to help the sector that is being cheated, and that, in addition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u75	...that economic data does not correspond, at all, to its reality. It's just like with pensioners and so many sectors, that the Feijóo method shocks reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. Then you'll have a new turn where you can continue with your arguments. Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning, Your Honor. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is, I want to begin my intervention by giving the lady's compliments. I want to congratulate your team, the Galician board, and I want to give you the welcome -- as she said, too, at the beginning of her speech -- to the people of the sea, because really if you bring those positive data here today, it's because of the effort that all people who participate directly and indirectly linked to the sea sector have also made. So, fortunately, they're getting more and more, and then -- in addition to the data you presented here today -- the truth is, we're going along the right path and you're going back to the trend. As the counsellor said, he was brought back to the trend. Of course, as we hear in the advisor's presence, that when the administration is the sector is, scientists work hand in hand, things work and things go well. In 2009, this advisor put a series of challenges -- he was in a very different situation, as he said in his speech, as well -- not simple challenges with modest expectations, but very hard to imagine. Today, in 2018, the data speak for themselves. We're talking about objective data, positive data, which, as we hear in the various interventions, completely confuses the opposition, because you come out here and you don't know what to say, you can't talk about this data and you can't refute these arguments. Positive data expose the opposition, but they're reality, and they're data from Galicia because they compare here with other autonomous communities, and they compare with other countries, but they're data from Galicia, we have to be proud of this data from the sea sector in Galicia. You demand and ask for data, ask for reports. As soon as the leaders of the Board come to the committees or even the councillor himself, giving data and reporting is no use to them either, they're only used as an excuse to criticize and remove other related issues, which sometimes have nothing to do with the sea. If it's bad data, it's all the fault of the board, they're already questioning quickly and asking questions. If they're good data, you always look for hundreds of variables to try to justify that a good data has nothing to do with the Welsh Administration. So we here — as we know how the rhythm of opposition goes and how they are not able to value and, in addition, justify a good data for a good job — are already used to what you are always saying and using the same argument. We felt to tell you that all the Greeks know that when there is effort, when there is work, when there is a project -- because the counselor himself reported the objectives in 2009 and the results today, we were also lucky that this advisor was the one who was in front of the Council of the Sea -- ends up having fruit in difficult times and in moments of much effort, and ends up having fruit, and with external conditions, such as European legislation or how it could be the social change itself with technology and new forms of consumption, new demands in consumers. I want to remind you here that last Friday in the 8th Commission the spokesman of the Socialist Party spoke of his many fears, that the Socialist Party was always with his fears; of course, we have nothing but to say that it is true. It is very clear that you are stubborn and with occurrences themselves and never with real commitment, never with real commitment, only committed to yourself. Mrs. Toja saw a theater here today, I don't know, read the book, didn't she read the book? He despised it because it was written in 2004. Now books have fashions, they have no fashions. It seemed to me, the truth, rather regrettable, and then he asked the president to take it, but he didn't leave it to him. I didn't understand anything. Then, if you can, I can tell you what you mean by that, because I would also like to know. [[Applause]] We know perfectly well that you, the socialists, have also talked about fashions, and books, which are always in fashion, and that they are very much of yours, they are very much of yours, and that they talk about the difficulty of accessing help, asking for help. Well, we know that yes, of course, you have your way of working for yourself, only for you, that this is the easiest thing for socialists themselves; so, Mrs. Toja, I don't know if you come here bragging about Portugal or Andalusia, but this positive data is from Galicia. As for the Galego Nationalist Block, I believe that you should look forward to it, to realise — as the advisor said — that Galicia is a reference, that it is a self-referred community in Spain, referring to the European Union, and therefore should feel proud of that, of the sector itself, not proud of the Government, but proud of that, that we have positive data, that we can and will know how to adapt to the current social reality and that we can draw forward. So, I think you have to admit that you have to make that effort, because you're never going to be here, and you're here to accuse, and you're not even to criticize. I noticed, Mrs. Prado, today in her speech very direct accusations, genuine fallacies against Mrs. Quintana, and I think that came out of all the tone. They recognize that they are disturbed by positive data. As I said, she's off, she's gone out here with positive data, saying, well, I don't know what I'm going to say, so I'm directly accused and I've already chosen the easiest way. I think you have a lot of friends, Mrs Prado, who give you advice, he also said it in health intervention and fishing intervention, but I think you should also recognize that work from the administration in collaboration with the sector is also important, and that is why we have this positive data today. As for Mrs. Santos' intervention, I hope that when I fix her inner laxity, she can also have constructive speeches here. And it's true, because they have a very suitable name for this sector, the name "Marea", which I don't know if it's good for you or not, but we believe that criticism is very good for them inside and out; criticism is good for them inside and out because, in addition, they make the fan run both inside and outside. Because here you spoke and started reading extracts and accounts of other things. All right, but we like it more, and we think Galicia deserves constructive speeches, which is what we want to do here. I think that, in addition, if the advisor is coming here on his own request it is because he has something to explain. And he also made a very clear storyteller since 2009 about what he did, what he did, what the results are and what the lines of the future are. I think the Government can't ask for more than that commitment. And I think, in addition, by the Sea Council, it's perfectly achieved. Turning back to Mrs Quintana's appearance and to all that we, the People's Parliamentary Group itself, can contribute from this Parliament, to what we can offer, it must be said that, at least, we are up to making proposals and try to continue on this path. We'll have to keep working on this line, the data backs it up. And we also presented ourselves to the last elections with a very busy program, a very realistic program. Alberto Núñez Feijóo's project team, where Counsellor Rosa Quintana was also included, has contributed a number of proposals to address this new legislation. With that program that we presented to the elections we obtained in the polls the majority support of the Greeks and the Greeks. So we have that commitment and we're going to keep working on that line, because that's our guarantee and that's our commitment. The People's Party is much more constructive — as I have already told Mrs. Santos — than other parties. And that's what the Greeks and the Greeks know, which are the ones who decide afterwards. Stop accusing us of lack of dialogue and political filibusterism, stop accusing us of it. Because, in addition, I have to set here the example of the fact that, in the near future — and I tell the rest of the honourable Members — we are going to bring a proposal, at the request of a federation — the Foundation for Sustainable and Social Minimum Economic Performance — but supported by all the groups, to go together and join hands with Europe on the subject of discards, which is a very important issue. There we have to be together. Because often you tell us if we're here because we think of ourselves... No, no, that's just because we've come here to do politics, but there's a lot of things we need to be united in. And this is an example, this is an example where we don't have to politicize, just like the subject of equality. We have to go together and we have to do things together when we're always thinking about general interests. [[Murmurs.]] I say one thing... yes, I say it like that, so they understand it perfectly, because then they get here, they put the fan and they talk about issues that don't have to do with the story. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I say one thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, when it comes to ensuring the activity of the sea, employment, when it comes to improving marketing data, this advisor, who is from the People's Party, is with the sea sector and thinks of a single interest, which is Galicia, which is the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And you won't benefit the BNG, the Marea, the Socialist Party or the People's Party. Galicia and the Galicians and the Galicians who live from the sea, who want to live from the sea, are the interests of Mrs. Rosa Quintana. I say of the speeches of the opposition spokespersons who, as Mrs. Quintana now has a turn, have data on the perfectly rebutable and rebuttable barbarities that we could hear here. She'll have her replica turn, too. And I say -- to finish it -- that commitment and effort give results, that increase employment and that this can, in addition, give way to a generational relief. When the sea sector is attractive, when the sea sector has a future, when the sea sector can be a line of work for the future, it's when the generational relief is guaranteed. So, for my part, this turn is nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. He's got his retort on Mrs. Mar's advisor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, thank you very much for your words. But I regrettably doubted much of what you said and asked about going together with the sector to defend the interests of the sector in Brussels. And I'll tell you why. In 2009, when we arrived at the Government, we had a very important task, which was to bring to Brussels the proposal of Galicia, of what we wanted and of what we hoped was the new common fisheries policy. At that point, we found ourselves in the office, when we arrived, with a document that had three sheets. We worked, made a proposal and brought it to the Galician Fisheries Council. And I am very proud of the work that the Galician Fisheries Council has done, because, in a council where absolutely all the links of the sea-industry chain are represented, everyone understood it was good to take a unanimous stance to Brussels. And they all gave up some of their expectations to get the best for everyone. That document then moved to Parliament, and we tried to deal with all the groups a unique position of Galicia. The Socialist Party has been admitted absolutely all the observations it has made, and the Galician Nationalist Block will all be accepted except one, which had to do with aquaculture. Well, the result of the vote, when this was submitted to Parliament's approval, I have to tell you that it was PSOE's abstention, the vote against the Block and the sole support of the People's Party. That's the way some parties have to understand what the defence of the interests of our marine-fishing sector in Brussels is. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado, you accuse me of coming here today to talk about something that doesn't interest the sector. And I, unfortunately, have to disagree with you. I come here to talk about something that is extremely important and necessary for the sector, which has to do with improving the marketing of our products. You say it's an extemporaneous appearance, that I can come here at any time. And I'm telling you that no other thing, but honesty I've got enough. And discretion and responsibility, too. I don't like lies. And, as Mrs. Egerique said, mine has always been defending the sea sector, and that's why I've been working in different jobs for him for thirty years. You can find yourself in the hemerotheques. Mrs. Toja said that, in a heart attack, I said the other day that we still had a pending job, that was the improvement in marketing. If you're going to any statement I've made in public since 2009, or even before, it seems to me that I don't take away an apex of that I said. Now, the important thing to defend the fishing sector is to plan for us, and we have to start doing the jobs where we have to start doing them. When I arrived in 2009, it was obvious that I had something more important to do, which was to get fishing opportunities for my sector. Little could do by improving the marketing if we didn't have fishing opportunities. And I am very grateful when we are now talking about the fact that in the new common fisheries policy we have to put on the same level the three aspects: social, environmental and economic. And you know why this is collected in the common fisheries policy? Because Galicia defended him, we defend the need for the three aspects to be equal in terms of terms Galicia, Mrs Prado! [[Applause]] Yes, and to me, when they talk to me about scientists, it's obvious... because I don't know how to work differently. I've already exposed him here a thousand times. When we go to Brussels to believe the situation of our wheelchairs, we take advantage of scientific studies, and we've always seen it. That's why I just didn't understand the data you gave me. But do you guys not remember...? I told them today in my speech that, to know where we want to go in the future, it's good to look where we're going, where we're going and where we want to go. In 2005 to 2009, 55% of fishing opportunities were lost. Was the sector drowned? Yes, at that moment. Can it be better today? Of course, and on that line we're working. But today we're at least 80% better, because today we're recovering 80% of fishing opportunities from 2009. Yes, Mrs. Prado! Look, I don't make them up. The data are published in the Journal of the European Communities when we are given the distribution of TACs and quotas in December. The data I bring here are the data that brings up the sector itself when it comes to the daily auctions it makes on the different distances. The data I bring here is not any random method that you might think, is the data that gives us the sector itself. But I'm already used to, as Mrs. Egerique said, that you brought anything here. They're worth everything. In the siege they keep saying that I sold myself to the pressure of not knowing who and that our sector today has less fishing opportunities. About 40% more! About 40% went up the siege dumps in Galicia, Galicia! Today the resources that I used to search out can fish our fleet when they arrive in Galicia, with which we have achieved two things: one, to avoid spending on the sector in the displacements it has to do out of its house; and two, that that added value that is generated in the first sale on the farthest stays in Galicia and not in the Basque Country or in Cantabria, as it has so far been. [[Applause]] But to you, as it gives you the same thing to say that contrary to it... I remember, when I came to defend the assumptions, in the appearance that was made in the month of October, that I was told in that defense of the appearance that now to the Greek fishing sector, I didn't make it up to you to go fishing outside. But what do we want? Work here, work outside...? I sold myself to the Basques, but it turns out we now have more fishing opportunities. Truly, ladies and gentlemen, I, as much as I like, am not able to understand them. I'm just coming here and telling them that today the Welsh fishing sector is better than it was in 2009 and that today we have some different future challenges than we had in 2009. Of course, I'm accused, and I think it was a riot the other day, because I gave Mrs. Toja a book that says it's from 2004. Look at you! What a thing! I've been studying a lot older books, but, well, it's all right. I gave it only with an objective, Mrs. Toja. That book is made by a sociologist who collected in personal interviews what the seafarers themselves understood to have subjected their process of change. To understand the history of shellfish today it is necessary to know where we left from. And that book was made in 2004, of course, but it starts from the professionalization process that we started in 1991. And, of course, here I am told to defend the woman's role in fishing. Well, you're coming to the club. It's just that I've been doing it since I got to the Council. It's just that it cost me a lot of trouble to defend the role of women in the world of the sea, of course it cost me a lot of disgust! And help from the opposition groups I had very little, because I got all the maricadores off the street in the year 2000 to prevent the ladies from contributing to Social Security. And when I got them to contribute to Social Security, do you know what was asked? [[Applause]] That they paid for hours; that is, they had a cost added to their economic performance and yet, when they retired, they didn't get a minimum income to get a pension. Because you imagine what you could expect to contribute for hours. But, well, I'm used to saying figures and numbers, which nobody understands! They say I'm not betting and that the sector doesn't bet on the different quality brand "PescadeRías." Mrs. Toja, since 2009, certified products with this brand have risen by 2,400%. Is it little? Well, maybe so, but we just want them to keep going up. Of course, with its quality concept, the truth is that I, who have made fisheries products technology, is the first time I hear a quality definition that refers to price. You say quality is what makes the consumer pay another euro for one product. It's the first time I've heard this definition of quality, but, well, it's worth it to me. I've heard a lot of things here too, like we only have 64 tons of mouthpieces. Yeah, but why don't they say we have 97% chance of the jury in Area 9? Why don't they say we have 85% fishing opportunities in the Gran Sol? It's that all that positive data wants us to hide, and they want to transfer to the sector an image of a dead Galicia, a flashing Galicia. No, the sector knows it's not, and the sector's betting on making new boats, the sector's betting on improving the quality of life on those ships. And on that way we're going to accompany them. Today we're talking about improvement in marketing, and here I am accused of coming product from outside. Well, of course it is! It is that we have 45% of the processing companies from all over Spain, and that is that we have to bring fish from anywhere in the world. And we have to know how to give that added value here in Galicia and feel proud of it. We defend in Brussels that we are the Greeks to go fishing anywhere in the world, bring the fish to Galicia, transform it into Galicia and get the gross added value of our products to be twenty-five times higher than the average of the European Union's fishery products. And I'm proud of that, of course! [[Applause]] And I think that's enough? No, and that's why I want to keep working, and I want to keep getting better at betting for marketing. We're told it's a historic milestone that the Portuguese police had come here last week. Well, look, no, in the last four years, the Galician Coast Guard Service, assisted by the support unit of the Autonomic Police, has already committed about 18 tons of mollusk coming from Portugal. We are working against theft, whether theft is practiced directly on the beaches by drawing a product in an irregular way or by furtismo which is practised by selling products in an inappropriate way in Galicia. But if you saw that news in the media, it was for a joint action between the Portuguese police, the Welsh police and other autonomous communities, such as the Basque Country and the Cantabria. And I want to remind you that I was proud when our own sector said here that maybe fraud is because Portugal has not yet enabled a telematic system of traceability of products as we have in Galicia, where the traceability we have, in a telematic way, is much more difficult to contribute to fraud. And of course, I've always said it -- I said it in 2009, and I'll say it today, and I'll keep saying it -- of course I understand that Galicia has to come from outside. We are not able to produce all the fish that is consumed in Galicia, Spain or throughout the European Union. What we need is that the consumer is able to differentiate the product from its origin. And what is German is sold as Greek and what is not Greek is sold as non-Greek, and in the fight against this fraud we are. You referred to a record sanctioning a cannery factory that was fraudulently commercializing mexillon. There's a lot of files open to all those companies that work irregularly. I'm not going to go into other considerations, but if I tell you that in the matter of fraud, everything that is sold as a Welshman without being a German will have an enemy in us. And they said a lot more, I even heard that there were some producer organizations that didn't ask for help because it was overwhelming for administrative processing. Yes, look, I don't know which producer organization it refers to, because all those who exist have applied for help, and it was the first in the Galician community to process those aids and the first in paying for these help. And I've already told you: more than a million euros for aid and improvements in the marketing of producer organisations. I'm surprised this news that you give me that they don't ask for help because it's overwhelming to cover the files. Because even some producer organisations have created new ones, even though they already had another form of association, to be able to access these aids coming from the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. It is quite true that administrative processing is overwhelming, but it is no less true that they come from the Community regulation itself and that the rules of the State and the Autonomous Community also make it increasingly difficult to process the files, because we have to set barriers to avoiding fraud. And that's unique and exclusively what's being done. But the sector knows perfectly well that within the Council are the technicians who help us to clarify all the doubts they have and to cover the files as correctly as possible so that we don't have any decertifications like those that came to us in the period 2005-2009. Unfortunately, in 2009, I had to ask a lot of people, those who were given help, who had returned the money because it was wrong to provide help. And the truth is, I'd rather say "no" before starting to tell them after they have to pay us the money. Mrs. Santos, as always, refers to the girl. And I'm glad you're referring to the girl. And ask me what we're doing for Girl Berbecue. Well, look, I'm very proud of what we're doing in collaboration with the sector and with scientists in the case of the Berbecho de Noia. The sector itself, in collaboration with geneticists at the University of Santiago de Compostela are doing a study funded by the Galician Union and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund to make the genetic qualification of our Berbecue, which actually allows, from the molecular study of the genetic structure of the Berbecue, to differentiate that product from any other product that comes from anywhere else. And, on the other hand, we're also working with the Confrería de Noia sector in making the quality brand "Berkecho de Noia." I think they're two elements to put into value, I think they're two important elements. And, above all, I believe that these are two elements that perfectly exemplify the work together between the sector, administration and scientists, which is how we should work. And with regard to the retirement of seamstresses and the possibility of increasing the number of women working in the sea, because there they will always find my hand stretched out. It's been my line of work since I got to the Council. I'm proud of all those women who were able, at a difficult time, to take a step forward and present themselves to the elections of confrereries. Today we have 14 major sponsors, we have 20 percent of women who represent the General Council of the Galaga Federation of Brotherhood, and we have more than 28 Vice Patrons. I think it's a walking path and it must continue to mark future steps for the new generations to be incorporated. As for the fact that it's necessary for young people to continue to bet on fishing, since then that's our line of work. I can only ask them for help in this case: if we really want youth to bet on defending this economic activity, they don't transfer such a negative image of our sector, because it's not true. The industry image today is much better than you're telling them. And those who really work in the sector know that. And about the lack of illusion with which we find ourselves when we reach the Government in 2009 today, I have to say that we don't lack illusion, both in the sector and in myself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u80	Thank you very much, Counselor. We opened a round of double government clarifications. Mrs Prado Cores has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u81	It would be good if you did not confuse, Madam Counsellor, positive data with demagogy and even with lies. Of course, BNG doesn't want to be nobody's champions here, but, as far as we can, we defend as much or as any other part of the sea, because we consider it to be strategic for our country. And we have put measures on the table, we have brought measures to this Parliament, in defence of the sea sector and, above all, to have instruments to defend it. What we've always found is the wall of the People's Party, the Government of Wales and the Fisheries Council with you in front of you, Mrs. Quintana. Because you don't want to have instruments to defend the sea, you want to come here to make botafume and seem to do what you do. He doesn't want to have instruments so he doesn't seem to depend on you, and then he hides behind the Ministry, behind the Government of Madrid or behind Europe, because that seems to be the case with you. Come here with a budget and share some help, and you don't want to shorten any of the structural problems that the sector has because that's how you're comfortable. And she's also a great expert in introducing herself here as if she had just arrived. And you've been in charge of counseling for nine years! You can't come here as if it were a novelty. And you just said things here like you have to start with the things you can start with, nine years later. She lacks courage, Mrs. Quintana! Nine years later you can't say that you have to start with things and that the main thing was to get fishing opportunities. Because you failed sharply, because you didn't get fishing opportunities for this country, you couldn't! And as much as you're seen as a lizard you can't come here to say you've got better fishing chances, because it's a lie, it's a lie! No sector is better than there is... Does it bother you to dress like a lizard? [[Murmurs.]] Is it so sin? Oh, my God, I'll go and confess! Stop! [[Murmurs.]] Hands up! Stop! [[Murmurs.]] Oh, my God! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u82	Continue, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u83	Sorry, it was a colloquial way, I didn't mean to offend her, it was a colloquial way of talking. As far as I'm concerned, since 2009 it's not true that anything is better, Mrs. Quintana. [[Murmurs.]] I ask him to make the reports that look at the matter. Starting with the mouth question, you know that Andalusia has given you the fishing capacity of the mouth. For Galicia there was still not 2%, but 1.14%. You know that artisanal fishing has become subject to quotas, when it is a barbarity. And you accepted that question. You know that, on the trawler, since you're a counselor, it's gone from 98 to 43 boats, which from the Great Sun have dissipated 30 ships. How can you say here that the capacity of the fleet has been improved! But, for God's sake, Mrs. Quintana, these things can't be said here in Parliament! You can't come here to say these things! You can't! It should be sin, that should be sin and not be able to be said here in Parliament. So one thing is demagogy and another is reality. I know that data, so dry, can you come up and say we're better at downloads and billing. Value!, indeed, from 2016 to 2017 increased the downloads by 12%; and invoicing only 1.36%. With which you should come here for a reflection: how can you increase the 12% downloads and the invoicing only 1.36%? Why, Mrs. Quintana? Because last year there was a horse that even sank the ships. And how much is the horse, Mrs. Quintana? How much is the horse worth?Oh, my God! And because last year, 2017, it was a meteorologically good year. That means you can go out more to sea. And if, instead of being good — for example, in the month of December, which is when more billing is done, it was bad, because it turns out that it already sinks the statistics. And that's not for you to come here over and over, or Mr. Nuñez Fexóo, and go around saying you're a fantastic year. It's to be a little more prudent. And you should also explain how it is possible that the fleet of the sardine is tied up for five months and that in Portugal they pay each sailor EUR 960 or EUR 15,000 a month to each ship; and that it turns out that the Greek sailors don't cover a dog, they don't cover anything, and you don't worry, and that the galley ships are only exempt from the quota of Social Security and they don't cover by boat. Does it seem to you that this is not an aggravation and that they are on equal terms? Those are the things you should come here to explain. And I see that you don't want to get into the garden, that you don't care that the fleet of the garden in Pontevedra province only has the capacity to go to the Cantabria for two days. I see you don't want to dedicate to him half a line. I suppose now, when I don't have a replica shift, he'll say something so that I can't answer him. But you didn't answer me, you told the people who are there discussing each other that you're going to spend the money on the Cantabrian so as not to continue losing historic rights or what you're going to do. But tell them something, Counselor. And I didn't say that the problem of marine inspections is one of illegalities and so on. I told him to point out — if he wasn't — that the market is invaded by foreign products. And in view of that, you should accept some of the proposals and act so that the Greek product does not continue to disappear from the markets and is reduced to the slightest expression. I told you that, Counselor, I didn't talk to you about illegality issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u85	I told him to point out that the Greek market was flooded. And the BNG brought here more than one proposal for this, and, above all, the maximum concern: distribution criteria, TACs and a different model that benefits the German sector, a completely different model of distribution. You can't come here today saying that you have to go to a different marketing when we're running out of resources. If I had time, we'd talk about the dust farm plan -- this year practically there's no dust -- we'd talk about what the situation in the sector really is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u87	...that doesn't see any improvement in their income or their life skills. And in front of that, Counselor, come here to talk about the real situation of the sector, not about flowering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Toja Suárez has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. You have just offended them tremendously with the words that Mrs. Prado said when she was dressed as a lagarter, and instead, she did not offend them at all, I did not hear them or even bother them, that the Counsellor had said that they had been taken out by the seamstresses. I don't think weeders can go out alone, nobody needs to get them out. [[Applause]] You don't have to get them out! [[Applause]] If they defend the role of the woman, they should understand that the seamstresses, the women, have the ability to go out alone. [[Applause]] They don't need anyone to take them out. Counselor, you should correct that. I should rectify it, because it's ugly. And much more coming from a woman. It's so ugly! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, that's posture with equality. Just like when Mrs. Egerique comes out here saying, "we don't know," "we don't understand," "we're not able." Home, Mrs. Egerique, a little respect when you get out here! Because what we understand is constant prices and current prices. If you'd done the accounts here as if you had to, using the constant prices, the accounts wouldn't match them, nor would you have come here talking about those wonderful results when we're on the same levels as in 2007 instead of billing. But you, really, Counselor, are you so satisfied? Is everything really going so well? Because, then, tell me what happened in this interview. I remember this character from that movie who said, "The same thing I say to "a" that I say "b". One thing like that said, "I'm telling you the same thing." Remind me of that. Yes, yes, yes!, depending on the moment, you say one thing or another. [[Murmurs.]] You just told us here that you're very satisfied and... look, you just said here that you're very satisfied with the results -- yes, yes, Counselor -- and instead here you tell us that you have a debt pending. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Quintana Carballo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Let's get this straight and keep the same line, always the same. With regard to increasing downloads and not increasing revenue, what happens is that we increase costs but do not increase income. And so we're giving the people of the sea a greater workload, but we're not able to help them generate enough income to cover the costs of that increase in the workload. Let's see if we're clear, that's not the same. And I also ask you, who talked here about producer organizations, if you paid that amount. Are those amounts paid? Are you sure? They're paid. All right, less than a month ago, or less than a few weeks ago, they weren't paid. And I'm going to tell you the same thing about the executions of program 723A. Maybe that has enough to do with your outstanding debt as well. In yellow, what can be done; and, in green, what has been done. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez, from the platform of speakers, shows a chart.]] Look, there's a big difference between the two things. And see if you can explain it to me from the sardine. I mean, 33 kilos a day for 50 cents, 16 euros a day. You tell me if with 16 euros/day a boat can generate enough income just for fuel. And tell me, if you today — telling us about marketing — can go up from 50 cents to 1 euro — that we would go from 16 euros to 33 euros — if it would be enough to generate income simply, I mean, for fuel. As for quality, of what you said about the label of laughter, I think quality, in a capitalist system, is defined by the price; if not, explain to me what happens, for example, with the BMWs. I think it's defined by the price. Yes, yes, I understand that. Look, to finish, I've got...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u90	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u91	Finally, I would like to speak again about the importance of the social factor and the economic factor with regard to fisheries as regards the fixing of the population. They've lost 85,000 people in Galicia in recent years. Yes, since 2008, 85,000 people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Fishing has a fundamental role, which is population fixing, rural population fixing. We're in the rural legislating. Well, there you are, because I haven't noticed many changes — which I live in rural areas — in rural legislation. Yes, I see they're coming around for a walk, but living doesn't stay. So if we're in rural legislation and if we lose so many people, because I think fishing should contribute to that factor, as a stabilization factor for the population. Finally, I'm going to say a few words that a Member of yours has said. I agree 100 percent with him. His deputy said, "You have to stop reading and get to work." And I think that's what they have to do, stop reading and get to work, get to run budgets, get to try to get more amounts than fishing. Because income has two legs: price and amount. There's a lot of money going on, and as much as you can get up the price, if you don't get enough, you won't be able to get the sector out of this situation, which is drowning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. Mrs Santos Queiruga has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Quintana, how will we not be, or will I not be, proud of the sea sector if my family has lived all the life of the sea sector and lives mostly of the sea sector! It's just an obvious thing. It's an obvious and immense pride. That is why this honourable Member is very concerned about the sector and knows the sector at first hand. Besides, I'm lucky to come from one of the state's most leading research institutes in Europe and the most leading in the Atlantic Strip — data from international magazines, that is, I can't even feel or corporateism. The sector itself, in fact, is not self-satisfying, what you're unhappy with, what you say to TVG. If not, how can you explain that the sister's confrerery denounced the Council to compensate for that mismanagement of the Intemar? You resorted to the TSX, the TSX gave the industry the reason, they went back to the Supreme, and now it turns out that they have to compensate in the end, they have to compensate! And the excuses aren't valid when then that's the reality. The Greeks — I want to tell you — do not fish panga, or any part of the molluscs and crustaceans that come from outside. And personally I am concerned about that, because to me what I am concerned about is what seamen and seafarers are fishing for. That is, in fact, I don't like it coming from outside when the price of the product we have here is lower, when the product here goes at ridiculous prices. Of course I'm worried about tons and tons coming from outside! And you should worry too. It's very good that I've managed to get the maricadores to turn around. Well, people know when to go out and not go out. But that, of course, is not going to be a criticism. And that they also earn what they have to earn. It's not only that they often do, but that they earn decently and have decent pensions. Because you have more people than to satisfy your actions than sailors and sailors, that's the big problem. And that's what makes us best different from certain groups about the management of the People's Party, which thinks more about multinationals. Because then we don't have the vocation to go to the board of directors and we don't want any of these things that happen to the People's Party. The recovery will be real when you see it in people's pockets, that's when you're going to see the recovery. Because, like pensioners, sailors and seafarers, they can count. It's the problem they have as a government, they can tell. And if everything goes so well, why would there be any confusion with economic problems that have no surplus? And, in fact, that's why we... of course we are constructive, Mrs. Egerique! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In which commission are you when we bet on research, on recovery of laughter, on healing of laughter, always positive? In fact, we even support the People's Group in pursuing drone robbery. We also remind them that it was a better idea for them to put drones in Genoa. Because when they talk about our grief... you've got read. They have a mess, a serious mess, with their ex-secretaries of organization, with Mr. Crespo, with his former manager, Mr. Piñeiro, with his treasurers. They've got a mess of shit. It would be good if all that was stolen — especially the people already accused, or sadly famous, of their ranks — had been returned so that they had money for the productive sectors and social services. That's the reality. That's why we're worried about it and it's absolutely up to us. And that's why we're talking about that you, instead of putting solutions to the causes and the problems that the sector has, what they do is they drown more sailors and sailors. They're just pretending they've receded thousands of square meters of areas for the shellfish. Don't fool anyone, don't fool anyone! Regeneration tasks have been performed. You can say that you reconstituted them when they stop dumping waste into them. That way, the laughs are rekindled and the laughs are recuperated. What's the point of adding sand or plowing seafood banks for yourself if you don't stop throwing undeclared water on them — as we saw a few days ago in Boiro, which has very good seafood and often the confrries don't even have to regenerate because they don't have seeds later to be able to have shellfish to collect? This is what the sector needs funds for. That is why I hope, and we hope from our group — which is why we care so much about the debts of the People's Party charged — that we have funds and that we have the funds sector and the necessary help not only for those currently living in the sector, but for the future, for the young people who want to live in the sector and have that illusion and the assurance that they will be able to survive and have dignity by working in the sector. In Muros there is a plum caught in the area where there is today a park of salmon chalets, a cage that occupies not only the shellfish but also the smaller arts. It's interesting that what they don't want in certain countries in Europe is brought here. Also all these marketing improvements, food processing, electronic auctions, investments in factories, which we fully agree with, what will they be worth? Will they really be worth what it has to be or will it be like the rental aids they used to speculate and to help the large holding companies that group a lot of floors, banks, etc., or to raise your salary?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u95	Because then it happens like the pensioners, like the pensioners -- what we can tell. And, finally, I'm telling you, you can't cover up the recovery of the production of rivers with seawalks and flowers, with the absence of an effective purification of faecal waters. And then we'd also like to ask him what he thinks about the dangers like the Bull Mine, what he has to say about it. Yes, because it affects you directly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then don't let him pass like the Prestige and the "plastyline threads."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u97	Just like it wasn't a Corcoesto danger, Touro mine isn't a danger, Castor project wasn't a danger, etc. And then in these things, which have nothing to do with the sector, according to Egerique, and which also directly affects the jobs, we find ourselves after the mining...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u99	...are the problems of the PP: "A Canadian company denounces that an intermediary has requested a bite of 1.5 million for Feijóo and senior positions of the Board. The Canadian mining company Edgewater made this accusation to a lawsuit..." [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga, from the rostrum of speakers, shows a role]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos, for a minute and a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u101	This is what it has to do with the sea sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u102	Thank you very much for your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u103	...and with his management and his party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u105	This is reality and what we have to do as opposition here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u107	Well, thank you President. I got up optimistic by making a speech and trying to be a little more constructive, but I see that, as Mrs. Quintana says, the truth is that that's not going to be possible. She has much more experience than I do and, from what I see today and from the interventions I came from my fellow hemicycles, the truth is that this is quite sad. Mrs. Prado, I insist that I notice you very vehemently today. I think it's because the data and things are going well. The truth is, I sincerely believe that in this field, in the report and in the data that Mrs Quintana has presented today, we should all be satisfied and, at least, have some data and some positive gesture in thanks also to the sector itself and all the efforts she has made to make today's data this way. There's a commitment from the board and, therefore, there's help. If there's any help, it's good, because since the administration it's supporting the sector. As for Mrs. Toja, I also believe, Mrs. Toja, that you have the ability to make your intervention by yourself. But if there are phrases of companions that raise a applause, welcome. But I believe that you have the capacity and, in addition, sufficient knowledge to speak about the sea sector, which is the important thing at this moment and this appearance. Since you are also important to the constant euro, because I will tell you that, even at the price of 2009, our billing would be higher than that of 2005 now. So you passed the data like this, as above, but it's that data is what they are, and reality is what it is. So I'm also going to tell you that, if you say we have to be consistent with the argument, I think socialists are not the most appropriate ones to talk about this, because they are able to say and even vote one thing and against it on the same day and in the same autonomous community. So I think coherence has to be better seen by the Socialist Party and not teach us lessons. Because if we have a coherent speech, we have a joint work and we are going on the same line by contributing from the People's Parliamentary Group, when we think we have to make it, the initiatives to the Galician Union, and also, on the other hand, the Galician Union guiding the work with the experience they have — especially in this field. Mrs. Santos, we do not doubt your professional trajectory. But, of course, when you enter this Chamber, you seem to lose a bit of that knowledge and these papers. Here you are talking about the dizzy politics, which is what you're going to do, and, I don't know, it seems to be a press conference here because you can't give it to other press rooms in this Parliament. So, you get to talk here about everything you want, without making a real pretend about what it has to be, that I say it's the constructive speeches. It is better to be in reality and not in their worlds, often comical, because it also puts here slandering always on top of the People's Party to express whatever subject we can debate in this Parliament. What this council did was adapt to the times, what this council did — today Mrs. Quintana said clearly in her appearance — was adapt to the times from a technological, industrial and commercial point of view. Because the image that Galicia projects outside is very important for the future as well. And the image of Galicia today is, in addition, very different from that of eight years ago. It's linked to rigor, it's linked to progress, it's linked to sustainability. And that will ensure greater respect and greater demand for our products, and will therefore also ensure the possibility and attractiveness for new generations and ensure the generational relief. The transformation of companies, from the marketing chain, everything needed a certain modernisation. And, therefore, they've always been in the hands of the Administration, thus improving competitiveness and improving all this data today. All this, in addition, being faithful to a model that guarantees a future. The advisor himself explained what the model was, what the objective was, and what is being achieved and what we have to keep working on that line. Mrs Quintana has already told us that we have 45% of the business fabric in relation to the rest of Spain — that is to draw breast and to presume from Galicia — that we generate 60% of the overall economic value and that we have 60% of the employment. And there were very bad times, there were very bad times, in that famous Bipartite, very bad times for the sector. There were very bad times and they didn't see the future. And now comes the future. And generational relief is much easier to apply today, and giving the offer to a new person to dedicate himself to the sea sector than it was in 2006. These data, together with the results in marketing, can guarantee, as I say, the generational relief. Because the sector is starting to become more and more attractive, and that's why Galicia is a reference in the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe. New constructions, a fleet that modernizes — it has said, in a small summary of what the advisor himself said — an increase in the profitability of fishing and, also, and election — this is also an important point and it gives the image that Galicia projects — of the chairman of the board as rapporteur of the Committee of Regions' ruling on the European Maritime Fisheries Fund. That's also a gesture, and it's an important fact for them to have Galicia as a reference and as an advisor at many of the points that have been taken forward in the fisheries sector. The presence and accompaniment of fairs, the lines of work towards internationalization, the forms of modern sales, the digitization of distances, the guarantees of traceability and the most competitive and dynamic fleets are the fruit of a joint work between the sector and the administration of Greece, and we will repeat it here every time it is necessary, because the administration of Greece, with regard to the sea, is always in the hands of the sector. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u109	...data that animates, data that has been provided to you and is used to trigger this government and this advisor to make their maximum performance. And in that they are, and at the advisor's own appearance I am sending myself, deeply regretting that you, in the opposition, continue with a cloth in your eyes and do not want to see the reality so positive and so committed to the sea sector by the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. She has the doubling, by the Government, the sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, really, if you misread what I said you were pulling the maricadores out of the street and that's an offense to the maricadores, I'll take it back. I didn't mean that this was the meaning of my expression, but rather what I meant to say was how you could trick and manipulate the marishers so they could go out and defend something that was harmful to them. That's all I meant: how can the sector be manipulated. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado, I don't mind you saying that I'm coming here and that I'm being seen as a lizard; I could say that I was seen as a Welshman or even as a Venezuelan plain, because any of them are my origins, and that doesn't bother me. I'm upset with other things that he says, because he says it takes courage to come here and say he's got better fishing opportunities. No, what takes courage is for you to come here saying you didn't succeed, what needs courage is not to recognize that we're in March of 2018 and what takes courage is to come here to say and defend that we're not working for the sector and that you're doing a lot for the sector. [[Applause]] Of course, when one sees constant euros, well, in constant euros, 27 million euros have been lost from 2005 to 2009 — now they have risen — and since 2009 the seafarers have increased their income by 22%. Is that a lot? No, I'll never feel satisfied with the things we're going to achieve, no, of course not, because I believe in the future and I think we still have a lot to work on and a lot to improve. But you need courage, eh!, you need courage to come here to say that we don't bet on the sector, say we don't re-run the laughs. Well, look, 44 production zones have improved their microbiological classification. What were others doing in 2005-2009, when microbiological classification areas worsened, when suddenly in 2007 they found that, alas, I did nothing, I have to classify the areas as zone C and now it turns out that this product cannot go for sale in fresh? What did they do? Pay, pay, pay to those confreres who had a certain number of sailors and who could go out on the street; then I pay to keep them quiet, but fix nothing. Only 40 million euros or more in the Ferrol River. [[Murmurs.]] Were you able to improve the microbiological classification? No, no, no, no. Unfortunately, a government of the People's Party came and managed to improve the microbiological classification of 44 areas of seafood production, and today the mariners can live on their work, and all on equal terms. [[Applause]] No, some did, because they belonged to one confrerery and some didn't. [[Murmurs.]] I'm told here that the confrereries are in economic trouble and that they have no surplus. Look, the confrereries can't get out of hand, because they're non-profit public-law corporations. But today's economic situation has nothing to do with what we met in 2009. I'm not going to tell you here the fraternal laughter that when I arrived in 2009 they were at the edge of closing, because they were in technical breakdown, and we worked with all of them, we made together a plan of economic viability for all those who were in a position to close and today are the 62 confrries working perfectly. With difficulties? Well, it might be, but of course, with a lot less difficulty than we've ever seen in 2009. Seed production. Well, yes, we have a problem in Galicia, we are not able to produce all the seed of the thin plum that we would like so that seafooders and seafooders could recover their seafood banks, but it's not for lack of money or support, it's due to technical difficulties in getting thin plum fins. A few years ago, there's been a good chance of getting laid, and there's been a few years now. It's a subject that scientists continue to study and in which we continue to collaborate with them, as is our way of working. I'm deeply upset that every time I come here, they tell me about that consultant who makes the speeches I bring here. No, look, I don't know how you worked, Mrs. Prado, when I was a delegate. I tell you that none of my speeches I give to any consultant, my speeches work for them with my team, and the only thing I charge for outside my board is those collaboration agreements that I keep with the three universities in Galicia so they help the sector get better in all the technical and scientific aspects that we have to improve. It's the only one, with the arrangements I make out of here, not to get my speeches ready. [[Applause]] Because I have a defect: on my computer, where you put me "favorites", I already get fishedegalicia.com, because the first thing I do every day is to go look at the way the data goes on every stretch of Galicia and my satisfaction is when I see that that data gets better. And it's data that, I'm telling you, I'm not inventing them either Mr Feijóo or any member of the People's Party, or any mayor of the People's Party. It's data that directly introduces the sector into sales that it makes in its lengths, and that's why they're not manipulatable. [[Applause]] He came out here again on the subject of the multinationals and on the subject of salmon chalets, and I don't know who they think I have a plot with. Look, I'm telling you, I don't have a conspiracy with any multinationals, I don't have any actions in any multinationals. My only allies are the fishing sector. Yes, the whole chain of the fishing sector, all: those who fish, those who shellfish and those who also do aquaculture, such as all the drummers and all the factories that we have of ear production, roll production, language production. They're my allies, of course they are. I represent them all. And salmon shawls, as it's already a story that so many films were told, then they say that I might be wrong when I say they pulled people out on the street; no, no; they manipulated people to get them to come out with lies. They came to tell the maidens that by putting the salmon growing bays in the stream of Walls, there, because of a strange circumstance, the earth circulated in the opposite direction and would cause the beans of the salmon to return back, towards the stream of the girl, and the microbiological classification of the Noia river would be changed and the production of shellfish would be finished in the river of Noia. I don't know if it's due to salmon circulating there in the opposite sense or what it is, but Noia's laugh has not stopped growing in its production in recent years. And of course, when you tell me that where we put the salmon chalets, we take out work areas for the seams, I don't know what to think anymore, because look, the salmon chalets is in an area where the depth is 20 meters deep, the seams on foot don't work in those depths, but, in addition, where the salmon chalets are placed is in areas where they are declared for aquaculture since the year 1970, published in an Official State Bulletin, they were not areas where they could neither fish nor fish nor anything, they are areas reserved for aquaculture, as are all the bats polygons. [[Applause]] But finally, as I'm already tired, really, it seems to me that we're living in the marble age, and that the data that we're coming here to bring here that there's no fishing possibilities, there's no chance of incorporating youth into our economic activity, because I don't know what else I can tell them. Simply because we have 100 percent chance of increasing cod fishing in the Great Sun, that I was last week accompanying a visit by an area director of the European Commission in the Burela area, in the Vigo area, and that there the ship's own sailors working in the Great Sun told us that in three months they had 17,000 euros; I don't know if it's much or if it's little — I don't see the payrolls of the workers, and I hope they could win even more — but that's what they moved me there. I'm the only one I aspire to is that we follow this line, of course, there is no sector of activity, and I don't refuse to talk about either the yard or the mouth, the sardine or any species, because the data comes down to me and the data accompanies me. It's true that in the garden we don't have the fishing opportunities we have in the jury, but that's also our historical trend. Here you've come to say something very nice. I don't know if the rest of the Members said that last year, of course, the discharges went up so much because there was a lot of horse and that it's a species that has no value. In ancient times the garden had no value, the garden was a species that was only fished to use it as an anchor, today it has a commercial value. And what we have to look for is that these species that are bringing our fleet every day don't get rid of them, let's not say they have no value, because they have a high protein content, because they have a high content in mineral salts, because they have a high content in trace elements. And that's why we have to be able to find him the courage he has today, and if we can go further, better. And those are the only conditions we have to work on, to get our fleet to have more fishing opportunities every day. That's what we've been believing since 2009. And I repeat: when 55% of fishing opportunities were lost from 2005 to 2009 by these political groups that today tell me I don't do anything, from 2009 to 2018 we increased the fishing opportunities by 80%; then we did something. When I'm told we lost jobs at sea, what I'm saying is you're wrong to look at the statistics, because when we lost 3,700 jobs was in the period 2005-2009, 3,700 jobs, that is, almost 1,000 jobs a year. Unless only four years were scarce, if there were many more, I'm sure Galicia was no longer a net fishing community. But since 2009 Galicia has recovered its course again. I'm proud to say that they come to visit us from the European Commission and set us an example at all international conferences and that they come here to learn from us, and that's a satisfaction for me, and on that line I'm going to keep working. They didn't have the slightest doubt, even if they saw me as a lizard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u112	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll stop the session until late at 6:00.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u113	Good afternoon. We restart the session with the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to the motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government for the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreements referred to in AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u114	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. This is a proposal that can be synthesized in three ways. The first has to do with the fulfilment of parliamentary agreements, especially the main agreement, which is what it has to do with the transfer of AP-9. And this should not be necessary, to come here to this gallery again and again to tell the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to abide by parliamentary agreements, but unfortunately we have to do so. Because, moreover, it has become clear to us all this time that the People's Party has adopted this tactic of consensus, of agreement, to fall asleep in conflicts, to cool them, to turn them off or to try to turn them off. That social cry against Fômento, against the Union and against Audasa because we resolve it with a parliamentary agreement. The problem is, then, that these agreements are not met and what happens in Madrid -- and then we'll talk about it. The second objective of this initiative has to do with the improvement — as necessary — of the management of AP-9, putting a stop to abuse, all those biases and privileges that have been acquiring the concessionaire over time, stopping the feet of Audasa, Itinere and also the corsary capital. And the third question of this motion has to do with this great ridicule, with that great scandal of Rande's works, of the endless works of Rande bridge, which is suffering — and well that is suffering — the neighborhood above all of Morrazo. And they should also be sensitive to this issue. First paragraph, therefore: compliance with or failure to comply with Parliamentary agreements relating to AP-9, essentially the transfer agreement. We have adopted up to nine agreements, both in plenary and committee, on AP-9. It has the record, along with the railway, which has also given rise here to numerous consensuss, which is currently remaining on paper, on wet paper, because none of them are being met. The goal: first, the galley management of AP-9, which remains an undeniable goal. It's a question we'll continue to fight for, fighting full after full if we need to, until we get it. We will certainly not renounce this claim. And that's not enough, because, besides, we want an AP-9 without fees, and we think this is feasible. What happens is that we have to work hard, and above all to study the costs it has, when the state is a great beneficiary of AP-9's management and operation, with up to 2,000 million euros of profits since 2003 and when I no longer tell them the millionaire profits from the dealership, and those that are going to be here in 2048 if we don't fix them. And of course, at this point we have a doubt in the BNG, and I suppose in more groups: do you still belong to the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy, lords of the People's Party? Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, and a lot of honor has to say. [[Applause]] Well, the truth is we don't know if we're missing some chapter, but of course, how you vote something here and against it in Madrid, because we already have doubts whether they're still the People's Party or whether they're going to become Citizens, because it seems that there's a talent gathering campaign on the People's Party by Citizens' Party, and you... calm down, don't alter, that's four or ten o'clock in the afternoon and it's not time to change, calm down. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But of course, you don't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u116	Quiet. Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u117	That's it. Absolutely ashamed that they are at this point, they continue to justify that real mugging, that real infamy and the arguments — they go all day with the Minister of Development — that gave the Minister of Development to justify the non-transfer of AP-9. But you don't care, you don't care. You're here to justify, to give the state a reason, to give the Ministry of Development a reason, to give reason to Madrid's PP. They accept none of this from the Madrid PP, because you don't want to bother. They adopted this attitude of submission, of servinism, of complicity with regard to this scam of the beaches and the management of AP-9. You are the useful fools of the Madrid PP, and you have to say this: you are the useful fools of the Madrid PP, you are a zero to the left in state politics. What? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't eat a healthy menu.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u118	Quiet, quiet. Don't go into what everyone ate, because... please! [[Laughter]] Don't come in. If they come in... No, the healthy one would have to see me, but that's another subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now we're not going to get involved. [[Laughter]] That's it. Come on, let's go!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u119	That's what we talked about the other day, then. So, with this initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what we want is to give them another opportunity, that they recover from their mistakes, that they defend the interests of the country, that they defend Galicia, that they defend above all also the legitimacy and dignity of this Parliament — that they are trampling on when they despise the agreements that are taken here — that they once put a face to Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Minister for Development, that they do not put on their carpet, that they do not pick up the briefcase when they come to Galicia, because this is a colonial attitude — that cannot be called in any other way — that they place Galicia's interests in the interests of the People's Party and the interests of Audasa. The second question has to do with improving the management of AP-9, and we're not worth that phantom tracking commission, which has met three times, which has no schedule, which has no results. And what we want with this motion, therefore, is that agreements are complied with and agreements are made. We are talking about eliminating that franchising bonus that has been approved, we want them to tell us what they did to eliminate this bonus; discounts, a protocol of action in case of jams, an audit of the service, the realization of the committed works that were approved here — and none of them started —. I'm referring to the Chapel, I'm referring to the scratched screens, I'm referring to the urban transformation of access to Vigo by AP-9. And we don't ask them to do the work anymore, we ask them to do a mobility study to analyze the different alternatives and if it's really feasible to do the urban transformation from the boundary with Round it, from the towers of Padin, or not. We simply ask for that, but above all, we ask for deadlines, that in 2018 they put up the batteries, put up budgets and do the works that are compromised, starting with the church school of Chapel, which is in a really limited situation, with traffic going, in an absolutely illegal way, 2 meters or less from the school facilities. And of course, if this was little, there was a lack of final marking, there was a lack of final marking of Rande, of that shame, of that ridicule, of that coat of hair, of that insult and of that provocation that was what took place on December 30th of 2017, that inauguration to the candy and plate of the climb of the peaxes, because we can't say that the works were inaugurated, because the works — as we know — are not finished, they were not finished at that time, they were missing works — as we said — and today they follow the works on Rande Bridge. You put in service the new lanes with only one objective — and that's why they did it on the last working day of the year — to encourage again the interests of the dealership and that the dealership makes box, because they did it exclusively because the works are not finished — and well know – and it is suffering from the neighborhood of the Morrazo, which is absolutely isolated right now; they have been suffering from the consequences of the works, with delays to get to Vigo in peak hours of up to 50 minutes and 1 hour, without having any explanation or information to the municipal governments, and today they continue without knowing what the plan of the works is. No action has been taken to minimize the effects of these works, and therefore it is an absolutely unsustainable, indefensible and entrepreneurial situation to which you are justifying and consenting and permitting. And if there was a follow-up commission that was useful for something, it wouldn't happen, because you have now become co-responsible for all these decisions that are being made by the concessionaire and the Ministry of Development. So what we want to tell them is that we're not going to allow these abuses, that we're not going to consent to this outrage, that we're not going to allow this abuse to Galicia, this Parliament, and of course we're not going to let them piss for us and less we're going to say it rains. That's over now, lucky for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u120	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bará. I'm not going to talk about Citizens — for now — about Citizens, about the political party this new one. I do want to speak indeed of these works on the AP-9 motorway; I use them in addition every day I come to this Parliament and therefore I have continued on the front line and live the development of these works. And indeed, there was a real boost in infrastructures to double the bridge; in fact, the last six months of 2017 were at a frenetic pace, day and night, high voltage lights lighting—the truth is, when you arrived you gave the feeling that this was Galactic—and indeed, they opened on December 30th; and indeed, two lanes were cut off and, therefore, a lane in every direction was left on January 10th; that is, we actually had three carriages on the Rande bridge for ten days—it is not bad!—but —it was exactly ten days. The truth is I've heard the People's Party say that, in fact, nothing happened, that two lanes in every direction were left in the same way. Of course, I think it is appropriate to point out something that seems obvious — I felt at least — that it is not the same four lanes with two in each sense that four lanes with one in each direction, separated by a pivot of the bridge, which, of course, prevents the change of lane, and which therefore leads to those jams of Mr Bará's speaking. It just gave me the feeling that some Members... yes, it's very easy, it's very easy, it's an arithmetic issue. [[Murmurs.]] It's about being able to change lanes, something called a discontinuous line, which, of course, was at least in the driver's manual that I studied. [[Applause]] Then, as they try to convince us that we are imbeciles, because they try to convince us that we are imbeciles — fortunately, with little success — because at this moment the communication of Morrazo with Vigo and Pontevedra with Vigo in Rande is a lane in every sense, except for the fourth dimension, which again this Member does not know, but surely the People's Party knows well. I'm talking about the fourth dimension that you know well because we've even seen how it looks like you know it in Corcoesto too; I was talking about a Member some time ago, this morning, about the matter. This opening, which actually met the economic and financial interests of the company, is added to a management of what is the increase or duplication of the Rande bridge which is absolutely harmful in relation to the complementary works. And I want to set an example. The example of school is absolutely spectacular in terms of disability. We've been talking about this unfolding of the Rande Bridge since 2008, there's a project since 2010, it's going to start building in 2011 and it's going to be finished in 2014. Everyone knew that if the AP-9 were added two lanes for each direction, the Church School of Chapel, it would literally be on the highway. There was no need for a fourth or fifth dimension. It was already very close, and if we added a lane, it would literally be as it is: there are no 2 meters between the wall, the sound plate and what is the wall of the corner of the school; a corner where, by the way, there are classes, i.e., there are children and teachers, who will try, as they can, to teach next to a highway that has 60,000 vehicles of average traffic intensity daily, 60,000 vehicles of which 15% is heavy traffic. I think it's appropriate to say it, because, above all, people who aren't from there, because, at last, it may seem like we're focusing too much on these issues. For the Ministry of Development, after all those years of Rande's decoupling project, after the decoupling is done and inaugurated, announces by spring 2018 the beginning of the construction of the new school. I insist: eight years later, the broken bridge, the highway attached to the school, announces the start of the works for the spring — which I think begins tomorrow. Unfortunately, the Council of Galicia has not said anything until now. The advisor, every time he comes to talk about it, of the only thing he talks about is the increase in the fees linked to the White Minister's agreement. And I also want to say here, as clearly as I can: of that increase that occurred in the peas of AP-9 on January 1, 2018 25% is directly related to the agreement signed by José Blanco, yes; 75%, not Mr. Trenor, I know that you are an infrastructure expert, but no, no. Not 75%. No, no. [[Murmurs.]] It's called IPC and it's called an update that signed Minister Ana Pastor, 25%-75%, Mrs. Ethel Vázquez can repeat it here as often as she wants, but it's fake. [[Applause]] The IPC plus the increase Mrs. Ana Pastor signed. Well, then, 25%-75%. [[Murmurs.]] We present an amendment in which one of the points what it does is to take advantage of an unused exit in the towers of Padin, which, in fact, has been done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u122	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u123	...in case there was a toll on the stretch between Rande and Puxeiros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u124	Quiet, please. You hear a lot here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u125	And here too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u126	That's why. You're upset, of course, you're upset.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u127	That's what people are used to having tea at five.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u128	It's annoying. Go to the subject now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u129	So that amendment is what it means to take advantage of the existing infrastructures and the rest complements the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. We, regardless of whether our amendments are accepted, are going to ask for a point vote, separating point 10, and the rest, of course, we will vote for it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u130	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u131	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are going to support this motion that brings the BNG to Parliament today and all those who come to defend Galicia's interests. But above all what we're going to do, which is the important thing in this matter, is that we saw him here, but we're also going to defend him in the state, because we're not going to defend him here if later in the state he's vetoed. Because we didn't come here to deceive citizenship, as the People's Party is doing with this triller game with the question of transfer and rescue of AP-9. I suppose the difference will be what are the reasons why we are motivated by each other to come to this institution. We came to rescue them for citizenship, and you seem to continue to have them kidnapped. Look, the arguments that the People's Party is using to, in the first place, not allow the transfer and reversal to the AP-9 public and, in the second place, the transfer should make them feel very much ashamed, if they still have something left after all they've done. They are showing an absolute contempt for democracy when they do not allow Congress to debate a unanimous bill in this Parliament and show hypocrisy with this trileros game that they intend to deceive citizenship. Because it's the same People's Party that's saying one thing here but then in Madrid it's doing another; it's you, the People's Party. And besides, both the People's Group and the Government of the People's Party are always supporting all these arguments of shame. The argument of budgetary insufficiency to deal with the ransom using the method of multiplying for every year remaining to be granted what is being charged in the fees, without taking into account what is spent on maintenance, without taking into account what is spent on staff, high interest, market price, the very high profits that are being held, well, all those issues that have to be done to do this calculation, which if you are doing this way, is a real shame and an authentic insult to intelligence. But we have something new in this regard. We asked a question to Phonment at Congress, which we had an answer just 11 days ago. It's just that it doesn't seem enough to make fun and talk about 4,300 million, but you're going a lot further. I'm just reading them two paragraphs. In the first they told us what they were saying all these months -- and I translate it -- "Lastly, it is indicated that, according to the latest data closed and available from 2006, the granting of AP-9 had revenues derived from the fee of 300 and 138.6 million. Since the end of the concession is set for 2048, the estimated cost of the whole concession is EUR 4,300 million." It's embarrassing that you can give an answer like that in an official document on Development. But they don't just stay here, it's just that even the purpose has grown 11 days, it goes a lot further. And we have the last paragraph of this part, which says: "There are no appropriations in the budget appropriations of the Ministry of Development that allow us to deal with the said payments, encrypted at a minimum, today, of 554 million euros." They say that the transfer without the ransom costs €554 million — and now when they come here on the road they could refer to it or if they don't say otherwise, but they face all this data here in this Parliament — but that could amount to a total of €8,870 million. You are encrypting the ransom in which it could reach 8,870 million euros! We're probably talking about ten times as much as it probably does, and there's data on the market right now. There's an offer about Itinere that can give us an approximate idea of what it can cost; they're going ten times over: 8,870 million euros di Fomento that can cost the AP-9 ransom. Now you go out here and refer to it or stand against it, but please face and stop hiding and continue to veto Madrid. But we've got more. We have a royal decree of 28 July that says the following with regard to the actual decree of 2016 of the peaxe of Barcala and Rande, of these 400 million that says the People's Party that is going to save Galicia — that is not so —. The Ministry of Development said about the method of compensation, which was paying half to Junta and half to the state, a few months ago: "This situation is considered prejudicial to the administrations involved and is assuming a certain wrongful enrichment." He went out in the press these days: "The Ministry will not push up the amount of money it brought to Junta for the freeness of these two tranches." I mean, the Galician Union has been with the People's Party Government for nine years, paying Audasa 7 million that he didn't have to pay. This is a real scam, 7 million euros a year! And you point that way. In 2007, €2,350,000 was paid for the vehicles traveling there. Well, in 2010 we moved from 2009 to 2010 from 3,593,000 to 7 million — it doubled from 2009 to 2010 — and you seemed fantastic. They've been paying the toilet without any problems for nine years. This is a real scam! And they've come to realize now, now correct Development, now that there's the AP-9 debate on the table and that the numbers are coming out. And now Fomento says, oh, no!, that we're paying double. So you didn't save Galicia 400 million euros — which, in addition, they don't give the numbers: they're 210. You didn't save 400 million euros in Galicia, you've been giving more than 50 million to Audasa for these eight years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u132	Thank you, Mr. Cal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I am glad that at least today Mr Bará has reached this debate. The last time they presented an initiative on AP-9 at the Congress of Deputies they had to defend Bildu. I guess you don't like us going off the minister's hook, each one of you picks from who's going. We are quite pleased to go with the minister and not with the companies you frequent, Mr Bará. You said at the beginning of your intervention that this was an unnecessary agreement, repeatedly, and you're right. The question is, if it's unnecessary — I've been thinking — what might be the reasons for you to present it? To me only three happen: either ignorance or oblivion or bad conscience. Look, you either ignore the current state of the situation around AP-9 or you don't understand this. I'll explain. Look, the reality is that the Board has already supported and supported the claim for the transfer of AP-9; and the fact is that, as a result of this claim, which has not been handled — it is also true — a joint Committee was created, which has already given some fruit, by the way: the agreement on the elimination of Rande's toll — it seems so disturbing — the agreement on the non-impactation of new works at stake. And it is also true that significant progress has been made in relation to those works that worry you so much. Because, as you know, they have an administrative process, it's moving forward in the report of the State Council. And today the minister announced, on a visit here to Galicia, that Rande's toll will be permanently eliminated in June; great news for Chapel that we don't have to thank you. [[Applause]] About the bidding of that school that concerns you so much, I tell you it's in bidding; the urbanization of the land is already auctioned, adjudicated and about to begin its execution. It seems you have now discovered that the school was in a limited position; I remind you that you were ruling when that agreement was made; then you were not worried about anything. But, of course, it is possible that this knows you; in fact, what happens is that you forgot what happened to the previous government. Because look, the other day I heard you say that PP was an accomplice to Audasa. And I think, if anyone has commented on the disams, it was the Socialist Party; but, of course, if the People's Party is an accomplice, you will be the necessary co-operatives. Look, you criticize that we will receive the works of AP-9, the works that are received according to the agreement signed by Mr. José Blanco! Of course, these works must be accelerated, complementary and maintenance. Do you know why complementary works, such as school, like highways, like screens, were not included in that reception? Because you didn't include any in that convention, none! You have left behind the neighbors of Chapel, Your Honor. And, of course, they're here to criticize. [[Murmurs.]] And there are things, Mr. Losada, that haunt me. They criticise works in exchange for rising toll, a rise of 1% cumulative over the next 20 years. Mr. Losada, in a sample of a lack of unlimited stink, in his amendment he qualifies the increase in compensation for Rande's investments as an extraordinary increase. But if you approved it! But can you be less ashamed? But — I really say — can you be less ashamed to qualify as an extraordinary increase the nail that you have put on all the Greeks? What a shame! [[Applause]] Cinism, Mr. Losada, for asking... after not removing the payout of Round it, that they never explained to us why they didn't eliminate it when the rest of the fee was loaded, after not urbanizing the towers of Padin, when you had 21,000 million investment budget, now they're demanding the Ministry when you have the third part, 7 billion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Vigo]] I know this is the usual way of socialists. By the way, I have to remind you both to complain so much about the reception of the works, that the increase in the fee for the works is not being applied, is that it is not being applied. I want them to be clear. So, I understand that now they come with these things, it's logical. You first create five million unemployed and come to give employment lessons; first freeze pensions and then explain how to raise them; first lower the wages to public workers and now come to demand increases. It's socialist mode, it's logical, I understand you do this. But, man, we're not going to mix with mill wheels. And finally, how I think they really know what is done and how I think they really know what is done, I think that the BNG presents this out of bad conscience — I really say —. I think you're trying to clear BNG's history with regard to AP-9, a history that certifys that you always go against Galicia. Look, you insist now that AP-9 is the Galician spine, so we forget that they qualified it as the "navalade" to Galicia. They now demand the transfer after when they ruled they voted against the transfer. They demand the elimination of the toll after you were precisely those who motivated the toll of Round it. I demand that the State assume a cost after you took 7 million years of cost that the State was obliged to pay. They came here to talk about friendship with Audasa, who guaranteed him 8% financial benefit and didn't set up a top of vehicles, which today, by the way, today is, today, if it's done indeed by a government of the People's Party; what you signed, the socialist lords, 8% annually. [[Murmurs.]] They're not ashamed, really. [[Applause]] Look, I'll be forgiven. We were reminded the other day that Mr. Bará was appearing on the opening day in Rande. That's good, Mr. Bará! The question the roundabouts ask was, where were you during the five consecutive years that supported Mr. Zapatero's budgets? Where were they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u135	I remember: look, they were ruling in the Council of Coruña, they were ruling in the Town Hall of Coruña, they were ruling in the Town Hall of Santiago, they were ruling in the Town Hall of Vilagarcía, they were ruling in the Town Hall of Pontevedra, they were ruling in the Town Hall of Cangas, they were ruling in the Town Hall of Moaña, they were ruling in the Vigo Town Hall and they were ruling in the Town Hall of Roundalla; in them all, the hands of the socialists. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know what all the Greeks now know, Mr. Bará? That the block deal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u136	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u137	...nationalist in exchange for a chair becomes the puppy of socialists. That's what we all know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u138	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Author group of the motion, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u139	Today Mr. Paz has been unusually moderate. Unusually, without it being used as a precedent. [[Laughter]] Look, Mr Pazos, we're going to be a bunch of democratic political forces. From whom we're not going to crochet... from whom we're not going to crochet is from corrupt people who steal from the State's archives. [[Murmurs.]] Of course we're not gonna hook up with that, we're not gonna hook up with that. [[Applause]] And you're... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u140	Quiet. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u141	...I've made up my mind many times...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u142	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u143	And I repeat again: we're not going to hook up with corrupts, we're not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u144	Quiet. A little calm, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u145	You have a lot of experience, you have a lot of experience in this, I'm not going to remind you here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u146	A little quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u147	They have a lot of experience on that, so they'd better be quiet, because they have a lot of photographs, and I don't tell them about smugglers' crochet anymore. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u148	Quiet. Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u149	Don't go that way. And they don't go for the razor, either, because I've made it clear to them, and I've told them many times that we've been short for the razor. Indeed, the plot was brutal, it was brutal, but the worst problem was not that: the worst problem was that it was a theft and a scam to the sleeves; that's the main problem of the razor. [[Murmurs.]] It was a lot more than a razor. Look, if you say you want Galicia so much, both AP-9, who want the transfer so much, you have it easy: tell your Members and Members of the People's Party in Madrid that they vote in favour of the transfer and the matter is settled. That's how easy the problem is. Therefore, coherence, nothing more than that. They're not worth flowering, they're not worth flowering, they're not Parliamentary agreements when then they vote otherwise in Madrid. They have it easy: tell them, if they have something to say and send something, that they vote in favour of Galicia and meet the commitments of this Parliament. That's easy. [[Applause]] Look, you say they won't fund new works with fees, but they just approved the suppression -- well, we'll see when it's -- of the payout from Round it to Vigo -- July or June -- with a new increase in the fees. And we tell them that no, there are other formulas. Just as we told them that for Chapel school an agreement was signed in 2015 and they are not starting the works and are suffering from the consequences of AP-9 enlargement, because what they were interested in was to inaugurate the rise of Rande's beaches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u150	Quiet, quiet. Quiet. It's in the use of the word. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u151	The agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u152	Quiet, quiet. That's it. No, no, please. That's it, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u153	The 2011 agreement of Mr. Blanco, to which the BNG opposed — that work and that convention — was ratified and extended in 2012 and 2013 by Minister Ana Pastor. So you're partners and collaborators of all these decisions, including the rise of the fees, all the fees, of 3.81%; you're responsible for all that. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is clear what their role is, which is to defend all the decisions that are made in Madrid and to be served by it. And with regard to the amendments of the Socialist Group, we can't accept number 10, which refers to the conversion of this frame... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u154	Quiet, quiet, I want to know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u155	...in urban mode...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u156	Quiet, that's all right. Quiet, please. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, please, Mr Pazos, if you've already been in the debate; now I'm interested to know how the amendments work, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u157	That he had a moderate performance here today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u158	Tell me about the amendments. You don't accept number 10, which is modification, do you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u159	Yes, number 10 is replacement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u160	That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u161	I don't accept it. And we accept the following, which would be amendments to add, and we accept the separate vote from that point 10, although we do not understand that they do not want to accept a proposal that simply says, "a study of mobility and the consequences of that work." Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u162	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of gender-based violence and equality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u163	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group. To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u164	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Despite the well-known mirrorism of equality that we have often talked about in this House, today at this very moment half of the population continues to be subject to discrimination and violence by the mere fact of being a woman. Fortunately, the truth is that in recent years feminism has advanced towards greater awareness of society and, in fact, we have seen a great success in the streets of this country, from all over the state, from many states of the world, on 8 March in the streets. But also what is that the social and political structures that have allowed the continuation of patriarchal violence for centuries to continue in force, there is still much to be changed, both in our personal environment and, of course, in the institution, to achieve de facto equality and to end once and for all the unfair subordination of women to men. Some of the most important changes we have to make are precisely about our imagination. In cases of sexual violence, women continue to be exploited by society, as well as by certain professionals who are involved in assistance, who look at them with some suspicion. In this way, the victims of sexual violence are demanded what would be unthinkable if they were victims of any other kind of crime. No one would dare ask a person who was the victim of a robbery, for example, how and how he resisted the crime or if he normally had a conduct that could lead him to think he likes to give the money. A robbery is a robbery, and point, but sexual violence is always — and above all — a cause of suspicion. If this happens, it is because we continue to think that on many occasions women provoke the violence of men, we, as it seems, are responsible for the aggressions we suffer. Just take a look at the press. Just turn on the TV. Such a hypothesis is the guilt that victims of sexual violence feel ashamed of themselves and question their own behavior more than those of the attackers. Institutions aren't innocent either. Roman law had already called for riots and cries of struggle to provoke him to act against the will of the victim, because, of course, his word was not enough. It's just that a woman's word seems never enough, she's always suspicious, even now. We have no more to remember the still recent and lacerating case of the Manada; five men forced a girl to maintain sexual relations with them, then they left her on a portal and stole her phone, and yet it was her behavior that was being tried at all times on all television channels, in all the media, asking such things as were innuendoed to those men, why she had accompanied them, where she had been with them and a long et so many disproposions aimed at questioning the victim's version. These kinds of attitudes that blame the victims and excuse the aggressors constitute what we call the culture of rape. Within this culture, sexual aggression is never an isolated fact that reaches a single woman, but it is also a warning to the rest of us. That's what can happen to us if we don't meet the patriarchate's requirements. That's why it's important that we assume that the feminist struggle is always a collective battle: when they touch one, they touch all of us. An ingenious battle that we must also wage from the institutions, which for too long have worked in the service of the enemy. The first thing we can and should do, from institutional space, is to promote the visibility of sexual violence, which by its very nature tends to remain in the private sphere. That is why we need to collect data that underline the seriousness of what is happening and allow us to take the necessary steps to solve it. As the successive state government macroeconomic surveys have shown, the questionnaires are the best way to work with a lot of figures. Thanks to them, we know that in 2015, for example, 24.2% of women living in Spain over 16 years of age have suffered physical or sexual violence over their lives; that is, almost the fourth of the population of adult women in the Spanish state have been victims of male violence. That's the magnitude of the problem we're dealing with, one in four. Another data. Every eight hours there's a rape; it's done: only in the duration of a full time, a violation. It's data, as I said, of the state as a whole, and from En Marea we think we need to have a similar perspective on what's going on in Galicia. For this reason, in the motion we are defending today, we call for the elaboration of a Welsh macro-enquisition on the incidence of violence throughout the life cycle of women, including specific sections on sexual violence, of a quantitative and qualitative nature. It's about having all the data available. In this way, with data in hand, it'll be easier to fight against machismo in every issue. Therefore, we also advocate the need to draw up an autonomous report annually identifying what the profiles, developments and trends in aggression and sexual abuse are, as well as the administration's response to this type of crime. In the same line we propose the creation of a coordination table and autonomous analysis on sexual violence before the end of 2018, where, first, all the agents involved are present: administrations, collectives and specialized associations. Secondly, a work plan is being put in place to coordinate with local administrations, as well as with private companies and with all public institutions, to develop protocols against labour harassment and for gender reasons. Thirdly, a map of care resources for women victims of sexual violence is being prepared and made available to the public. Fourthly, the debate on prevention campaigns and action guidelines for sexual assaults is being evaluated. And finally, there's a map of black spots of macho violence, where women perceive more insecurity or aggression. On the other hand, in our motion we include the need to develop a specific care programme for victims of sexual violence, including psychological care — a fundamental issue in caring for victims of such crimes — and all the means necessary for all those who need them. We're talking about a specific program, because, despite the fact that there's a programme of care for victims of violence, there's no specific violence, sexual violence. And we think that a specific programme is needed to prevent secondary victimization, a problem of first magnitude when we talk about sexual violence, because many of the victims who report are assured that they are traumatized by medical checks and interrogations that occur during the criminal proceedings. They feel scolded and judged and therefore questioned. This is something that since public administrations should not be allowed. We believe that it is also necessary to evaluate non-compliance with the use of inclusive language by administrations and to make all publications and communications promoted and/or contracted by the Administration use this non-sexist language, we have seen it in the past, there is a lot to do, a lot of awareness to do in non-sexist language. It requires that we not cement ourselves, but that it is derived from the current legislation on equality and that it is not always met as it should be. And we must also talk about training. Training needed in all the fields, essential to provide as much attention as possible. So our group is proposing a specific programme for the human resources personnel of public and private companies and the public administration in terms of gender prevention and prevention of harassment. And training also, of course, in schools, a matter often repeated in this House which seems to us of particular relevance and urgency: equal training for young people, the role of school as a change agent. In this sense, we once again propose the creation of equal agents squares in educational centres, the development of an equal training plan for the teaching body, directed at the prevention and detection of macho violence. Extending gender equality to all educational courses, as well as developing a co-educational patio plan. Of course, in order for all of this to happen, budgets are needed at the same time. So we ask that in the next budgetary exercise, the budget allocated to gender equality will consist of at least 1% of the budget set, specific figures, concrete commitments, because without budgets there are no policies, no resources, no policies, no money on the table, the only propaganda, such state pacts that they like so much to sign to the People's Party. We are tired of propaganda, we want concrete commitments, which is why we think it is a totally irrevocable point of our motion. After March 8 we saw a sudden change — surprising change — in the speech of the Union. After hearing such things as that the March 8 feminist demonstration was the most machist that could be done, suddenly the president of the board, as well as almost all his advisers, went out supporting the citizens' demands of the thousands of women we went out into the street to demand equality and dignity. We'd like to believe that his words will be honest, but for that they would have to support them with realized facts in favor of the feminist movement. No more words, no more commitments. Now they have the chance to compromise. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u166	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. If I may have a parenthesis, because we always talk about napkin. I wanted to make a suggestion, there's a documentary that's hanging on the network of the year 1977. It's entitled "Autotrack, a knife to our land." And the very origin of this is precisely the authorship of Llorenç Soler and photoxornalist Anna Turbau; from 1977 it was that likeness of the navalada and AP-9. I'm sorry to hear about that. And I'm already going to the question and without wanting to take it away from him or anything else, the question that is addressed in today's motion at Marea, we, from the BNG, have included an amendment to add to that motion that is focused on, which is focused on a question that is absolutely fundamental to us. We have made progress, we have talked about it on other occasions in this House, also in the whole past, and it is absolutely central to us when we talk about equality, real and effective measures to promote them, especially when we talk about educational centres, as Mrs Chao said, as an element of social transformation. For us it is absolutely fundamental to the question which we present today in our amendment of adding, and which links, in addition, precisely with those demands of the massive demonstrations that have been experienced on both 4th and 8th March in our country. A very clear message, a very direct message, and also a very powerful message, is that there are no more declarations of intent, no empty speeches, no smoke, no propaganda, but what is urgent are concrete actions and, above all, real and effective measures that go on the line to banish the machism and to remove — if I too allow that simile, already talking about similes — to root out a patriarchal culture that continues to reproduce and retransmitte, too, the newer generations. And in this sense, as we have already defended on other occasions in this House, what we propose in our amendment is the abolition of concerts and all public funds that support gender discrimination in our country's classrooms, which continue to support 58 units, 58 units in 5 concerted centres where women and men are separated into classes; 58 teaching units in 5 centres linked to Opus Dei. Because, look, this weekend -- I suppose like us more people in this House -- we had the pleasant opportunity to hear an interview from the Secretary General of Equality, in which he said co-education is the key, is one of the fundamental foundations in the fight against playing role plays and macho stereotypes. Mrs. López Avella said, too, that if co-education is not worked, there will still be gender-based violence. And I was saying a lady, who is part of a government that you support with most in this House, who shielded public funds from segregationist education by 2023, and also suppressed co-education as a preference criterion in the distribution of concerts, without that General Secretariat of Equality saying absolutely nothing. And, as you know, co-education is based on coexistence, that's the key element in developing a co-education-based teaching: don't separate women from men, because -- as you know better than anyone -- we live and share the same society. These funds are directed to private education, to the discriminatory education of students on the basis of sex, it also comes out of the pockets of workers and workers in this country, so that the money of all, the money of the public, is being used to finance segregation, separation and discrimination. It wouldn't be in the 21st century in the head of anyone who financed with public money centers aimed at black people. Why do we accept that they are financed by money from everyone, by public money, by centres that separate women from men in class? We also share — as proposed in the resolution itself of the motion and how it has just been defended here by En Marea — that what is urgent is real commitments, not hollow declarations and that we therefore make politics. This morning we would again hear that idea, somewhat paradoxical within a parliament, that you can't politicize, yes. Politics is a political decision, it's to stop financing the separation of women from men in classrooms, just as it's an ideological decision to maintain the funding of these centres. I don't have any more time. Finally, let us be pleased, above all, to see this last point, that they have now put on the table as an essential condition; let us be very pleased to see this proposal of 1% of the budget directed at the fight against macho violence and the promotion of real and effective equality. It's a lot, in addition, that we've been defending for years since the BNG which is urgent and indispensable to be destined to combat all forms of masculine violence, among them, too, as the spokesperson for En Marea also focused on sexual violence. A rape with penetration reported a week in our country. A sexual violation per week, and that's the data on which official records and documentation are available. We're faced with a reality that we can't profile, much less turn our backs on. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u168	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. To talk about sexual violence is to talk about one of the most invisible and forgotten gender-based violence, which is why it seems to us today that this debate has been brought here to the House. And that's especially because since 8 March we have to live with a situation difficult to digest, and not only for the Socialist Party, but for all the women in Galicia who see how equality policy is in the hands of those who don't believe in their demands, he has doubted his free decision and the legal and important claims. Like the conceler lady of equality in Ourense, Mrs Godoy, accusing the women who were trying to manifest themselves to promote confrontation, hatred between men and women, and androphobia, and even to attempt to break the structure of today's society. [[Applause]] It must have been that the noise of the zumba classes that promote within his conchlery did not allow him to pay attention to the real demands of the orensas. We hope that your resignation will be considered with respect to the Oranssian women, and I say, I say, neither socialists nor women of En Marea nor nationalists, but all the orenss who have gone out into the street and who do not approve of their management or their attitudes. Because that would be as good as giving a good look to the wolf in a meadow as he cares for the sheep. [[Applause]] For all those who like Mrs. Godoy don't have clear concepts of equality, let's first make clear what we mean when we talk about sexual violence. According to the Galician Law for the Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence, in its article 3, sexual violence and sexual abuse are defined as those that include any act of a sexual nature, forced by an aggressor or not consented to by a woman, regardless of whether or not the aggressor guards the marital relationship of an affectionate couple or kinship with the victim. And, on the other hand, sexual harassment includes those conducts consistent with the request for sexual favors for you or for a third person where the active subject prevails in a situation of higher educational or similar employment. This last one, too, by Ourense, they know a lot. Both manifestations are gender-based violence, as are physics, psychology, economics or trafficking in women and girls for exploitation. And it's true that as well as other violences have gained visibility and, therefore, also in detection, sexual violence continues to belong to a more intimate and private area. Data from the latest macroeconomic survey on violence in 2015, published by the Ministry of Health, revealed how 7.2% of Spanish women have suffered sexual violence outside the scope of their partner or former partner at some point in their lives. And one out of every 100 was raped at some point, in fact, there's a rape every eight hours in Spain, the figure is frankly terrible. And another type of data is also compiled, as the increasing level of studies increases the percentage of women who have suffered sexual violence throughout their lives. This last fact speaks of a question that is very important to us. In gender-based violence there is a great deal of concern, including in prevention campaigns themselves, in a prototype of women economically dependent and with little training. And statistics show us that violence against women doesn't know about profiles. They are precisely the most trained, in this case, those who suffer most from sexual violence. So let's be aware that gender-based violence affects all women, a gender problem, half the population, and let's stop believing that the solution goes by empowering women. Let's give up the speech that women must be protected from men, those who know how to say no, those who don't leave alone at night, those who don't drink if they don't want to be exposed to rape. Women want to be free, without having to be cautious to seal it, just like men. So let's stop focusing on the solution in women, 98.1% of the aggressors are men, so it seems a lie that they are the excluded ones and parts of the campaigns, the measures and the solutions. The Socialist Party firmly believes that in the equal education of children and children one of the points where all efforts must be made and put in place is to bet on preventive policies, which in the balance of equality can by themselves reduce the need for palliative policies. To promote emotional-sexual education, not with relationships of dependence or submission, but with healthy and healthy relationships, respecting us as equal. We therefore support this motion with an amendment to point 7(a)in line with the text already dealt with at the plenary session two weeks ago and that it would modify the text by saying that the figure of equal coordinator will be created at all educational centres in the autonomous community, which will be an accredited teacher and will receive the necessary training and support for the effective development of his task. We hope this transaction will be taken care of, and we will support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u170	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I agree, consensus, consensus, once again, one more initiative, one more intervention for equality, in order to end masculine violence, and once again I insist that we have to reach agreements, in which we have to have consensus. We will only end violent attitudes when the aggressors perceive that they have no space or shelter in society, that there is unity between all of them to end inequality, with macho violence, whether verbal, physical, psychological, economic or sexual violence. They bring today the debate on the tide group eight points, and I will refer briefly to them. First of all, they call for a coordination table with a series of functions, which could be found within which the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence currently operates, for better coordination, and not start dispersing work at different tables or working groups. From the People's Parliamentary Group we propose in our amendment that a technical subgroup be created within the observatory, of which all these specialized administrations, collectives and associations that you propose in your initiative. We also propose that a sexual harassment protocol be developed to disseminate and launch in the Galician companies, and we also propose that the Map of Care Resources be disseminated to women victims of gender-based violence, which is already available on the website of Junta de Galicia. Because you, gentlemen, in your initiative talk about sexual violence as if it weren't gender-based violence, as if it weren't included in the Gender Violence Act. And the truth is a little surprising, because any victim of sexual violence has access to all the resources that are given from Galicia, from all administrations, and that promote the Equality Act and the Gender Violence Prevention and Treatment Act. I don't understand very well when you ask, therefore, to provide victims of gender-based violence, sexual violence, psychological care. As you know, that resource already exists for victims of gender-based violence, so I don't understand very well what their approach is, because I don't know if it's to stand aside, if it's a different thing when they're accessing the psychological care resource. The truth is, I don't understand it, they can explain to me whether it's a different issue from the resource now being given to victims of gender-based violence. Considering, too, that our Welsh Gender Violence Act is more advanced than state law, because it includes sexual assaults that do not include state law. So it seems that by presenting this initiative you are actually recognizing that sexual violence does not enter into gender-based violence. The truth is, I don't understand it very well, but in any case we want to reach agreements on this matter, and that's why we propose an amendment to improve if, indeed, there are some issues in which we can always move forward. You're talking about developing a macroeconomic survey in Galicia on the incidence of gender-based violence throughout the people's life cycle. Well, we agree, there's already been one in 2011 whose results were made public in 2012, and we don't think it's wrong to do another one. We also propose to bring forward a specific programme for public administration personnel in the area of sexual harassment prevention, and we also agree that information on sexual violence is also included in the annual report on follow-up to the Comprehensive Gender Violence Treatment Act. Once again, if sexual violence enters gender-based violence, we don't understand why sexual violence must be removed from the general report of gender-based violence. Because, ladies and gentlemen, macho violence has the same source of inequality and the same distortion of man's possession or primacy over woman; so we don't understand why they want to get the sexual violence out of the general report of gender violence. So I think it must be included there, it must have the same treatment, with the specificities of each type of violence: psychological, economic, verbal and physical, logically. We also agree that budgets are increased both in prevention and intervention on gender-based violence. You're talking about 1%. Well, the sum of both intervention and prevention items is already above 1%. We consider that if you should increase the budget, yes, you're not surprised, now I can't do the accounts because I don't have time, but you are. Then, in the other matters we don't talk about in the amendment, it's because they're already being done. For example, in point 1, as I said, sexual violence is part of gender-based violence, and so there are programs and psychological care already taking place. The Liana program, at the end of 2017, is a specific programme of intervention with women victims of sexual abuse and violence. As for the use of non-sexist language, ladies and gentlemen, there already exists on the Galician Union website a specific paragraph on it. What we're not going to get in is we're going to get stuck in impossible vocabularies, like a member, or a spokesperson, because that's nothing good for them to take us seriously on this subject. And in the educational field, so look, you refer to the squares of equality agents. We would have a lot to discuss about this, because, look, I'm part of Galicia's first promotion of equality agents, and the truth is there are associations that are fighting for this professional figure to be considered, and of course there are people who have taken 250 hours courses, and who consider themselves to be equal agents. You, on your own initiative, put a minimum of 300 hours. The truth is, I don't think we should make any deal about the number of hours that are considered as training to consider whether a person is an equal agent or not. That is what Socialist Mrs Cajide knew a lot about, and I think, ladies and gentlemen, that in this debate we should not go in — I insist — without the consensus of the professionals concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u172	Well, I think, ladies and gentlemen, our proposals are realistic and useful, they walk on the same path as their proposal, and I think we can reach agreements on what we agree on and leave aside what we do not agree on. If we want to get out of here today with an agreement and consensus on gender-based violence, it's in your hand. If nothing, then we will continue to politicize, making gender equality and violence a political daring weapon, but for that it does not contain the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the motion, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u174	Well, first of all, we want to thank the opposition groups for their interest in the motion we are presenting today. As far as amendments are concerned, to say, first of all, that we are going to accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. Of course, from En Marea, as we have defended on many occasions in this House, we consider it urgent to end the concerts in those centres that separate the student. It is essential to end this macho practice, and of course defending equality is incompatible with financing those who practice discrimination and difference. As far as the Socialist Group's amendment is concerned, we propose a transaction equivalent to what we have already agreed on in the past, when we talk about equality agents and when we agree on the need to create equality agents who had at least the degree of specific higher education in this area. And with regard to the amendments made by the People's Group, we have to say that they are clearly insufficient. Mrs Prado, consensus, consensus, consensus, of course, only you are missing, so we encourage you to join. We hope that yes, consensus, consensus, of course. [[Applause]] I agree, but not always, that they bring amendments that are only geared towards diverting our proposals and leaving them at the usual: words, words, words. We prefer consensus. And why would I tell you this? Look, because we could get into transactions at several of the points they propose. In the first one, for example, we're defending a table and you're a subgroup. Well, that's negotiable. The point is, we want it to be an effective space, really. We often met working groups that only met once, in their own constitution. I could ask you, for example, how many times you have joined the Galego Observatory. That's why we want no abstractions, no declarations of good intentions, but a specific date for creation, which you cancel in your proposal. But, as I say, about this we could come to an agreement. The problem is everything that eliminates, eliminates our teaching proposals, or our proposal on the elaboration of a map of black spots of masculine violence, where women perceive more insecurity, or where they have suffered aggression. We understand that this point is very important for women, because we need to know, too, how aggressions are qualitatively, where they occur and where we can influence to prevent more women from being afraid. Not only do we, the organized society itself, women themselves are taking on this task as their own, drawing up such things as maps of fear. Look, maps of fear, as if they didn't have much to do. Or on the question of the specific care program. You're talking about a show of attention to the victims of gender, but the question is, we understand that sexual violence needs specialized attention. That's why we propose a specific program, which may be within a more general program, but in practice it doesn't work in that sense. In practice, and I'm sure you know, there are many women who are victims of this kind of aggression that are left without specialized attention. But what we can't negotiate on is about the last point, the budgetary question. Mrs. Prado, this is the key. We propose in the next budgetary exercise to increase the budget allocated to gender equality to 1% of all budgets, and you propose to increase, but not how, or how, or anything. And he just said they're already spending more. Anyway, they wouldn't have any problem accepting our proposal. What a bit of rigour, Mrs. Prado! That's not strict! We wait for your numbers, because now you don't have your hand or your head, just go up here and say what you want, we wait for the specific figure. In the meantime we insist, we are suspicious, because we already know enough of the numbers of the People's Party, we already know of the numbers of increase of the People's Party, such as that 0.25% of the misery they want to raise to pensioners. That's why we're suspicious, we know of their poverty rises, of the ups that are downs, actually. That is why we do not trust ourselves, so our proposal is clear, if they accept this point they compromise with a concrete budget figure and consensus will be possible. Otherwise, in Marea you won't accept amendments sent only to a headline in the press, pretending they do. With our pleasure, of course not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to achieve equality between men and women in the fields of science, technology, research and innovation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u176	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u177	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. As you know, this motion is the result of the interpellation developed in the previous plenary about the role of women in science and the problems of inequalities, which are still present in this area, as in many others. But this area must be an individualised aspect within the equality programmes, as it defends UNESCO and as it defends the European Union, which has been insisting for 20 years on the needs of all Member States to put in place transversal policies in this regard and to end with the invisibility and segregation of women in the scientific, research and technology field. In this explanation, I think I have provided data, which I think is significant, on the situation of women in science, both in Spain and in Galicia. Statistics are very tense and indicate that in Spain women's participation has not improved, it has been stagnated for ten years, and that Galicia's number of university researchers has dropped by 16% in the last nine years. By the way, much more than in Spain, which still exists a very important glass roof, and which, despite the fact that equality between men and women is recognised from the normative point of view, is not implemented into social reality, as we are seeing from a very everyday point of view, and neither in the world of science. It is necessary to affect it, because this, as you know, is a world where the assessment of merits is continuous and where essentially merit, individual merit and groups where one is registered. That's why it's a very refractory world, even though there may be sociocultural elements and variables that can influence their development, but they do exist. There are discrimination, many of them even unconscious, and there are still gender stereotypes. It tells us the data provided by the Ministry of Economics through the analysis of figures, which shows that the percentage of women receiving R & D+i aid on the total number of applicants is systematically lower than that of men. In the same way, it is demonstrated, and it has been measured, that scientific journals accept about 10% less of articles signed by women than by men. And you probably remember the studies, which have had a lot of impact lately, on the selection of staff, which demonstrate that the equality of curricula, and confirmed by name and surnames, the selection committees elect, systematically, men, the situation that radically changes when the curricula are anonymous, that then there is a much higher choice of women. Well, the European Union maintains, with much logic, that this situation of women's underrepresentation in science and research threatens the excellence of research and science, in addition to representing a poor expenditure on public resources. Of course, there's also a clear injustice. But unfortunately, in the interpellation of the whole past, I think it became clear that since 2009, the Galician Union has abandoned any policy of promoting gender equality in this area. The counsellor was unable to tell us or describe to us any specific action or program that was being implemented by the Department of Equality, as well as by Education or Innovation. And it is necessary for Junta to lead the political initiative again in this direction, and that is why we are presenting a motion in which there is a summary of what we consider the most important measures; they are not all, logically, because it would be absolutely impossible, but they should be put in place more immediately. And we follow the guidelines reflected in the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in 2015, a resolution on women's professional careers in scientific, academic and technological fields, and to break the existing glass ceiling that essentially looks at these strengths or these issues: the incorporation of the gender dimension into research programmes; the removal of legal or other barriers to recruitment; the retention of staff and the advancement in the professional career of researchers; and the adoption of global structural change strategies in order to correct inequalities. This for us can be translated into the scope of the Galician Union, first of all, to put in place the Women's and Science Unit. A unit created in the government chaired by Mr. Pérez Touriño, who was absolutely abandoned in 2009 and which had to be — and so it was in the years when it could work — the engine and the steering wheel of all measures and policies related to women and science. But since 2009 -- I insist -- nothing has been done at all, and that's not what I say, is that anyone can go to the Internet and go to the Women's and Science Unit website. And it's frozen in 2009, the latest news is from 2009; it's true, you can come in and look at it. It's more, it's such a wish that I reported this two weeks ago, I thought that something came to this plenary, at least to say: well, well, we corrected, it's not so... they didn't correct anything! We're in 2009. I insist that this unity — which also exists in the state realm — should be the driving force and leadership of all policies around women and science. And I insist again, policies that are not what we invent them, that are called upon by the European Union and are fundamental to the growth of research in a knowledge-based economy. Well, so we have a dead unit in 2009, because we don't have the Women's and Science Program hanging out. It's one thing, the truth is, it's an absolute wish. The budget game has disappeared for the unit, but I don't think that's it, because at last it's not that much either. What has disappeared was all policies carried out, there are no studies, no analyses, no measures, nothing at all. Well, then, the first thing is to put this unit in place. Secondly, it is necessary to detect the problems presented to women in this world, and that is why we want there to be among the departments of Economics, Education and Equality an analysis that detects in all processes and evaluations we will bar them from using them for the granting of all public aid and contracts to research and innovation; to detect the problems that can harm women, because they can have and have them in general, for example, with the fact of maternity. Surely you all remember the case of a Welsh researcher who didn't get a Miguel Servet contract because his years dedicated to having two children were penalized. This is a requirement of the European Union, to evaluate these policies, not our invention. On the other hand, specific active measures must also be taken, not simply to say what will be done. No, a plan with concrete measures to encourage women's participation in industry, which is — I know — the most difficult thing, but which has to be developed through a strict application of equal opportunities. And for this, I think it has to be taken into account the opinion of all the women involved, who are part of associations of researchers, technologists, executives. Because they know what the problems are and where they can be solved. And, of course, the gender perspective must be introduced into all Galician union R & D policies, which are not, ladies and gentlemen, nowhere. Neither at RIS3, nor at Plan Galicia Innova, nor at the Agency of Innovation, nor at the Agency of Modernization of Galicia, nor at public centers; they are not. And — I insist — this is also not only a fundamental element, but a requirement of the European Union to present this gender perspective in all R & D policies. And besides all this, a series of measures as much as could be done about education. Because we must also end the horizontal segregation that is closing the future of our country's girls and girls. Well, I think they're all very reasonable. I insist, it is in the mandates of the European Union and, as such, I hope that all of your lords will approve this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u180	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, as he said in his speech few months ago in this parliament, the first President of the Galician Union, I ask you to be kind enough. A few days ago Workers' Commissions presented a decalo of the feminist school. At these ten points, which are the line to follow in the classroom, they invite us to ban football in the playgrounds, since the management of the courtyard is still a reflection of the capitalist, consumer and capacitist system. They also suggest not to separate the bathrooms from men and women, we have to de-heterosexualize the school. And in the classroom we should speak using female and gender neutral with the letter - and to say, for example, instead of "all" talking about "all." With which, look, leaving these pedagogics aside, I want to thank you for your motion that allows us, once again, to show the rigorous work that the Council of Galicia is doing on this issue. And we've introduced a replacement amendment that goes far beyond what you ask. On the basis of the Galician Women's and Science Unit Program, we certainly propose to update and modernize its website and give visibility to the role of women in science and technology. Of course, collaborating with the equality units of the Greek universities, the three campuses of our autonomous community. We also propose to extend the implementation of information and training actions in the field of education, and to continue the development of studies on the incorporation of women into the STEM profession, in mathematics, technology, science and engineering. To evaluate, of course, the fulfilment of the II Education Programme for Women and Science, which will be attended by this parliament in the coming months to make this assessment. In July 2014 the study presented influential factors in the choice of scientific, technological, mathematical and engineering studies in Galicia, which developed the Galician Union, Amtega and Everis to a total of 5,000 third- and fourth-place students from ESO and Bachelor's degree. With these students, from 40 centres in Greece, it is intended to know what is the reason why there is no choice on these subjects, to determine the process of choosing the training itinerary and also to put the resources needed and to address this problem. The experts evaluated this survey, they are staff of the ICT cluster and staff of the different educational entities, business organizations and the different professional schools. And the work is being done with the student, with the family environment, in the educational and social fields. The president of the Union has advanced in September this year the Welsh Strategy for Digital Education by 2020. The centers with a digital book, we'll have a bachelor's degree of excellence in science, there'll be spaces for students, families and, of course, teachers, where projects will be developed through experimentation. There will also be a network of STEM centers and 200 science clubs in classrooms with investigative methodology. The STEM week will be promoted for more than 2,000 Greek students with investments in robotics, 3D programming and computer thinking. With regard to specific action plans for women and university education, and for the evaluation of contracts and public aid, despite the fact that the university has its own autonomy, only transmit them to two laws: to the Law of 2015, so that the conditions of equal employment are met in our autonomous community, and also to the new Public Procurement Act 9/2017 of 8 November, where efficiency in expenditure is therefore collected, with respect to the principles of equal treatment, non-discrimination, transparency, proportionality and integrity. And to conclude, the Galega Innovation Agency GAIN does a detailed analysis of the studies to assess public aid, give visibility to the perspective of gender and develop from the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry measures that promote women's participation in digital transformation in industry towards a 4.0 industry on an equal footing. Me, nothing else. Thank you very much. And just ask them to be careful about equality to the entire bench on the left of this Parliament. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u181	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u182	Mrs. Burgo, as we have just heard, you can see that the spokesperson for the People's Party has not been able to find the German Women's and Science Program either, because it is noted that you have not read it. Because from patios, from proposals to eat children and children in school yards, it doesn't say much, because it doesn't say anything. [[Applause]] Well, the history of the German Women's and Science Program, in which I'm going to stop, is proof of absolute sectarianism in the matter of equality of the People's Party. You lack your own agenda and prefer to load a pioneer program because it was driven by a nationalist and socialist government. That is the explanation that for nine years of government, this program was left unchanged, uniquely and exclusively. And, well, the Socialist Party's voicer did a thorough analysis of the situation of diagnosing the situation of women in this area. And I'm going to remember a little bit of what I've been thinking about this program and what I'm suggesting the freezing of the People's Party. The I Greek Women's and Science Program 2008-2012 without a doubt, with its mistakes and successes, was an important and new step at the moment, which had several objectives. The first of them, and most importantly, is to make the situation in its fair dimension known about the inequality of access, treatment and recognition of women in science and technology, because what is not visible, of which it is not spoken, does not exist. And secondly, to put in place a battery of initiatives and actions aimed at achieving that greater presence of women in equal conditions in this field of science and technology. It was designed in the wake of the strategy recommended by the European Commission on Equality, Gender Mainstreaming, i.e. gender transversality; not in vain was driven by Vice-Presidentship and by Industry to overcome this hermitism and that corsetation of equality policies only in the areas of equality and bet on transversality, that is, what the Government does not do. The programme intended, through specific support, to reverse this disadvantage situation and to contribute to changing certain issues in this area, a programme which, as I said, started in 2008 after a major analysis work with the sector, in addition, and which was initially to 2012. What happened? For in 2009 he came to rule the People's Party willing to climb with everything, only by political sectarianism. So, first, they didn't develop it, they didn't develop all the issues planned until 2012, they didn't even change them for others to fit their ideas. Second, they didn't evaluate it, today there's no evaluation of the German Women's and Science Programme. And third, they pretended not to continue, because I am convinced that this was their intention, but that fortunately, thanks to the work of the opposition, if they were forced to yield, just as thanks to the results of March 8 last if they are now forced to try to reach some approach, though their amendment is absolutely partial. And look, fifteen days ago, in one of those hypocrisy exercises of the People's Party, when he talks about equality, you talked here about my admired and dear companion Carmen Adán. And the truth is, I can't stop doing this too, because if there are two questions in which Carme Adam worked long and tender, one of them was all about the violence that was macho and that wage for freedom that we talked about fifteen days ago, but the other was this program. Teimotly, over and over again, Carmen Adam insisted in this House that you revitalize this program and not condemn it to ostracism. To such an extent that — I suppose a little boring to listen to — you have adopted an initiative to draft the second edition of this program in November 2014, November 2014. It's two years behind what they should have done. But not happy, they did what the People's Party does with the initiatives, try to see if they're delayed in time, if they don't have to do them, and so on. Until, we don't know very well that winding blow sold on this side of the bench and two days from finishing 2016 Mr. Feijóo, that gentleman of the sentinel, for he presented a Plan 2016-2020. He could have sneezed a bit and done already 2017-2021, as he does with concerts at the segregationist centers, but he wasn't generous. So if we recompiled, first you broke the plan, then you had this country four years without any specific plan for this area and now you have a program, too, with many shortcomings. They haven't done that evaluation of the previous results, they haven't done any ex ante evaluation, which is what is done when there's a sense of innovation, which is to evaluate the context in which you want to intervene. We don't know the budgets, from this group we ask again and again about Gain's appearances this year as well as the last two years of the Industry Councillor, and he had nothing to say, and he has clearly set targets. For example, there is a wage gap target for 2020 of 20.5%, only two points below the 2014 reference level. I mean, for you, it's enough that in six years, the pay gap in the field of technology is reduced by two points. Look, I'm done with a statement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u183	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u184	Two literal lines from the I plan of the Greek woman and science, which is the only one you keep in the II plan. "Only lawfully proclaim equality between women and men is insufficient to allow women to occupy their positions by virtue of merit and scientific quality." This is the only one who took advantage of a plan that was referencel and that you refused to develop and evaluate. So you apply not only the sentinel, but the rectification, because it is necessary a commitment from the Greek Government that during these nine years, which should be embarrassing them, nine years, they didn't have. We will therefore vote in favour of the Socialist Party's initiative, which is very complete and which we want to recognize as positive, but, of course, we hope that they will not accept its amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u186	...that he has no single commitment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. It goes on that the Parliamentary Group of En Marea will support this non-law proposal which we consider, of course, very interesting, complete and necessary, every time it points to one of the multiple facets of inequality, such as that of the gender gap in science, which is far from diminishing, as it gathers quite recent news, in the years of crisis has sadly increased; less and less women in science, more and less women in scientific careers, every time, therefore less women in jobs than science. It could not be more relevant and necessary, whenever they still echo, at least for us, in this House, the words of the president of the board in the previous plenary saying that we already had more women in college than in vocational training. This was such a reason, it was a cause of joy, so, without nuances, and he said without doubt, purposely loaded with reasons, without questioning the bottom of the problem, which translucent the bottom of his words, that the technique is still their thing and the theory for them, for us. We're at the university, so there's no reason to complain, it seemed to say. Well, yes, I hope they'll pass the message to the president, there's a lot of cause for complaint, his words first. Because we don't want science for them and letters for us, we don't want technique for them and theory for us, we want everything for everyone. And for that, we need means, resources and commitments, and fewer empty words. They need examples, names, plausible references for all the children and children in this country, so that tomorrow's women know that they can be what they want, from math to astronomers, from cooks to scientists, from teacher to lawyer. Above all, free women, all for everyone. They need to know that it's not true that complicated things aren't for their mates, they're for everyone. As I have already commented in this House, a study published last year in Science magazine shows that girls learn these supposed differences already six years old, six years old, a real barbarity that we should cut. Six-year-old girls in schools have already learned the big lie, which are less competent, that are less ready, that their lower intellectual capacity can be supplied with more work and dedication. And so when we're six years old, how are we not going to have that terrible gap in scientific studies afterwards? It would be impossible not to happen if that's what's expected of them. The report Breaking down the keys and education of science and women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, developed by UNESCO, begins with words that we want to make ourselves today. Only 17 women have won the Nobel Prize in Physics, Chemistry or Medicine since Marie Curie did it in 1903, contrasting with 572 men, 17 versus 572 men, it's not bad! Today only 28 percent of the world's researchers are women. Such disparity, such deep inequality doesn't happen by chance. Too many girls are suppressed by discrimination, prejudice, social norms and expectations about them that influence the quality of education they receive and the subjects they study. I mean, we need an active school against inequality, always school. But there's more, because talking about women and science forces us, of course, to talk about scientific careers, about discrimination against women, about constant pitfalls in women's careers. The fact is that these traps begin at the zero moment of the application, at that time when a potential applicant decides to opt for any research contract and has to cover the name and sex, then it all begins, as evidenced by numerous reports, and a well-known one, the so-called Jennifer and John; a 2012 study on antifeminine bias in science. I'll explain briefly what it was. In this study, two curricula were presented identical to 167 independent evaluations. Identical, because the only difference between them was name and sex, one of them was Jennifer and the other was John. The conclusions were demolition. John was better rated on all items, better valued and potentially better paid, since one of the issues that was being studied was how much they would be willing to pay the different research teams to these aspirants. In all the analyzed cases John would potentially get 20 percent more salary, when, as I said, they were exactly identical curricula. Unfortunately, Jennifer and John didn't stay in that study, the differences are here in all the scientific centers in this country, and they're demolitional to women. As for Maria de la Fuente, a researcher at the CHUS, who yesterday accompanied us in Parliament, who was discriminated against by being evaluated in order to rise to the category. In this evaluation it was not taken into account because it is not considered to be low on maternity; therefore, its scientific and academic production has decreased. Of course, nothing new. Women constantly see our professional aspirations limited by trying to reconcile our personal and work life. It's a paradox that this happens in a place like Galicia. On the one hand, the Government of the United States says it intends to act to put a stop to our minute demography, but on the other hand, what it can do, in jobs directly linked to the administration, punishes women who decide to form a family. For all this, as I said, we will support the Socialist Party's non-legislative proposal, whenever we consider it a first step to improve the role of women in science, a fair and necessary first step because the inequality that persists in access to technical and scientific careers is not only a labour issue, it is also, of course, something that affects women's own human rights. The equality of all people demands equal opportunities, including, of course, equal access to study and work in all fields of knowledge. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Motion author group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Presas and Mrs Chao for their support. And I want to tell you, Mrs. Presas, that I am very glad that I had named Mrs. Carmel Adam, because Mrs. Carmen Adam did know what she was talking about. Mrs. Carmele Adán, who was a magnificent secretary of equality, has made a magnificent plan for the woman 2008-2012 — assisted by others. I realized how magnificent it was when I compared it with the People's Party. There's no... it's night and day, and I'm going to say why. Because you have absolutely concrete measures, things with schedule included, with budgets, you have to do this, this, and this to achieve this goal, and the other one has general ideas: to see if we make a pilot plan, you have to increase the number. And how? Oh, we don't know that anymore. Of course, we don't know about that. Mrs. García Míguez, I think you didn't listen to me, because I didn't talk about what you said. Nothing, nothing you said has anything to do with what I was proposing. I mean, I don't know, I try to have all the sense of the world. Well, all the sympathy you ask me for, but I don't know if your concept and notion of sentinel is, for example, that a president of a government, president of your party, say to the wage gap that we don't get into. That's certainly how sweet it must be. [[Applause]] Of course, exactly, this is the little sentinel. Well, look, this little sentinel doesn't want to have it, I prefer my little sentinel, which is trying to fix the problems, among them women, and also in this field of science, where you haven't done anything since 2009. I'm sorry, you know that I talked to you trying to reach a certain transaction, and all this will not be possible. The same amendment that you do with all these points indicates that you have very bad conscience, they indicate that you are absolutely aware that you have not done anything, but absolutely nothing, since the year 2009 in this field. But what it can't be, Mrs. Garcia, is that you demean all our requests. You know I offered you deadlines, even budgeting, but, of course, what can't be that you significantly deminuate everything we ask, because what you present here, Mrs. Garcia, is useless at all, because there's no... it's that I really, with no better intention! [[Applause]] Not with the best intention, with all these points, can we get somewhere, where? Nowhere. So, look, Mrs. García Míguez, I'm very sorry, and with much sympathy I tell you we can't accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. We shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u192	Before we begin voting, we greet our guests, who are the 5th and 6th students of the Quintela Primary Education College in Moaña. Welcome to Parliament. Welcome and welcome, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is the commitment that I have made in the first visit that has been made, that from now on we will give the name of the schools that visit us. [[Murmurs.]] It's the least you know who I am. So welcome and welcome. [[Applause]] We vote. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará. You do not accept the amendment, but if you accept the amendment add and you also accept that point 10. So we started by voting point 10. We vote. Voting of point 10 of the compromise text of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government for the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreements referred to in AP-9 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 10 of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u193	We now vote the rest of the points with the built-in addition amendment. Voting of the points not voted on in the compromise text of the G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government for the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreements referred to in AP-9 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u194	We now vote for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Chao. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. There is a compromise proposal, which is repeated from what was done with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and it is not accepted — or I understand that I did not accept — that of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Mr Marcos Cal Ogongo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of gender-based violence and equality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u195	And we now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Concepción Burgo. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to achieve equality between men and women in the fields of science, technology, research and innovation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u196	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and five other Members, on the conduct of management by the Galician Union in front of the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies in order to contribute to facilitating the processing, debate and approval of the general budgets of the State for 2018 within the established deadline
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u197	There are amendments from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Nationalist Block Galego and Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u198	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u199	Good afternoon, gentlemen. We bring from the People's Group a proposal not for a very simple but fundamentally political enunciation law. What we want... You don't listen. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u200	It must be a microphone problem. Stop it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u201	Obviously, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u202	No, no, go up the microphone, see if it's possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u203	I mean, are you listening now? No, no, no, no. I think you should adjust the volume to what you're talking about and not what you're talking about volume, I say. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] He said that since the People's Parliamentary Group, we have brought to plenary a proposal that is not a simple, easy, but politically sound rule. What we want is for the Galician Parliament to vote in favour of the adoption of State budgets by 2018. It is true that you have just announced your presentation at the Congress of Deputies. It is true that what is marked in the rules, starting with the Constitution, is that budgets must be presented in Parliament before 1 October. We all know that there has been a delay mainly due to the difficult situation in the Catalan Autonomous Community, and we know that, at the moment, we have not noticed the problem that causes the lack of budgets, among other things because last year's investments have already been approved at the end of June, with which they have only one year of vigilance yet and therefore the extension does not so much damage the state's investments. What we do know is that not having budgets is counterproductive and therefore it would be good for Congress to approve the accounts by 2018. And we believe it for a lot of reasons, but by summarizing it, we will say that there are three fundamental reasons, and that are the reasons for the request. First of all, a reason for political stability. If there is something that permeates everything that is the budgetary process and, therefore, all the economic and political effects that budget generates, it is precisely the idea of regularity. The budgetary cycle we all know is a regular cycle: elaboration, approval, execution and then closure and control, which, in addition, is adjusted over time, usually one year, although not in all countries is the natural year. It is true that there can be — and indeed it is — a diabolical situation in Congress, where there can be a majority against the approval of budgets, but at the same time there is no majority in favour of alternative budgets, with which the result may be paralysis, with the disastrous consequences that this may have for the whole economy and for citizenship in general. Obviously, approving budgets gives a signal to investors, both national and foreign, of stability and security. It gives an image that favors Spain's reputation, both around the European Union and around the international environment. And, therefore, it is a confidence instrument that strengthens GDP growth, solid GDP growth, consistent GDP growth, the largest of Europe's large economies, and therefore also strengthens the process of job creation and improving public services. And in addition, at a time when everyone agrees. All experts agree that one of the main weaknesses in the Spanish economy is debt and deficit, deficit control and, therefore, the reduction in public debt, in case, as some people act, a rise in the prices of money, interest rates. In general, it would be good to trust that budgets would be approved, including, among other things, a raise in public officials' salaries, after an agreement with the civil service trade unions; we're talking about an increase in three years around 8% if the government's economic forecasts are met. We're talking about some of the budgets that lower the IRPF into smaller incomes, that goes up to many people the minimum that is free from 12,000 to 17,000 euros; that include, among other things, social policies such as bonus to infant schools; that include one more week in the paternity permit, with which the sum of the two parents would be 21 weeks in total. It is expected that it will include aid to self-employed women who face maternity, at rates that allow for re-integration into activity or even a 100 % exemption from the quotas of self-employed women who take care of their children. We know that it is expected, among other things, to cover accidents on the way to self-government. Or, for example, it has also been announced on repeated occasions that cultural IVE has been discharged from 21% to 10%, a request which, by the way, this House has also supported. The second reason is because we believe it is beneficial for Galicia. Clearly, the Greek economy is growing well, growing and creating jobs. Consumer confidence in Galicia — we have just known the data — has grown significantly in the last year and very much since 2012. It is true that Galicia was the second autonomous community where unemployment was the lowest. It's true that we have 25,000 more members of Social Security in the past year. It is true that, slowly, more slowly than we wanted or desired, employment is growing and its quality; at present, three out of four people have an indefinite contract and nine out of ten full-time. And Galicia also plays a lot on the approval of budgets. First of all, by your deliveries. They are suspended, until the budgets are approved, the announced and incorporated in the Galician budgets, EUR 321 million. Secondly, because Galicia would be particularly benefited by the rise in minimum and widowhood pensions that have been announced. We're talking about 236,993 minimum pensions and 130,340 widowers, i.e., half of the pensions paid in Galicia. In addition, these people, who have the lowest incomes, where they also include pensioners I have just mentioned, would have access to a deduction that would extend up to EUR 17,000 — we're talking about 204,000 pensioners — the zero tax on the income tax of physical persons, which, in addition, according to what has been announced, would be a negative tax; the same way it occurs with maternity benefits in case of not having a return statement that would allow that return, what would be a check, giving a check, a contribution to these pensioners. And finally, by increasing the proportion of the deceased's salary to widows from 52% to 60%, 155,000 widows would see their pensions up. Something similar would happen to the dependents, since in the dependency system analysis commission if an increase in funding from 5.34% to Galicia was announced next year. Of course, the investments that affect us in the short term, from what is the reinforcement of the firms and the maintenance costs of the state roads to the non-saltation of the northern variant Ourense in A-56, as others in the longer term, such as the impulse of the new communication axes, A-76, A-74 (straight of the Navy in San Cibrao-Cervo). [[Ponferrada-Ourense]] And in recent years we have obtained investment rates in Galicia over the total of Growth higher every year of the crisis to 10%, and therefore it would be to break a trend that was good for Galicia. Other performances, such as in the environment, the dredge of the Burgo River. In education, students' scholarships go up. Or in employment; for example, the F-110 frigates that have been announced to Navantia -- we're talking about 7,000 jobs, a ten-year workload -- would also be slowed down, when not significantly delayed. And the third reason why we believe that this must be supported, that the State's budgets are adopted, is a basic political and democratic principle: the principle of annual approval of budgets, which is in all Spanish constitutions, from 1812 until the last, of 1978, with the exclusion only of the real Statute — which is certainly not a good background — is based on very solid democratic reasons. It is mainly about avoiding deviations from the temporal limits diffused in the application of public expenditure, and therefore what is involved is about strengthening legislation against the growing power of executives. We're talking about increasing transparency and control capacity, just as families and businesses adjust their budgets to the annual period, so public administrations do. And, therefore, the principle of annuality derives from the accounting principle, which is fundamental to control, which is that of closed exercise, which itself allows for accountability before citizenship and its representatives in parliamentary chambers. For these three reasons: because it strengthens stability, because it is good for Galician and Galician citizens, and because it is fundamentally democratic, we ask for some responsibility for Congress groups. In a parliamentary democracy the opposition has its responsibilities. If you are unable to make an alternative government that presents alternative budgets, you have the responsibility not to block the action of the Government. And for that, it has a very strong instrument, which is the capacity for political negotiation in the budgetary field. If the budgets are the accounting document in which the social group's political action plan is manifest, the opposition can condition it, it can negotiate it, it can compromise it and can bring forward some of the policies that propose, in return, logically, its support in the budgets. But what they can't do is block it, because ultimately the one who pays the consequences is citizenship, which has suffered a lot after the worst crisis the Spanish economy has suffered in the last 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u204	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u205	Good afternoon. Mr. Puy, the truth is that we came from the previous debate, from a debate about R+D+i, and to me the first thing that happens to me is to tell you that there really is something to recognize: you innovate, you innovate in political cynicism. Because, really, when we think we've seen it all before, you appear in an occurrence like this. Suddenly, they have an interest in state budgets, when less than a year ago they applauded with the ears — yes, you — the biggest cut you've ever experienced in recent history in this country as far as budgets. [[Murmurs.]] Less than EUR 1 billion in planned investments, a cut of 33%, more than EUR 400 million less in investments. [[Applause]] A new episode in which — oh, surprise! — being the most fulfilling community in deficit and debt, as Mr Feijóo takes us with his policies, has brought nothing good to this country in budgetary matters, because we live the cuts in Galicia and soon we live the large budget cuts by the state. Well, that's a deal! The truth is that it goes business, it goes business!, even more so when, indeed, we are at a time of not recession of the macroeconomic framework and when, indeed, we are at a time of increasing spending capacity, in large part because the collection has increased, and the collection also increases so that we pay the Greeks and the Greeks in our taxes, although it does not come here soon. With such an overview, to conceal the great occurrence that happened last year, or that Mr Feijóo had in solitary, it was that great commission to follow up the State budgets, which today we do not know if it exists, if it does not exist, or that it has concluded. Given the issues, a little less than a month ago, this parliamentary group brought up an inquiry to follow up on the degree of compliance of the state with Galicia, and you not only gave not just one data, but they made fun of it, they made fun that this parliamentary group had brought up a proposal for the House of Commons to make a series of specific requests to the Spanish State of issues that must meet with us, specific issues, not generalities, of which they approve the budgets and what it touches. And you made fun of it, and now they come here with two lines to take a look at Rajoy, ask the others to approve those budgets, and I suppose you expect us to say they're in line, when there's no concrete. In the debate with which we started this afternoon, Mr Bará asked them whether you were really from the same political group as your representatives in Congress, because the truth, listening to them here, gives the feeling that those who have no representation in Madrid are you, the lords of the People's Party, no matter how much later they mock others; it is that truth...! [[Applause]] Finally, I suppose it is that they do not listen to you, or that it is the same as when this Parliament demands a question from the Government of Madrid, which is that it has been more than any case, and that Mr Feijóo's pen weight because they take it quite well. I insist: we are surprised that you come here to tell us the kindnesses that will bring these new budgets and that you dare not raise a single specific question in your resolutive text that is asked for Galicia. I suppose they put the sale before the wound and, as you imagine, they won't listen to them, because they solve it like this, because it's complicated that they stay more with the ass than with the question of AP-9, but they can always surprise us. We, in our amendment, give them a few ideas, in case they want to take them, but I didn't want to mention any questions. In your initiative, you repeated, Mr. Puy, that these budgets are many of them dependent upon. That's the way it is. But do you know how I would improve, for example, the lives of people in this country who have dependent people? Not with the sun of increments of that contia, but only with the State paying Galicia those more than 150 million that it owes in terms of dependence, yet again failing to keep its word with this country. They also speak -- you didn't do it, but it appears in your initiative, and it's already the culmination of cynicism -- of masculine violence. Of course, it's up to you to make agreements that don't have budgetary concretions and that don't develop a single legislative measure to please us a few months ago and now they say that this depends on state budgets. No, what depends on the political will, what you lack. For example, specific questions, such as covering, could be asked to increase these accounts to cover the casualties in cases of violence against men. But they don't because their colleagues in Madrid are more busy inflating the defence budget than that. It's not a problem of lack of resources, it's political priorities. It surprises us, moreover — and I'm finishing up now — an interesting change of speech, isn't it? because here we saw what Adif himself was a few months ago that denied the People's Party of Galicia, saying that, regardless of whether there were budgets, it wouldn't be a reason for the delay of the AVE, and we see how they put the sale again before the wound. I suppose we'll have to wait for Adif to lie back. Or, for example, you refer to the dredging of the Burgo River, a dredging which had zero euros in the budgets this past year, and which from then on said the Environment Counsellor — if I may not remember, it was her — that this was independent of state budgets. It depends or does not depend on the dredging of the Burgo's stream of state budgets, because I see them a little confused. At least you've had something of a shame, Mr. Puy — I must admit — that it didn't show the "visit tour of millions" that we had from Mr. De la Serna today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u207	...because every time it's what they come to do, visits have turned around, promising questions eternally claimed by this House, such as that way between Lugo and Ourense, and that until we see the machines there we won't believe it. Or more determinations such as Mr. Núñez Feijóo's own assessment today in the public media of this country, who said that, of course, until the AVE had arrived between Lugo and Ourense would not be in conformity. Carai, nine years ago, they told us that if the state didn't do it, you would do it and claim the state bill. Finally, you are talking about democratic reasons. It was also possible, since you are also taking the issues relating to the financing system, because you say that for democratic reasons it will require the People's Party of Galicia, the People's Party of the State, which, for example, does not circumscribe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Presas, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u209	...the delivery of the account with the Community's debt with the budgetary debate, because you know it has nothing to do with it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u210	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It's not hard for me to adapt microphones to my height, it's an easy matter. [[Laughter]] In these days of fake news and posterity, Mr Puy, Members and Members of the People's Party, the truth is that we have recovered Baudrillard and history, the question of whitening history. Because, of course, we are before the typical simulation initiative. First, by Mr Montoro's press conference, which I imagine will give the 27th of March when I approve the budgets of the Council of Ministers, and you have literally brought us forward, which we thank you for; we have privileged information on the political decisions to be adopted at the Council of Ministers of the Government of Spain. Mr. Puy, you, who is very rigorous and academic, told us about all these measures, of a fundamentally socio-salarial nature, which will be resolved with the approval of the 2018 budgets. I believe you know perfectly well the agreement signed on December 29, 2017 by Montoro himself, in which the criteria for applying the extension for 2018, and the order published in the BOE on January 20, this year, which actually empowers the Government of the State, the Government of Spain, to, through real decrees, bring forward all that you have proposed here, all that you have proposed here. So, man!, it is good that they are hiding in this sort of post-vergence that they need support from the fact that I do not know that parliamentary groups in the Congress of Deputies to move forward the budgets. Look, the problem with this is that you are not credible, because when you talked about these three issues: political stability as a central element, the benefit for Galicia and for the Greeks and the Greeks, I'm going back to Montoro and I'm going back to May 2010: "let Spain fall, that we will already raise it." So, of course, if it turns out that at that time we were willing to be to Troika who had defined and decided the budgets of the Government of Spain to reach the Government the People's Party, who now come to us with this kind of budgetary purity, it turns out to me at least surprising, painful, and of course it seems antipatriotic; but it must be that I have a tight patriotism. [[Applause]] Of course, you have a problem, you have a problem, especially because Citizens said that they would support Rajoy's budgets if they stopped supporting the corrupt. And we have "pays in difference", and we have "Luis, be strong", and we have "M. Rajoy", and now we have grenades and all the absolute garbage surrounding the People's Party of Madrid and Valencia. We have the only party — I think this time — that can talk about corruption coming to the issue, because I insist: the fundamental condition of the Group of Citizens to support the budgets of the year 218 at the Congress of Deputies was the fight against corruption. So for once it looks like I can, I'll do it. So this concept of circular economy -- the hard disks of computers, instead of resetting them, breaks them to hammers -- which is always good for them to take advantage of when they talk about this in the climate change strategy, because that's what it takes. This situation leads you to have a real problem, a problem of credibility in the Congress of Deputies. They have that problem, Mr. Puy, and they have an absolutely opaque negotiation with the Basque Government, with the PNV, with respect to the Basque cup, so that they also support those budgets, and I imagine something very similar in the case of the canaries. So, in the end, it was that Catalan in the intimacy that Aznar spoke, also exactly for the same, so that the budgets would be approved, in this case Convergence i Unió, which were therefore those friends of the 3%, that we all know also where they were. And in view of this, Mr. Puy, we have a country that is becoming a low-cost country, a fragmented country, a country where there are, indeed, high-income and high-wage social groups, advanced technology sectors, which compete internationally without any problems, but where most stay out of that competition and out of that general framework. And the amendment that we put forward by the socialists has to do with something that is almost a slogan, but which I believe perfectly with what we want to express: we cannot have services like Denmark and have taxes like Latvia. And that's what we've been thinking here: to increase tax revenues from now on and to increase public spending. We believe that it is the only way that this country can effectively compete internationally, can improve wage levels, improve the participation of wages in the gross domestic product and, of course, allow citizens of this country to come out of a situation of absolutely intolerable inequality. And I'm just going to talk about a specific subject -- the amendment is there -- about the subject of education. The Socialists raised a discussion table on a text, an education agreement, because we said we wanted 5% of the GDP devoted to education. You're at 4,1 percent. The documents sent to Brussels speak of 3.8%, 3.7% and 3.6% over the next three years. And, unfortunately, that is perpetuating inequality, Mr. Puy. And you know why? Because in school leaving early in 10% of the poorest population, 50% of the children leave before completing their studies, while in 10% of the highest income only leaves 10%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u213	50% against 10%, Mr. Puy. That's what we're talking about, and that's what, of course, is the society and economy that's building the Spanish right. And, of course, they won't count on the Socialist Party to wash their faces. Although it is also true that you are there because there were others who preferred Mr. Rajoy to rule over Mr. Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u214	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u215	Good afternoon. The initiative we are debating today could seem to be an insubstantial triviality that could be taken as an occurrence without any further progress. But it is not because it is such a disparity that, if you finally go ahead, it will entail a severe deterioration in the respectability of the Government of Greece and this Parliament, the House where the sovereignty of our people resides. We are already accustomed to the popular party to distorting the role of Parliament, especially what it has to do with its role of control over the Government. In every plenary session we attend the alleged questions of Members of the People's Group who, of course, have no purpose to control the action of the Union but to glorify its action; questions that, as the elections approach, are increasingly used to attack municipal institutions, in an exercise of a lack of institutional respect. The People's Group and the Union distort the control role that Parliament has — to control the Executive — because they do not answer the questions that we ask the opposition groups repeatedly. Even more, his parliamentary strategy is to be the opposition. But this initiative goes further, moving on a path of contempt for this House that we cannot accept. Because what the People's Group wants us to vote today is that Parliament urges the Government of Greece to address the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies to tell them how their opposition must be done, whether or not. To make it clear, what the People's Group is going to vote is for the Galician Parliament to go to the Confederal Group of En Marea-Unions. We can, the Socialist Group, the Pdecat and the Republican Left of Catalonia to tell you what to do in Congress of Deputies in front of the PP Government. An budget, Mr. Puy, which does not exist, which makes that task even more difficult for you to carry out, that charge that you want to do to the Government. Mr. Puy, I'm going to ask you a question: will you really talk to Albert Rivera, to ERC, to Bildu, to Compromise, to Yolanda Díaz, to Fernán Oldo, to tell you how to vote in the Congress of Deputies? Are you really going to be able to materialize this proposal and humiliate this House? Is it really going to make us go through the booze and the extreme ridicule of formally addressing Congress groups to tell them what to do? Don't do it. Of course, don't do it in our name. Mr. Puy, it shouldn't be so hard to understand that a chascar that serves for a rally can't be turned into a non-law proposition in a parliament worthy of this name. They do not humiliate the House, they do not despise this institution, they do not devalue the Parliament of Galicia. The People's Group, with this initiative, shows that it still does not understand the mechanisms of democracy, the rules of democracy. Who has the responsibility to rule is the Government, who opposes the opposition. I'm not able to understand that in an advanced democratic system there is a division of powers and that everyone has their responsibilities: the Executive Governor and Parliament are in control of the government's action. All this is not lost in this initiative, because if it is of any use it is to demonstrate the despair of the People's Party, which has to ask the opposition groups in Congress of Members to approve the budget. If anything proves that we have a central government in a catatonic state, dejected, isolated, unable to reach agreements, a useless government, paralyzed, who doesn't want to hear the demands of citizenship even though we will scream at them, as was the feminist tide on 8 March and the pension tide on 17 March. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] A Government paralytic demonstrating the falsity of the speech that governs the most voted list; that governs the most voted list does not mean that there is a majority parliamentary. And what we have is a minority government that is only able to maintain itself thanks to parliamentary filibusterism to veto the opposition initiatives, with the support — yes — of the modern right of citizens. I'm done. We do not want the German Parliament to be humiliated, we do not want, we respect the German Parliament. And in that sense we offer them a replacement amendment: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Greece to address the Government of the State to request the submission of a draft general budgets of the State which includes measures to achieve a consensus agreement that facilitates its approval, which, at least, must contain the following measures: the increase in contribution pensions of 2.1%, the significant increase in funds for self-financing and a significant increase in investment figures." Mr. Puy, for the most part they have, do not humiliate the Parliament of Galicia, because here lies the sovereignty of our people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u216	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Mr. Lago, I would ask if we can remove the expression "autist".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u217	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u218	Thank you. That expression is withdrawn. Mr. Puy, author group of the non-law proposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u219	Thank you very much. There's a phrase -- it's a definition of Wagensberg, of democracy -- that says you can't live in a democracy without contradictions, but you can try to live with the minimum possible. Mr. Lago, you say that this is something that is humiliating to Parliament and you come and you give me an amendment in which you ask me to address the Government so that I make the assumptions as you want; that is to say, with a plugin: that no opposition group — that everyone amends by asking long letters to the Magi Kings — among other things, Mr. Lago, what he presents to us is a new union agreement after the Government is going to incorporate into the budgets the agreement it has reached with Working Committees, UXT and the civil service unions to raise the salaries of public officials. [[Applause]] Finally, I insist: try to live with fewer contradictions, because to me it seems quite contradictory. I don't know if you know... because here, how can you say what you want... Well, I wanted to need something. I strongly recommend that you read the Venice Commission report on what is the role of an opposition to democracy. The Venice Commission — which you quote every time we talk about corruption — expressly says, among other things, that "the responsibility of all the parties represented is to contribute constructively and loyally to the political process and not" — literally — "to perceive its role as a mechanism of mere obstruction, and must contribute to the adoption of public decisions". That's what's happening at the Congress of Deputies. Therefore, lessons from democracy, few. Mr. Lake, I'm sorry to tell you that, but few. And, of course, humiliating this House, none. I'm not going to bite the apple of going in to see who else humiliates this House, of course. [[Applause]] I don't know if the Block Spokesman knows exactly what cynicism is. Cynism is lying with shame; I, of course, did not lie with shame here. And it could also be in his philosophical perception that conventionalisms are rejected; I think that in that you are much more cynical than we, that we are a quite conventional party for the rest, don't you? But anyway, I want to remind you that this is what you said to the minister, it makes me funny, because it's 19 million people who leave the BOE today for Alfonso Molina Avenue in the Coruña. And so, finally, that's in the BOE, that's no imagination. A brief answer. Mr. Losada, you've been criticizing the Government of the People's Party for years because it legislates by royal decree, and now what it tells us is that the People's Party has to do is to get all these things out by real decree. Let's see, I insist: you can live with contradictions but with the minimums possible. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I just want to say one thing, because I think it's a timely and timely comment to the current political situation. The opposition—the less loyal opposition, which blocks action and does not propose an alternative government, which is what it had to do— is constantly saying that the People's Party does not care or cares about families, that it does not care about pensions, that it does not care about the elderly, that it does not care about women, that it does not care about women victims of gender violence. And when the People's Party brings a budget where pensions are raised — particularly the lowest — where the pensions of the widowed women — are the lowest — where funds are improved for the fight against gender violence, where student scholarships are improved, etc., etc., so at that time you block budgets. With which, as there are no budgets and you can't make the spending that improves pensions, the problem is that PP is against pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u220	Finish, please. The amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u221	Look, I think that vicious circle will be unmasked sooner or later. But I would be willing — and with this I conclude, because I have to stand on the amendments — to accept any of the amendments, and in their entirety, which present me to the opposition groups. The PSOE has 85 seats, we approve this amendment and incorporate these budgets; I'm sure Mariano Rajoy will take care of the budgets if we include the things that the Socialist Party proposes. Or can we accept those of the Marea; they have five Members — the same as the PNV —; would the Marea be willing to support the budgets if we accept what the amendments make? Maybe it would be interesting to check it out, but no one offered it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u222	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u223	The Block can only offer me the two seats EH Bildu has. I think we can't even negotiate there that the state budgets vote in Congress. In any case, we trust that we will continue with stability, with growth and with the support of those who need it most.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u224	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u225	Then we must insist on the budgets of the People's Party that will be approved in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u226	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the effective legislation on labour and the protection of the public pension system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u227	There is a self-amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u228	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u229	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to greet the pensioners of the group of pensioners at the IGC who accompany us in the rostrum of invited persons and I would like to acknowledge the immense work they have done for years in defense of the public pension system; a work of information, a work of denunciation of the theft that was supposed to involve the working class the work reforms that have been approved since 2010 and 2011, without going further, not signing agreements that meant treason to the working class, as it is being demonstrated. And in that objective of defending decent public pensions, nearly a year ago, in June 2017, coincided with a non-legislative proposal that BNG defended in this Parliament, the IGC also presented here in Parliament 14,000 signatures in defense of the public pension system. And also in that work, since 2014, when the People's Party Government began sending massive letters to pensioners reporting the 0.25% increase, IGC pensioners campaigned to return those letters. I have here one, dated March 13, 2014, in which they already answered the minister by saying, "In response to your letter, in which I am informed that my pension for this year 2014 increases by 0.25%, I want to inform you that with this measure you are unfairly contributing to my impoverishment, and to the rest of the Greek pensioners, because the demanding increase that announces me departs disproportionately from the IPC provided by your own government. So by the end of this year, I will be, with this re-evaluation, automatically, at least 1.25% poorer." He asked the Minister to say that this agreement was incorporated through a report on the evaluation and reform of the Toledo Pact adopted by the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies in January 2011. With this I mean that the fight against the deterioration of the public pension system is from a distance, just as it comes from a distance from the attack on the public pension system and the attack on public services in general. And with this initiative, the BNG today wants to give this debate about the pension situation, about the open debate about the viability of the pension system, the threats to which it faces and the official, informal, half-truthed and half-truthed lies, which some seem to have just discovered, and others are increasing in that escalation perfectly magnified by some media. What is evidence is, for years, they've been predicting the breakdown of the pension system, promoting private systems managed by banks and private funds. They need to frighten public opinion by presenting as inadmissible the public pension system. And the reason is very simple: on the one hand, the interest in cutting down the Public Service and, on the other hand, in transferring to the private system the management of a formidable volume of capital derived from public pension funds. The reasons presented are that life expectancy increases progressively while there are fewer contributors due to the fall of the active population. Simple ideas, repeated machaconically so that they enter the fire directly into the population and it seems as irremediable that the roadmap that presents us seems inevitable and that we assume this situation critically. From this idea they extend the social alarm by claiming that in the long term there will be no money to pay the pension system. And the objective is clearly: to promote the privatization of pensions, to enable financial capital to manage savings from private pension funds to global financial markets. For this they need to deteriorate the labour system and for this they have been approving the different labour reforms. With regard to the public pension system, the retirement age is 67 years behind, the number of years to calculate the regulatory base is 25 years behind the application of the sustainability factor as at 1 January 2019, the age of access to early retirement, the pension reserve fund is looted. And while they comply with the orders of the masters of the European Union, they protect the evasion of capital, corruption, subsidize the Church, rescue the bank, highways, increase the profits of companies while reducing their obligations and continue the ferocious attack on the working class. And this at general level, but these measures in Galicia are still much smaller. Why? Because we have the lowest pensions in the Spanish state, a higher percentage of pensioners in relation to our population, and pensions are the only income in many homes. We have a higher impoverishment of pensions — almost 60% of the pensions in Greece are below the minimum wage — the average is more than 15 points below the state and it is particularly worrying about the situation of women, 1 out of 4 women over 65 is below the poverty line. The German pensioners lose 2,145 euros a year, which is a really astronomical amount. That's why the BNG is presenting this initiative today, an initiative that has a structural part, because we consider that, of course, in the face of a structural problem, it is not worth patchwork, but structural measures must be put in place. And the first step is to derogate from the labour reforms, the first step is to derogate labour reforms — it is essential to do so — and the adoption of a new labour and social legislation that replaces lost rights as a result of successive labour reforms, which favours new rights and regulations that improve living and working conditions and strengthen the working class against the interests of capital, an obvious, simple and clear issue. Either we're going to a structural reform or the rest will be patched up. We've seen him claiming for a long time, but this is the only way. What's the next move? The recognition of the right to ordinary retirement, at least at the age of 65, does not believe that working for more years is the way; to establish the calculation in the regulatory basis for the contribution bases for a period of fifteen years of working life, and that elects the worker or worker who best suits him, that the worker or worker may choose the years of contribution that most suit him in order to be able to access a decent pension; to set the minimum amount of the pension equivalent to 60% of the average wage, so we would be in a pension, at least, of EUR 1,090; to establish the annual update based on the IPC, not to be losing purchasing power each year; to eliminate penalties and discrimination in access to pensions for persons employed in part-time, which are mainly women and not by our own will, not because they choose women to have part-time contracts, but because they are the only contracts offered to them and because, in addition, as in most cases, they have on their costs, we have to do the greatest redemptions, to them. And then there's another part, because we made a self-amendment and we have initiatives presented in this direction. It seems to us that, in addition to laying down duties on the Spanish Government, which is the one who has to do so, there is a part that corresponds here to the Greek Government. And it's part of non-contributory pensions. We tabled an amendment to increase the extraordinary fund of beneficiaries of non-contributory benefits and pensions so that each of these perceived persons would increase by 100 euros a month. We're not talking about any Asian luxury, we're talking about increasing pensions by EUR 369.9 per month by EUR 100, so we can have a pension that doesn't even reach the 500; that is, 369 plus 100 plus, four hundred and peak euros seem to us to be the least we can have. Because, besides, let's go back to it, we're basically talking about women who have non-contributory pensions. Why? Because they joined the labour market late. Why? Because in a very important part they found themselves — especially in the conservation and other types of work — that after working for a lifetime, when they were claiming their pension, they had not paid a single year for them, or they had paid so little that with successive labour reforms they had no right to a contribution pension. It's a question of social justice for many people, but mainly for women. And we're not talking about Asian luxury. In this case you can do it, we've already considered it in the budget process and we bring it back here today, because — I insist — it's a minimal issue mainly with women. Hartazgo, the limit situation and prospects for the black future are taking thousands of pensioners out of the streets. If anyone thinks this is just a matter of a 0.25% rise, he'll be wrong and he won't understand anything. The crisis has been used as an excuse for reforms that not only reduce pensions present, but will reduce future pensions, and are condemning the working class...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u231	...not only to some working conditions present of misery, but they want them to be sentenced to future pensions, of course, of more misery. On what it's going to depend and on what it depends on BNG, we're going to do everything possible and impossible because this doesn't happen. I look forward to voting in favour of the groups here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. "The public authorities shall ensure, by appropriate and periodically updated pensions, the economic adequacy of citizens during the third age. Even so, and regardless of family obligations, they will promote their well-being through a system of social services that will address their specific health, housing, culture and leisure problems." As you know, it's Article 50 of the Spanish Constitution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I can look anywhere, can't I? Or is it forbidden? Oh, sorry, I thought it was something that wasn't right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I can look at our guests. Welcome and thank you for being here today. The Toledo Pact, in 1995, was set up as a mechanism for defending the social security system, primarily to analyse the structural problems of the social security system, the main reforms that should take place in the following years to ensure the viability of the public pension system and to avoid further deficits in the state budget. The proposals of this Toledo Pact were the separation and clarification of sources of funding, the creation of the Social Security Reserve Fund, the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions and the strengthening of the principle of contribution as a basic element for the preservation of the financial balance of the system, among others. This system has allowed the Social Security Reserve Fund to increase by over 66,000 euros in a decade. It is true that with the crisis the forecasts have been altered by the fall in employment and the fall in the number of contributors, which during the years 2011 to 2014 have been reduced by more than 450,000 taxpayers throughout the state. I would like to recall that in the interview given by Mr. Mariano Rajoy during the first interview of the election campaign, on November 5, 2011, he said textually: "I will weave all but education, health and pensions." But the reality is that the employment policies that they have done have been a precaution of employment, and they have been taken by the People's Party; for example, wage devaluation — a bet on job precariousness. Between 2011 and 2016, the number of taxpayers is increased by 1%, but the rate is reduced by 1.6%. That's no less than precarious work. There is a reduction in the coverage rate for unemployment, a failure to comply with the guidelines of the Toledo Pact — which the PP voted favourably — by increasing the number and content of the reductions in contributions, which are assumed directly by the social security budget and not by the State budget. What was the result? Structural deficit in Social Security accounts. Look, this is the painting. In 2012 more than 10 billion euros; in 2017, 18,800 million euros. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows graphics from the panel of speakers.]] In other words, in five years nearly 9,000 million euros are increased. This background has been compensated... okay, don't come around here to make time pass. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's say what we mean. This was compensated with massive withdrawals from the reserve fund, which I told them earlier. And here's the painting, too. That is, in six years, the reserve fund goes down in almost 59,000 million euros, 59,000 million euros! Therefore, the policies of the People's Party give us the result that, as a society, we have a fundamental problem, a fundamental problem that the People's Party wants to rebalance by cutting pensions. The People's Party is not concerned about the impoverishment of pensioners, it is not concerned about the progressive loss of the purchasing power of pensioners. It adopts a 0,25 % sustainability factor which will mean that in ten years pensioners, with an estimated 2 % inflation, lose at least 17.5% of the actual purchasing power. And the PP favors private retirement schemes, which is what you're looking for. [[Applause]] The PP is looking for what it beats in its ideology, or more or less, it seeks a more unequal, more unequal society. The PP conceives pensions as spending and not as a right, and wants them to pay the services to those who have purchasing power to pay them and the rest to return to the one-time, to charity. That's the People's Party system. But I remind you that today there are 9 million pensioners — you can give your head whatever you want, Mr. Alberto Pazos — and in the street all pensioners are going out claiming justice and so they can comply with what you don't want to do because they don't believe in it. You see pensions as spending and not a right. Look, public pensions have for many years constituted the income of a large number of people, of citizens in our country. And in the years of crisis they acted as vertebrate elements of society allowing cohesion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u235	...of citizenship. It accords with its ideology, the People's Party did what it did was, on the one hand, approve the Royal Decree 16/2012, of pharmaceutical co-op, with a reduction — eight euros less per month — the adoption of continuous decrees-laws by those who eliminated medicines from the pharmaceutical catalogue of Social Security, with full payment of the cost of these medicines — another reduction —...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u237	...the hardening of the conditions of access to retirement and, finally, Law 23/2013. As time is short, it doesn't give me time to go on, but you can look at the memory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u239	...of the Ombudsman of 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u240	Thank you. Quiet, please! It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u241	I'd ask them, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u242	Finish it now, please, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u243	I'm done right now. But I ask you to look at the memory of the 2017 Ombudsman, who has been published these days and which goes in the same direction as I just exposed them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u244	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u245	First of all, a greeting to the group of pensioners of the IGC, and also a recognition to all the people of the Greek pensioners who during these times of crisis have stretched out their pension the unspeakable, not only to survive them, but also to support many people, daughters or grandchildren who have been unemployed, thus covering a gap that the social state leaves. Because we're talking about it, because we're talking about whether you want to eliminate the social state, whether you want to open a large private business with private pension funds. That's what we're talking about as a whole when we question the viability of public pension systems. And right now, that we are theoretically at an elevated stage of the economic cycle, since 2014, just when it would be time to recover stolen rights, it turns out that this campaign against public pension systems again. We have reached the point where we can see that the Government itself and the representative of the PP in the Committee on Follow-up to the Toledo Pact are encouraging it to save itself for private pension plans. What does that mean? It means that the powers of the State are certifying the failure of the State, which has the constitutional obligation — as has already been stated here — to guarantee decent retirements with periodicly updated pensions. But, finally, little did the patriots of 155 care to violate the Constitution with the reforms that were being pushed by the excuse of the crisis, all — not just the reforms that have to do with pensions — tending to cut rights and undermine the public sector. With these reforms, of course, they have been able to deepen the already disastrous consequences of the crisis rather than the beatings. Thus, the retirement age was raised, extended the period of contribution and even eliminated the re-valorization of pensions according to the IPC, despite violating the Constitution. Because it's not only about Article 50 being violated, but also because the reform affects pensions that were caused prior to regulatory change. But finally, the reality was that the system was viable, because it had surpluses. It came to have, this famous reserve fund, €65,830 million. What happened to the crisis? The crisis has happened with what we already know: the brutal loss of jobs and the great fall in wages — especially since 2012 with the job reform — which has reduced the contributions, dropped the income of the system, generated this deficit in Social Security and made massive use of the reserve fund. This isn't the most serious thing, too. The most serious thing is that in 2014-2015, even if you enter -- as I said -- at that high economic cycle stage, if you start, then creating jobs and contributions are still unrecoverable. And why? Among other things, because that terrible job reform continues to take effect, because precariousness has been installed. And with such precariousness it is impossible for contributions to increase. In the face of this situation, we defend it with banners — of course, it seems that it does not like to defend itself with banners, and it is also a democratic element of social protest — we defend the public pension system with banners. But we also defend it with legislative and financial proposals that guarantee its viability. In this sense, the proposals that the Galician Nationalist Block collects in this GNP we fully share, we have them also registered in our bill in Congress and coincide with a series of bills that we have brought forward — all vetoed, by the Government of the PP—. But let's add some more that has to do with funding. Because in the debate of public pension systems, in the debate in the Spanish State about them, there is a fundamental question: the problem is not the expenditure, it is not the excess of expenditure, the problem is the lack of income. And in that sense we absolutely agree with the necessary derogation from labour counter-reforms. That will, of course, raise the income of the system through the means of quote. We also need to have active employment policies, and to increase public employment, which would also immediately raise the income of the system. But we also need to increase income through taxes and link the system's funding to the general government budgets. And there is room for it, because it is well known — and I have repeatedly denounced it — that the Spanish State is one of the least fiscal pressures of the European Union and also one of the least social investments it does. Only in pensions, the Spanish State, 10.8% of GDP; eurozone, 13.6%. There's leave to do it. You have to increase your income by other ways too. If it had been necessary, with taxes on the bank, that which the pensioners and the Greek pensioners also gave him so much money without the possibility of recovering them; or also the way to end the tax benefits to private pensions. Only in this concept would the State have some 2,000 million more, which is how much, more or less, it would be able to re-evaluate pensions according to the IPC. There they are, the banners also have real alternatives and the accounts they ask us so many times. Other accounts: increase income by eliminating the maximum premium for higher wages, higher than EUR 3,751 per month. By the way, top frozen this year despite the fact that if the minimum base was increased by the Government. In this way, the less ambitious calculations speak of EUR 4 billion plus just on this issue. I mean, there's alternatives, there's the ability to increase the system's income. And this is fundamental in a situation like Galician, with pensions of misery -- it has been exposed here -- with 56% of the Greek pensions under the SMI, which is intolerable. And much worse is for women. In this sense, it is fundamental in Galicia to raise minimum pensions. We also agree with that BNG proposal. And as for the EUR 100 proposed for non-contributory pensions, we agree but it is insufficient. We're working on a Welsh income model that allows you to supplement the incomes of those under that 60% of the average salary, whether pensioners or not. And to finish with, we also recommend to the People's Party, as did the representative of the Socialist Party, that report by the Ombudsman of the People, which considers unconstitutional that lack of appreciation for pensions. But finally, we are not going to rule the coup of the Constitutional Court, which, moreover, only serves to shield the damaging reforms that the PP does. We're going to rule thinking about what our model is, whether it's a model of solidarity or a model of saving who can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u246	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. He spoke a few moments ago here not to humiliate the Galician Parliament. And a press headline from right now, from newspaper La Voz de Galicia, says: "They identify a Member of En Marea in a gang suspected of smashing cars.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I hope we're given some kind of explanation. Indeed, I insist on your argument: try not to humiliate this Parliament. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think, speaking of pensions, we were doing here an exercise of unprecedented historical dismemberment. The Socialist Party spoke of these cuts, and I have to send them back to the press. Look, it's from 2011: "The pension agreement gives way to a great social pact" in the newspaper El País. "The unions and the government — Zapatero — achieve a text that cuts the income to the retired futures and delays the retirement age at 67." Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, of course, logically, if you don't read the papers, you won't know that last week the President of the Government appeared at the Congress of Deputies to talk about this very subject. Look, the demagogy and opportunism of this initiative, I think it's out of the question. But I want to thank the Galego Nationalist Block for presenting it, because it is certainly a great opportunity to demonstrate the commitment, our commitment, the commitment of the People's Party, to our national pension system. It is an opportunity to reiterate in this House the announcement that the President of the Government made last week at the Congress of Deputies. I didn't hear anyone talk about him that way. Look, from the Spanish Government, we're going to do our best — the president announced — to maintain and revitalize our pension system. Above the table is a proposal made by President Mariano Rajoy to increase pensions, increase lower pensions and increase widow's pensions. We're going to do this through the state's general budgets for 2018 and we're also going to do it by concentrating the IRPF's tax aid on two collectives, on families and on pensioners, exempting pensioners who cover less than EUR 17,000 from the IRPF payment. They will have occasion in this parliamentary procedure to portray themselves and show whether their commitment to pensioners is real or simply a mouthpiece in this room. It's true that BNG can't do it, but they can always talk to Bildu's friends and make them the ones who express in Congress of Deputies the feeling of the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, our national pension system is the product of a pact, an intergenerational pact and a political pact, which is the Toledo Pact. By reading the BNG initiative and the amendments of the rest of the opposition groups — and the self-amendment of the BNG itself, an improvised self-amendment — we believe that they take this subject very little seriously. And it's a relevant topic. They frivolize and use this issue electorally, which should not be part of the debate between parties but should be a result of the agreement and consensus. I'm not trusting those who have simple solutions for such complex problems as this. We, however, have to say that we are credible when we talk about pensions, we are credible because we shield pensions. Yes, yes, Mrs Rumbo, we shielded pensions at the worst moment of the crisis. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we're going to be the ones who are now updating pensions, especially the lowest and the lowest pensions. Here we didn't go down pensions, you got them down in Portugal. You ruled there and you lowered them between 15% and 25%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u248	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u249	They dropped them in Greece by 40%. We don't go down pensions. We update them every year. I wish the Socialist Party could say the same thing. Look, with us increased spending on pensions in our country from 95,000 million euros in 2010 to 139,000 million euros in 2017. We said we wouldn't touch pensions and we didn't, Mrs. Rumbo. See, the average pension in 2010 was EUR 884 per month; in 2017, EUR 1,070 per month. The average pension of the new pensioners, who now enter the system, in 2010 was EUR 1,150; and in 2017 it is EUR 1,400 per month. We don't believe in simple solutions for complex problems, and this is a complex issue, pensions account for 40% of the general government's spending, and today we have 10.5 million pensioners, but within twenty-five years we're going to have 15 million pensioners. Let's take this debate seriously, be proud of our national pension system, build it among all with everyone's effort, and our obligation is to guarantee viability and its sustainability. That's why you didn't speak at all. Look, do you know how to lick our national pension system? Creating employment, increasing the number of social security contributors. And so we can't accept lessons from who destroyed 3,800,000 jobs. No, no, because you know what? Thanks to this work reform that at the same time demonizes — yes, since their parties used it whenever they had to fire their staff — thanks to that work reform that you demonise, they created in the last year 600,000 jobs; in the previous year 400,000 jobs; in 2015, another 400,000; and in 2014, another 400,000. A total of 1,800,000 jobs created through this job reform.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u250	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u251	Social Security taxpayers is what our national pension system needs. Gentlemen, when you talk about pensions, they're very bad. But when they talk about jobs, they get much worse. You're right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u253	Look, we're worried about our grandparents' pensions, our parents' pensions, but we're more concerned about our children's pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u254	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u255	And that's why we think any change in the system has to guarantee its viability, its sustainability, and it has to be consensual within the Toledo Pact. It's true that the BNG isn't, it's not expected, because the Greeks didn't want it. What we expect is that they don't present these initiatives by playing with people's interests. Because, when we have to guarantee our biggest pensions, there's always a government of the People's Party that's going to be there. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u256	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u257	Look, Mr. Tellado, the BNG is and is waiting. Not only do we play electoralism. We are, we have votes or not. We've been in 2014, in 2012, in the previous one, and we're going to continue to be and you're telling pensioners about opportunism, who are defending their rights and are going to continue doing so. [[Applause]] Look, you were talking about Raxoi's commercial. What do you mean? The one who devoted 13 seconds to his intervention? You mean that Raxoi ad? He devoted 13 seconds to his speech at the Congress of Deputies, 13 seconds! Look, a discount announcement in the IRPF to those who have a pension of more than 17,000 euros. Do you know what average pension is in Galicia? I told you before: 800 euros. It's 11.200 euros a year. It's just that it doesn't practically affect any German pensioner, Mr. Tellado! Please, less demagoxy, less demagoxy! You know what Raxoi said?"We'll do what we can." For those below, for the working class, the People's Party will do its best. For those upstairs, whatever they want, whatever they ask, whatever they need. For those below, as far as you can. [[Applause]] Look, it's about priorities. And do you know what the People's Party's priority is? For, look, the People's Party undertakes to raise its military expenditure to NATO up to EUR 18,000 million; bailout from the bank: EUR 58,000 million; tax fraud: Gesha calculates it in EUR 60 billion, of which EUR 42,000 on the greatest fortunes; Madrid's radio highways: EUR 40 billion. Do you know how much this adds up, just this? It's 140 billion euros. And it turns out, for big fortunes and big businesses, whatever they want, there's no problem: 140 billion euros. For pensions, there's no money! There's no money for pensions! For pensions, what can be done
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u258	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u259	Mr. President, I'd ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u260	Silence!, I get tired, too, and I understand you're all tired. I'm tired too, but please ask everyone to be quiet. It's a serious subject and we have guests. Please take this seriously. I'm tired too, eh! Go ahead, Mrs. Prado. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u261	I appreciate it, Mr. President, because my throat has a limit. And the truth is, it continually plays the People's Party to try to see if we lose the thread of questions and are constantly mounting jealousy. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm saying it's an ideological matter. And the ideological question in the People's Party is that for those below, for the working class, there is never, and it is "what one can do" — texts by Mariano Raxoi, who devoted 13 seconds to the proposals; and, for those above, what they want. The priorities of the People's Party are these 140 billion euros in these few proposals that I have just made a report. And it turns out that for pensions there are no resources. It is, of course, a matter of priorities. And it's about the distribution of wealth. And what did the distribution of wealth say? That in the Spanish state the richest 10% captures 90% of wealth, the richest 10% captures the distribution. And he says that, during the crisis and during the outbreak of the crisis, this situation has only made it worse, that it has not been a problem of the crisis but that during the outbreak of the crisis this situation has only made it worse, that the richest have gotten more wealth; and the working class, getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u262	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u263	Just a second, Mr. President. As far as amendments are concerned, if you please me, here is a concrete proposal concerning the Galician Union where the People's Party Member has not taken a stand. Because it's obvious that the German Government has nothing to say about the lowest non-contributory pensions. Of course he has nothing to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u264	The amendments are from PSOE and En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u265	We are going to accept the amendments of En Marea, because we coincide with aspects that he describes. And we're going to accept as amendments to add the first two points of the Socialist Party's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García and Mr. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government to prevent the rejections and guarantee the right to a decent housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u267	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u268	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u269	Well, you must understand Mr. Tellado. When he speaks of shielding pensions, he refers to those of Mouse and the ones of Basel, and elsewhere. Because it can't refer to the fact that they revalue 0.25% when the CPI in 2017 was 2.1%, which means a cut of 1.85%. The definition of armor must not be that. But, of course, Mr Tellado's shortcomings are normal, because in every intervention he makes here he says he does not accept any lesson from anyone. So if you don't accept lessons from anyone, the normal thing is that you know little about it. Well, according to the General Council of the Judiciary, in 2017 the evictions increased in our country, in Galicia, by 4.6%. It's the ninth year after the crisis, and the evictions continue to have an intolerable limit. The housing is one of the most essential elements for the life of the human being. Together with food and clothing, they constitute the indispensable for the individual and social development of the person, as well as his family. The space framework allows the individual and his family to meet biological, personal and social needs. This right is also collected in its sacred Constitution. Article 47: "All Spaniards have the right to enjoy a decent and adequate housing. Public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to enforce this right by regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation. The community will participate in the surpluses that generate the urban action of public authorities." It would make sense to read this if it wasn't so serious what was happening to people. You've been tearing this article out of the Constitution for a long time, from which you are so devoted servants. The housing remains to be conceived, both by the Government of Greece and by the Government of the State, as an investment asset and not as a right. Not only does article 47 systematically fail, but they do exactly the opposite. Their policies systematically exclude thousands of people from the right to decent housing, expelling people from their homes and preventing young people from enjoying the right to vital projects having a home to live in. You provoke one of the hardest blows that a person can have in his life, which is to be expelled from his home. When this happens, most of the time she's a woman with children in charge, as the statistics say. They don't guarantee right, they do everything the opposite, exactly the opposite. You've been defending the same model since they've been in government, with small variations. In the years of precrisis we had real estate bubbles based on land liberalization, on the privileges of the banks and on the indebtedness of the working class. The consequences of these policies that prompted Mr Aznar with the 1998 Land Law were terrible for people, demolishing for thousands of people. We now live the bubble of the lease, the bubble of the lease, which we have long anticipated in this Parliament, if it is also inflating by its policies. Last year the investment in housing, to place it on the rental market, grew to 8.2%. Rental prices rose in Galicia over 6%. On the other hand, wages do not rise, labour stability does not reach. And therefore wide layers of population are defeated from their homes and that's why the defeats rise in Galicia and the rest of the state. With this equation, which is not something conjunctural, it's something structural, many layers of people — especially girls — do not have enough conditions to access a mortgage and derive from the rental market. In 2008, 31 per cent of young people accessing a housing did so through rent. 2016 is 71%. By increasing demand and not supply, renters rise spectacularly. They will rise this year and rise in 2019 until their policies change. Because you, with your policies, give up regulating that offer. Who manages the housing offer in this country? Banks and large owners, whether they can release or not, depending on their interests, depending on the price they can perceive. They hold or release depending on their interests. Neither the Galician Union nor the State Government have the ability to regulate the market, because you didn't want it. You prevent with your policies, sold to the interests of the large owners, sold to the banks, the ability of the public administration to regulate prices by, for example, increasing the offer of public or private housing, but with social rents and accessible. They make their policies consciously refusing to record the empty housing to the great empty housing owners. You refuse in Madrid to define the concept of empty housing so that the municipalities that want to do so can make a charge, they can impose a charge, to the empty housing. Today's empty housing is as cheap as before the crisis. You don't use the soil reserves for public housing, to build that housing, which could be necessary right now. You approved Law 8/2012, of Galician residence, where you were allowed to lower these soil reserves below the state minimum, fixing them in relation to the register of applicants. The world backwards! You also prevent the market from regulating. You've prevented your decisions from using Sareb's public finances for people's use. But, of course, you commit yourself to the banks, to those who buy toxic assets, and then the banks ask them not to release these housing because they can lower prices. And it won't be that they affect their balance sheets. You have amended the Law of Urban Rentals, legislating the tenant's behalf, reducing the contract period from five to three years and allowing these renewals of contracts to be made with the ups and downs, they don't put any limit, they give up on the regular. You, in the German Government, have not put a single effective measure to regulate prices and guarantee a right. Year after year in this country, five people have been defeated, year after year since the beginning of that so-called crisis. We think it's not because of the lack of capacity of the German Government, no, it's out of interest. In this, as in almost everything, there are conflicting interests. And you opt for the business, not the right to housing. You, in order to make other policies, would have to stop your feet at the banks and take your privileges away. And they're not willing; on the contrary, everything for them: rescue, purchase of toxic assets etc. And between the increases in rental prices — as I've explained — and the model of precariousness that you build day by day with unemployment, with poorly paid, unstable and without rights, the rest is going to be done. There are, besides the unemployed, 300,000 workers and workers who receive less than the minimum inter-professional wage, half of those under 35 have no work and the other half work in precarious employment. And then they say this is a land of opportunity. Opportunities for precariousness and labour exploitation. As I said, last year, the defiances went up, there are a lot of people who can't be emancipated, etc. And you will come here to make a speech with no self-criticism altogether. They've been failing to guarantee the right of people to housing since 2009 and they haven't changed because they don't want to change. It's a very serious theme, it's one of the material conditions that are essential for people's lives, and you refuse to modify this model. We have brought a number of proposals that we have seen repeating for a long time — even before this blob of rental was official, found by statistics — measures that are going to mean that the public gain weight to guarantee that right, that the public has the ability, at least, to regulate prices, to regulate the market, so that people have a decent housing to live in. We call for a substantial increase in the public rental housing park. We haven't invented anything. In countries where there is a struggle to guarantee this right, the capacity of a rental housing park to secure that same right, with a coordinated public intervention for the sufficient housing generation, is already very old. Galicia has 3,500 out of 1,600,000 homes. We also want another housing adjudication system. We want Sareb's housing to be used for that public park. We want to increase the budgets, but also the execution of the budgets — the poor levels of execution, the ones I will then refer to — and use measures for the mobilization of housing, which once and for all comply with the Act of local farms, which is defined by regulation the concept of "empty living" so that the municipalities they want to be able to record the empty housing of the large owners. We want the Law on Urban Rentals to be amended to regulate prices and to give stability to people living in housing, which is the priority, above the benefit of those doing business with rental; and to develop an effective programme to prevent evictions. None of this you've done. The data say that all their policies, if they were trying to guarantee that right — which I question — have failed. And they continue to fail and they will continue to fail, given the context in which we are moving. You need to change that model, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to guarantee that right. Otherwise they'll be using the violence of institutions against people. And the worst corruption you can do is to use these institutions against the general interest and the interest of a few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u270	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u271	Thank you, President. Housing is a classic example of a theoretical right, recognized in legislation, in the Constitution and also in international legislation, in the International Declaration of Human Rights, which in practice is inaccessible to a vast majority of the population. And this has been aggravated in recent years as a result of this so-called crisis, which has led to the increase in housing prices — both in the purchase and rental — and to the fall in the income of the working class, of the middle class — for those with income, because there are also sectors of society that cannot even afford the luxury of having a rent as to aspire to have a rent housing; and there is 25% of the population, almost 700,000 people, who are in a situation of exclusion and poverty. And it's not that there's no housing policy. It's just that if there's housing policy that's intended not to favor access to housing but to favor speculation and business. And that's the way in which the new State Housing Plan, recently approved by the Council of Ministers, goes, too, which, as many experts are already saying — even real estate — will provoke, is an explosion in the blouse of rental. Sure, what's going on here? That there can be no direct housing policy of the State, of the public sector, of governments, in fundamental matters, such as the price of land, the price of housing and the offer of public housing, the offer of housing both in property and rent. What happens is that, of course, this goes against certain interests, the interests of the large owners and the interests of the bank, which are the ones that currently control the real estate sector and the housing sector. And, as there is no such comprehensive policy, it is replaced by partial measures, cosmetic measures, palliative and reactive measures, to calm down certain tensions in society, and not to develop comprehensive policies, preventive and proactive policies. And above all, there is the mismanagement of the plans and projects that are presented; the delay, for example, in the adoption of housing plans. The previous one was for the years 2013-2016 and ended up being 2015-2017; with an extension in 2017 that had, among other things, the result of several months' delay in the processing of aid, with the consequences that this has for the people who are waiting and depend on those aids. And the reality is that these people have to borrow money from their families in order to be able to cope with rent payments until official help comes to them. There's a delay in the aid, a delay in the plans. The new 2018-2020 plan has just been approved now, with which the help will be out within three or four months and practically not running this year. There is also low budget execution, and I no longer say of the Housing Plan, which has not been executed in part, and in Galicia it has not been executed in part, but also of the budgets itself, as we have said here, of the Housing Council, which have very low levels of execution in matters, for example, of rehabilitation and quality of housing. Of course, the BNG will support this initiative. We think that there is a need for a radical change in housing policy, which has to happen, firstly, by changing the legal framework — both the Urban Rent Act 2013, which has had these negative consequences with regard to rent, the increase in rent price, and also the State Housing Law. And we understand that we have to take steps in this regard, for example, to guarantee housing as a right by mobilising for renting empty dwellings. There are those hundreds of thousands of Sareb homes that aren't going out on the market. Some crumbs come out, but, of course, it turns out that Sareb gave up 97 homes for social rent, 97 homes!, which is an absolutely ridiculous amount. We also believe that public investment in housing needs to be substantially increased, because the Spanish State and Galicia are in line with Europe in this matter. We're just above Malta and Cyprus, which is not how to pretend. And, therefore, what we ask for in our amendment is that effective measures are being taken to stop the evictions, which, according to the data of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, in 2017 in Galicia increased by 4.6%, i.e. they are not falling but are rising, especially the releases due to the lack of payment of the rent, which have increased by 6.2%. I mean, it was more than 1,693 last year. So we're asking for a change in the housing law. And we request, through our amendment, a moratorium on rejections and compliance with the recommendations of the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights — which has warned the Spanish State in this regard — to avoid non-alternative defiance of vulnerable people and families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u272	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. A year and three months later we discuss this subject again. And also a year and three months later this group will support the proposal formulated and consistent with what you've done in the past. Even though we disagree in certain shades of the resolution, we understand that our position in general is shared, thus ratifying our favourable vote. The People's Ombudsman's Report of 2017 — recently published — reveals that, despite the lack of reliable statistical data on the speed of the process — so it says — between 2008 and 2017, the lives of the refugees are estimated at half a million. And so it's estimated that two million people can be affected by the loss of housing throughout Spain. And what is the context today? If we look at the data provided by the General Council of the Judiciary on the mortgage executions initiated in our community, the truth is that they have increased. If in 2016 data were 727 the mortgage executions started, in 2017 the number increased to 787, an increase of 8.25%. A data that attracts attention, since the number of these executions was on a descending chart in recent years and seems to re-repeat. We're talking about the start of two mortgage executions of housing a day. In any case, there is a nuance, and the profile of the executions has been slightly changing. While in Galicia in 2014 the number of executions on housing accounted for 54% of the annual executions, in 2017 it was 44%. Now executions affect more proportionally to locations and other kinds of goods. And there is also another important data that varied: while in 2014 3 out of every 5 refugees were physical persons, in 2017 they are 2 out of every 5. Legal people — builders, promoters — are increasing, behind many of the homeless. And in this context, the question is, what is then hidden behind these figures? Because when we compare them to what happened last year in the rest of Spain, Galicia frankly comes out very badly. If the start of house mortgage executions in the case of Greek increased by 8.25%, in the rest of communities a clear and marked decline has been experienced. Andalucia has dropped by 34%; in Madrid, by 38%; and the state average is by 34%. It's a difference, therefore, of 42 points between what happens in the rest of Spain and what happens here in Galicia, which seems to be against state trends, the only community in which it has increased. How is this behavior explained? From the Socialist Group, we believe that the key is the focus of housing policy, more focused on palliative care than on reducing problems from the outset, coupled with a slower pace in economic recovery. It's a policy, that of housing, that proves itself unable to solve the problems of the most vulnerable Greeks and Greeks. In four years, over 2,500 families lost their homes in Galicia. And it's true that the number of housing rent unpaid litigation is also important, around 270 cases, which are resolved by the delivery of the housing to the owners. And how is it that there may be families who lose their homes for rent's default with help for this purpose? Well maybe because they can't even provide a minimum, or have accumulated debts that, yes, are not covered by any help. And perhaps also because of the ignorance of these possibilities, which could be reduced by better inter-organism communication. Experts point out that the level of domestic access effort should not exceed 30%, as higher percentages could compromise other family expenses and even produce morbidity in the monthly mortgage quotas. However, in order to arrive at the end of the month in no hurry, the prudent would —din — move the percentage between 20% and 25%. According to real estate registrar statistics, in the second quarter of 2017, the average percentage in Galicia of the quota for the salary cost is 26.29%, exceeding that line of caution recommended. And let us bear in mind that, according to the IGE, more than 50,000 homes in 2016 were delayed in the payment of expenses related to the principal housing — we refer to mortgage, rent, gas, community... Which speaks of the difficulties that continue to be experienced by many Greeks and Greeks in order to be able to cope with the expenses that the mere maintenance of it. And with the increase in the price of renters — which Mr. Sánchez has already pointed out — something that is already being experienced in municipalities like the Coruña and Vigo, accompanied by the lowest availability of dwellings under the ceilings that mark the Union to precisely access the housing rental aid, all of them come, to be circumstances which may cause a further accentation of the problem and which will require a review of the measures and conditions of the same established by the Council. At this point we agree with the En Marea group. In fact, yesterday the Socialist Party registered an initiative at the Congress of Deputies in which we focus on the necessary protection of tenants. On the one hand, returning to rents with forceful extension until the age of five and with the updating of incomes with the IPC, reversing the effects of the reform that the People's Party carried out in 2013. And, on the other hand, by measures such as that the procedures for first-life eviction must always be carried out by means of communication to the competent social services, amending for that the Civil Determination Act. For this reason, and especially because, over the course of this year and three months in which we are debating this motion, the housing policy continues to occupy camillae in the UVI for the government's councils, saturated with emergencies and collapsing, the Socialist Party will support this motion, which we believe can provide part of the medicines necessary for it to begin to recover. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Title of the voice of Galicia now: "Identify a Member of the Council of En Marea in a gang accused of vandalism in Santiago de Compostela". In view of this, Mr. En Marea, what do you intend to do? Don't you hear? It doesn't matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u276	Quiet, quiet, quiet! [[Strong murmurers.]] Mr. Casal, be quiet. Quiet. Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Casal, quiet! Mr. Castineira, on the matter. [[Strong murmurers.]] Quiet, quiet! No, Mr. Casal, silence. [[Strong murmurers.]] They don't dialogue around. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Castineira, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u277	You say, Mr. Sánchez, Mr. En Marea, that the housing problem is structural, it's not conjunctural. Well, let's talk about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We could really open an interesting debate on this subject if we were able to speak wisely. But, of course, you say one thing and do the opposite. And there it is. They used the evictions and the people, the families who suffered this problem, to get to the institutions. And once institutions are reached, they can't find solutions. There's no sad solution. We can start talking about Catalonia, Barcelona, we can talk about Balearics, we can talk about the Community of Valencia, we can talk about closer here, if they want, the Coruña, Ferrol. Let's start with the Coruña, because it's the closest we've got, and we all know it. There's no problem, no less, conjunctural. It's a structural problem, I'll give them the reason. Because, by chance, there are more than twenty thousand free, empty dwellings in the Coruña, and two of them deserve a signant bottom for every six. Six, two are at least one of En Marea's signatures. 40 per cent of the budget for housing policy is intended for housing policy. Which, by the way, should have had a precarious and such wage problem, because he's an adviser, nothing but Ada Colau, nothing more. That's a structural problem. You really need to talk to Ada Colau because you don't have to pay him enough, you must have him as a precarious advisor. That's a problem. Besides, if this was little — and that's clearly a structural problem — it's a 4th, a commercial place, a 4th, a low cover. Of course, energy efficiency, what else does it give? That's a structural problem. It was a commercial place but we bought it as a housing, so we're going to comply with the regulations? That's a structural problem, it's not conjunctural and that I ruled in Marea. I was passing by and there was that. It wasn't a friend arrangement. That's what's happening. But if this isn't enough, if they want, we're moving from town to town and moving to Ferrol. And in Ferrol, the first thing that was done, nothing else coming to the municipal government, was self-declared "city free of evictions." That's right, that's right, that's great. There are no defeats in Ferrol. In Ferrol, in public housing owned by the municipality, taking advantage of families leaving — and even if they have a young child, they will have their needs and not all the day they're in the house — they're tapped. Then that's not defeat. But let's go to the houses. It's a structural problem. But the problem is structural, Mr. Sánchez and Mr. En Marea — and Mr. BNG and Mr. PSOE, who collaborated, and took part and put these governments where they are, or rule them out, because logically they have the responsibility that they did not let them rule who won the elections, put others who are more interested and now there are these consequences. The problem is structural, but the problem is structural for those who rule in these cities, by chance, where there are most evictions in Galicia. Look, we can't, because if you want us to talk about Valencia -- here came the Valencian Community, when you have the silver medal, or, sorry, bronze, from all over Spain in defeats-- I don't think Valencia is the example to set. Because Andalusia is the second in most challenges, the second. So I don't think it's the model to put on, much less. That's according to the data from the General Council of the Judiciary, which must be tinted. And that's true for all communities and the whole state. The General Council of the Judiciary itself, in its introduction, explains that these releases, which come from these statistics, refer to all kinds of releases. You even have the heaviness that they add up to those who come as "other releases," they add up to that, which increased by 30%. You don't know what they correspond to, but they just add up to us so that the statistics make you interested in it. Well, I think the data should be analysed in a way. There are rustic farms, shopping sites, garages, of all kinds. The only difference is between LAU derivatives and mortgage derivatives. There's no difference in housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u278	Quiet, quiet! No, silence! He doesn't have to answer anything, he's intervening. Silence!, then you speak, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u279	I didn't ask him to answer me, and I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u280	Silence! Then you speak, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u281	You know perfectly well what they're talking about; therefore, they don't mention as dwellings... [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u282	Quiet, quiet! Mr. Sánchez, quiet, quiet. Then you have the word. Quiet, quiet! Don't interrupt. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, I have to call you in order. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u283	Look, in housing policy there are 12 measures that some Members and Members would recommend to read, are 12 measures on evictions that have been approved by the Union and that, by chance, some other communities have just removed, communities that I have just mentioned, co-governed between the PSOE and Podemos, which have just launched similar measures — many of them — which they have been here for years. Yeah, so explain, see where they're going. [[Murmurs.]] And what I would recommend to you is that you tell them, where they rule -- or they rule, rather, say -- that they don't set up joints when they intend to make housing, as it is in the Coruña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u284	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u285	...or as it is in Ferrol, or as it is in other cases, where it is expected, to build 40 public promotion homes, since 2016 by a license. There's no urbanization in the office park because it doesn't matter, and there's 200 families waiting for their housing to be handed over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u287	...the majority of official protection.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u288	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u289	Or in Santiago, that they won't let the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u290	Thank you, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u291	...what they intend to do. Look, no city hall license can't be built.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u292	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u293	And they're taking more than a half year when the board wants it. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u294	Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez. Now it's when you can ask about the data. [[Strong murmurers.]] Of course, of course!, now is the time, please! Now's the time, not when I was interrupting. Ask him now for data three or four times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u295	Now you're going to do the same thing that's been doing this government for years: don't answer. They don't want to give them. Mr. Castineira, I already knew — you are too predictable, the People's Party is very predictable — that, in view of the lack of arguments and data for your policies, because they are indefensible, you would come here to call the ground. And besides, I knew I was going to go to the cities. Look, for not spending too much time with the cities, because it's very unlikely his speech, at this point in those cities the People's Party surpassed the 12 defendants, Mr. Castineira. And now there are zero defendants, Mr. Castineira. You can talk about the conspiracy theory you want, 12 to 0 you won, Mr. Castineira, 12 to 0! [[Applause]] Their intervention can only be understood from the absolute lack of respect and consideration of the people who are excluded from the right to housing, from the absolute failure of respect to the people who are expelled from their homes. Instead of coming here and defending with arguments and data — so I asked you about the data — the policies of your government over the last nine years, instead of explaining to these people why the evictions are still going up, because despite that they persist in the same policies that have kept them going up the defiances, you came here to disgust the debate and not contribute anything. They've been ruling for nine years with five daily defiances, Mr. Castineira. It's data from the General Council of the Judiciary. Thanks to this honourable Member, a non-legislative proposal was adopted for the Board itself to produce reliable data on home-based evictions. What credibility can a government have by talking about housing when it doesn't even interest you to have data to know the magnitude of that problem? And he came to me to boast of his measures. Look, the 31st January CEO I recommend you read it, because you, in the program, that of the empty housing census, literally spent a lot more on advertising and propaganda than on the program itself. Look, in the empty housing program there was an budget of €300,000. They've spent more than the budget on advertising and propaganda. We know all about that empty housing program. But it's more, at the DAG on January 31st, the aid relationship comes. Do you know how many there were for that show? Four! Four! Do you know what the amount was executed? EUR 10,499, 3,4 % executed. And, as far as I know, not all the municipalities of Galicia are governed by the Tides. You may continue to insist, since a government that has been nine years long, that the problem of the defeats is the governments of the Tides of three cities that arrived two years ago scarce. And you'll be the trouble of anyone who takes this problem seriously. Because you're the douchebag of anyone who knows about the problem. They don't care. They don't care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u296	Silence, silence...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u297	They take cynicism to the extreme. Look, that gentleman had something to drink at noon because he's been saying barbarities all afternoon. I'm sick of it now. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u298	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u299	I'm sick of these barbarities and you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u300	No, no...! Quiet, quiet...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u301	And you must look both ways.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u302	It's okay, I'm looking both ways.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u303	I don't even want to hear what you're saying anymore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u304	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u305	He's always saying real barbarities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u306	Quiet! About the amendment of the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u307	Please, please...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u308	Quiet, quiet! About the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u309	Please, man!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u310	Quiet, please. Mr. Peace, be quiet! That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u311	It was a joke, man, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u312	BNG's amendment, Mr. Sánchez, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u313	Look, I'm just finishing up. You in the Aluga programme: budget ceiling, 86,000 euros; five aids, 17,000 euros executed — or 20% executed —. In the rental social bonus they left behind 700,000 euros, they executed 60% of the budget. And you come to assume your policies. They obviously have no political will to end this drama.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u314	Thank you. The amendment of the BNG!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u315	Yes, BNG's amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you work for the banks and speculators.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u319	And you come here asking for explanations to En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u320	Silence! Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u321	They ask for explanations here to En Marea when their policies are evicting from the dwellings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u322	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u323	...thousands of people. Your policies, you are responsible for your policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u324	You've finished your shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u325	And they don't ask us for explanations. Give you an explanation... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u326	Thank you, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez, your time is up. And besides, a time off. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, he didn't... No, no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, I was attentive in the debate and didn't say that you, exactly, had consumed no alcoholic beverages. [[Murmurs.]] Please! Please! We will not weaken this situation. In any case, if that can be offensive, don't you mind removing it? Yes, tell him, I ask him. Quiet. Quiet. Give Mr. Sánchez a voice to see if we take that off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u327	If I offended him, I take it away, but the truth is, it was a continuous reaction to the interruption when I was talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u328	The truth is, I understood it that way, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u329	He's retired. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u330	He's retired. Thank you. If I had understood it any other way, of course I wouldn't have left it or mentioned it, and I would have withdrawn it. I understand that, the truth. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the necessary transparency in the procurement of self-employed persons, in particular with regard to minor contracts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u331	There are no amendments to this non-law proposal. Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal. And see if we're all going to calm down now and we end up, please, this one full with a little quiet. We'll finish it well, if possible. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u332	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Let's see if we're done with this whole thing, it's time, with quieter and more transparency, too, by the way, because that's it. If I suppose this is the initiative, I hope that this issue does not cause these debates that sometimes obscure precisely the clarity we seek. Because when we talk about public procurement, and when we talk about public procurement in the less than we'll now see, we talk about two matters or two very important pillars in our social fabric and in our economic fabric. Firstly, because the impact of autonomous public procurement — on the economic fabric, on the business fabric, on the specific fabric of pemes and, of course, on employment — is very high, as it has been assessed by the economic authorities and even in the new Public Sector Contracts Act, which estimates that the impact of public procurement is 20% of the gross domestic product. So the economic impact is fundamental, but the second aspect of this issue, which is fundamental, is the level of institutional quality, the level of commitment to combat corruption and fraud. Because even though we're talking about smaller recruitment, it's not a minor matter, as we're going to see. Because it turns out that at the Board of Directors of 29 August 2013 the Public Sector Rationalization Bill was approved, and they were told, to all citizens, that this new law as regards transparency, at the beginning, which will also govern public procurement, since the law establishes a reduction to half the margin for direct taxation of such contracts over 9,000 euros in service and supply contracts and 25,000 euros in works contracts; in these cases it will be compulsory to apply for three separate offers to companies not linked to each other. In fact, Law 14/2013 on the rationalisation of the public sector included in its Article 23.1. precisely the obligation of more than EUR 9,000 for supplies and services and above 25,000 for works to the contracting bodies to apply for at least three offers. It is true that this reduced by half, precisely, the obligation to apply for these three offers from smaller contracts, but it is also true that there were obligations of the European Union authorities, precisely when European funds were used to reduce to these thresholds the request for at least three offers. It turns out that just under two years ago, on the basis of the adoption of Law 4/2016, of legal aid management of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, this obligation suddenly disappears in Article 23.1 and disappears, and he commented on it the other day in the Commission 3a, with a new regulatory technique, a little camouflage technique — we commented, no — because in that sense no derogation or partial, no total, nor any mention is made in the explanatory statement of the law, why the last less than two years really stops asking for three offers in all this kind of minor contract and the technique of a transmutation is used, and suddenly there is another text that has nothing to do with the obligation that existed. And it is true that the Law 1/2016, of transparency and good governance of Galicia, in its Article 13 established — and still clearly establishes — the obligation on the part of the Galician Board, by all contracting bodies, to publish, at least quarterly, on the Transparency Portal all minor contracts indicating the object, the duration, the amount, the bidding and the adjudication, the number of tenderers participating and the identity of the prosecutor, which should be published, as I say — at least — with this quarterly perioricity. We thought we were, precisely, in the face of the non-compliance, of a mere formal obligation, but when we were, precisely, to analyze what we are talking about, what volume of recruitment through this modality is being bided in the self-government public sector, it was when not only a formal question, but rather a matter of substance, a question of socio-economic impact, we began to worry in a more special way. Because, according to the data from the Business Council itself, the data extracted from the Public Procurement Register, at the end of last year — information published, nuanced, is from the year 2016, we are awaiting publication of the information from 2017 — we are told that the Galician Council and the autonomous public sector have assessed by less than 123,903 contracts. Many may be, may be less, almost equal in quantitative terms, because what we would mind most is to reflect the amount taxed through smaller contracts, and this amount charged through smaller contracts during the 2016 fiscal year by the autonomic public sector — which we had occasion the other day also to point — amounts to 869 million euros, of the 1,847 million of the total bid in the autonomic public sector in 2016. In other words, almost 50 % of the contracts awarded by the autonomous public sector in Galicia in 2016 were made by means of the smaller procurement modality, which may, at least, amount to 10% of the total autonomous budget of 2016. And, of course, if we come together that there is a significant reduction in the public bid of around 25% in the last lustro and, on the other hand, we subtract almost half of that public tender from smaller procurement, the conclusions, a priori, that we can have are double: less competitiveness, of course, and, above all, more opacity. On the other hand, less competitiveness, because it focuses on the ability of large corporations to come to the public tender. Once the volume of taxed to large corporations is reduced, almost every type of contract is presented, with which, in addition, it has the serious prejudice that almost feared offers, the discounts that are being offered, can sometimes be as a percentage of 40% drop. And he points out that the current popular spokesperson in this case in the Vigo Council — as well as the former Councillor of Fairy, by the way — tells us that he sees this form of allocation scandalous without any publicity. I read literally, because you have reminded the popular spokesman these days — certainly these days in relation to this debate or not — that they are assisted without any publicity, without competition, in which no offers are requested from several companies and in which, therefore, there is no control. And he says, "It is clear that there is an intention to hire certain companies.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I don't say it, say it to the popular spokesman in Vigo, former councillor, precisely, of Fairy. [[Applause]] And in that sense, looking precisely at the Autonomic Transparency Portal, but we've checked how recent dates it wasn't possible to access information on smaller contracts. And on the other day in the 3rd Commission on Economics and Business, we have asked, or I have asked, several questions, precisely to the representative of the Business Council, and I am basically also left with three answers. A first question was why at two years of forced recruitment above these thresholds to apply for three offers, that obligation, first of transparency and second of all, which increases the competitiveness of the economic sector in Galicia, and the answer was that there was a new law of transparency, no longer needed to use these thresholds of EUR 9,000 or EUR 25,000. It has nothing to do with precisely what is known as the smaller procurement that is being carried out by the autonomic public sector in order to promote competitiveness and transparency in order to request at least three offers for each of the contracts. A second question was, precisely, how the Fairy Council itself valued, which is the one that offers the data, the so high number of contracts, but above all that almost 50% of the public tender in Galicia is being made through less procurement. The answer was none, in this sense. And thirdly, one of the issues — which precisely brings us to this initiative — was whether the Council of Galicia, through the Register of Contracts of the Autonomic Public Sector, was facilitating, or intended to facilitate, information on the contracts that are formalised to this House in application of the regulation itself adopted by the Council of Galicia itself in 2016, which regulates, precisely, the Register of Contracts of the Autonomic Public Sector, which says that the Register will serve as an instrument of the public authorities for review and further improvement of the procedures and practices of public procurement, supervision of competition and transparency of our public markets. The representative of the Business Council, curiously or by chance, commented that since several days ago he had started publishing on the Autonomic Portal on a minor contract. It draws attention to the information being published, because many of the 83 contracting bodies were only 34 of them, in principle, publishing smaller contracts, not publishing smaller contracts, for example, investment departments such as Galician Waters, Galician Ports, Igape, Galician Radio-Television Company, the Galician Consortium of Social Services, Galician Public Investment Society, etc., etc. And it's true that starting on March 9th, you have to put the batteries on the part of the German Government in publishing the smaller contract, in publishing the smaller contract by identifying contractors so you can verify that there are no splits of contracts. And that's why, because we have the perception that for the Greek Government transparency is really a matter, you speak of liquid matter, I think that sometimes it seems like a more gaseous matter, what we ask is that they convert and pass precisely transparency to the precise solid state. And that is why we, on this initiative, are asking that the Italian Government itself comply with its own rules, and that is why we are requesting that, by virtue of the regulation establishing the Register of Contracts of the Autonomous Public Sector to the Galician Council, in order to ensure that there is necessary transparency, forward information on a monthly basis to this House in the field of public procurement. And on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will continue to promote initiatives, and as it further establishes the new Public Sector Contracts Act, so that we have in this Chamber permanent control and verification bodies for all autonomous public procurement. Nothing else, there are no amendments in this case by the People's Party, I don't know if, as always...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u333	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u334	...—ending right now—in the conviction that they are, of course, convinced that it cannot be otherwise, that there will have to be compliance with the rules themselves that are given, or that they will continue to maintain transparency in that gaseous state, when what we ask is precisely that it will have the transparency of autonomous public management. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u335	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. Amendment and non-amendant groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Xoese Luís Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u336	Thank you, President. This of transparency looks like a rhetorical sort of reading that has been fashionable in recent times, which has a lot to do with cosmetics and makeup. This of transparency is very much like that fable of The new suit of the emperor, of The naked king, it seems a little like the staging of stupidity and deception, as it is done. Because, in fact, we are faced with a paradox, which is increasingly seen as there are more unfair, more corrupt and more anti-democratic governments, and at the same time we are selling more transparency like, really, something very modern and very advanced, and even there are rankings of transparency and international bodies, supposedly independent, which are not independent, which make the classification of transparency, and we see things unusual like that, for example, in Galicia the first place of transparency the Baltarnia realm, which, as we know, is the maximum of transparency, is going to divide prizes, recognitions and giving lessons of transparency. We have the naked king there, par excellence, the king of the rigour of political transparency. And of course, as long as transparency is assumed, transparency law, transparency portal, because we see how the legislation itself is systematically breached. We have seen it in the case of smaller contracts, and we are not against smaller contracts, nor negotiated contracts, we think it is a well-used formula, without abuse, because it can serve to dynamize the local economy, because in the end we are seeing as all the registrative changes and the new contract law the path that leads to favouring large companies and harming small and medium-sized enterprises, which will eventually become subcontractors of large companies, which will be the ones that will have more and more access to contracts. But one thing is proper use, another thing is abuse, and another thing is lack of transparency, the non-advertising of these contracts, as was done by the Galician Union to very recent dates, which I don't know why the minor contracts lasted five days on the website, and then they disappeared, they fluctuated. I don't know if it was a technological problem or a spiritual problem, but they really disappeared from the web, from the network. Of course, transparency has other deficits and there are other deficits in the case of the Government, there are the conventions. For example, there is also an obligation in the Transparency Act to publish the agreements on the Transparency Portal every four months, and it is not being complied with. There's a lot of joint departments that don't publish the conventions. And not only that, but agreements are signed with absolutely partisan criteria. And there is also the failure to fulfil the obligation, for example, set out in Article 19, to submit a report on the degree of compliance with Parliamentary agreements. Of course, it does not seem to us to be serious, nor does it seem like a report that has just been published, which is a genuine misunderstanding; it seems to us a lack of respect for Parliament, the report on the degree of compliance of the parliamentary agreements that have just been published in the Transparency Portal, and we will have an opportunity to speak of this in the committees; it is of course what they bring to us — because this is not for nothing — that we ask them one by one the degree of compliance of each of the agreements that have been made in Parliament, both in the plenary and in the committees, because, of course, they do not give us an answer to this demand, nor to the obligation which the law does not already say, by any means, of systematic failure to provide Parliament with information through Article 9, which is something that they are systematically ignoring. Therefore, the BNG, as it could not be otherwise, will support this initiative, and we hope, of course, that with these proposals, both in the committees and in the plenary, you actually comply with what they approve in the laws, because the laws are to comply with them, and transparency too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u337	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. For we, as it cannot be otherwise, are going to support this initiative of the Socialist Party, along the lines of an initiative that we presented in Commission 1a, which was also supported by the opposition, and which, of course, was not supported at that time — to see what they are doing now — by the accused People's Party, the great advocates of transparency, who make laws so transparent and so participatory that it turns out — when initiatives are brought here to this Parliament — because the usual one, they want to ask others what they do not do, and they are not even able to comply with their own law. We explained on that day that in 2015 we were in full glance and vague cases of alleged corruption linked to the PP at different points in the state, now sadly linked clearly to the illegal financing of the People's Party that caused its imputation to the party in terms of corruption with the Gürtel's trials and investigation commissions, where they are directly accused — and we have already told them — of the Galician PP as recipients, presumably, of this illegal funding, and that allowed them to participate in doubles in the elections. And that is why, on the eve of the municipal elections that are particularly complex for you — for Galician PP — cases such as the Town Hall of Santiago, where you have been charged almost the whole local government for corruption, because you have been forced — the President of the Union has been forced to announce a plan of democratic impulse against corrupt practices, which included the approval of this famous law of transparency and good government of the PP, when you are the most exponent of this lack of transparency. They had no use for the propaganda apparatus, they lost three cities in the Coruña, and they couldn't do anything in other cities that they had already lost. These evil left-wing governments, those who are always making opposition from this House. What happens is that later, when they have to comply with the law, such as what was collected in relation to minor contracts, there is even nothing wrong with their own law, as we have explained in that commission; we published minor contracts and were deleted a week after their publication by the art of magic, losing the absolute trace of the data that the German Government itself had to make public. We ask for a minimum of three months, as you collect in your law, but you see that they don't even agree with what they legislate, it's quite a splendour. In addition, because of quite a good amount of money, 808 million were far ahead of the contracts through the negotiated procedure, and that, as we explained in that commission, they were supplies contracted to public centres, the corresponding to consumable health material, that is, they are not things that have no relevance. But, of course, his spokesperson at that time — rather than giving an explanation about the supposed technical issues that made the Greek Government once again travel through the ambiguous line of its own Transparency Law on this issue — is again devoted to telling lies and trying to defame the governments of the tides of Podemos, as he loves to say. Of course, and to a lot of honor, the governments supported by Podemos — who are always talking about the divisions we have — are on the same boat to fight against their corruption, and that's why we have such good tunes, the difference of your unity to cover your shrapnels. We did not, and, as I told Mrs. Prado, we would demand more of ours than you demand of yours, which we see later as they end. So I'm going to explain, because I think it's important, in the face of lies and defamations, to speak to the truth. Report of minor contracts, which according to Mrs. Paula Prado were not exposed at the Mayor of Compostela Aberta. Here they are, published. They weren't published because the Intervention didn't send them to the Office of Citizen Care -- and I'm telling you to stay calm -- but they had the political order that they were sent, and they could consult all the previous exercises, and this government was two and a half months late, but in Ourense, where you rule, you go back years on the adalis of transparency. And besides, I'd have to explain to you, Mrs Prado, the Government of Compostela, the truth is, yes. If we speak of international transparency index, the 2017 performance index of Compostela Aberta is 91.9%, compared in 2014 to 66.3% of the People's Party charged in Santiago. Go where! We go from 66.3% to 91.9% today. Ourense is 71.9%, the worst in the cities. With regard to the Coruña, here are also published the minor contracts, the difference of Ourense, which we have here and are not published in years. And with regard to the Coruña, also for the tranquillity of the People's Group and Mrs. Paula Prado herself, telling them that the minors have been published at the Transparency Portal for two days, and it has not been done before because they were liquidating the budget in the municipality since last year and processing this year, but the politically useful data, which is the relevant one, which is what you must learn, is that the Council of Coruña itself bids for the profile of the contractor 122 smaller contracts with an amount of 1.44 million euros, which have been charged by 800 million, which I assumed a 700 million savings for the citizens and citizens of the Coruña. The PP in its four years of previous term did not bid a single minor contract for the profile. These are the good managers, transparent and who care for both the public money of the Greeks and the Greeks and cities. You liars, you bad guys!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u339	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u340	In Ourense you can't even consult, and as the fame of Baltarism and popular governments has already been said, and that's why they don't have a single city from which they really don't let themselves be deceived by you, and the reality and the data put you in one place and the opposition, in the case of management, in another. So, therefore, the facts speak alone. We support the Socialist Party and all the real measures of transparency, good government and fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u341	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, don't start, don't start. Quiet. We're finishing up now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u343	Quiet, quiet. Wait, Mrs. Prado, wait. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet. Mr. Peace, be quiet! Quiet, quiet. We're gonna suspend five minutes, what do you think? Five or ten? It's almost best to suspend ten minutes, I'd say yes, because this... Well, then be quiet. Start by being quiet first. Let's go, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Europe Press, teletype this afternoon in Galicia: "A Member of En Marea involved in a dispute with the Santiago Police in a night control by vandalism. Besides picking up your computer and your personal devices, are you going to do any other management, ladies and gentlemen?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, Mr. Díaz, you bring an initiative today
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u345	Quiet, quiet. Mr. Casal, be quiet. No, no, but you're not in the debate. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u346	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u347	Yes, everyone. There's only Mrs. Prado. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u348	I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u349	No, but then I'll make up for it, don't worry. But on all sides if you can stop it was better, I'll follow you till 11:00. Now I'm resting! All right, I've been out for a minute. I've got my life fixed, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u350	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Díaz, today you are bringing an initiative calling for a transfer to the Galician Parliament of the Public Autonomic Sector Contract Register. An information that, as you know, Mr. Díaz, you have access to it just like any citizen of Galicia; the difference is that not all citizens of Galicia have access to that information in the municipalities where you rule, or in the municipalities where you support those governments. I'm going to give you some examples. It turns out, at least, amazing that you come here asking for not transparency, but more transparency, and rather I'd like you to do a little bit of pedagogy within your party, if that's possible. Because look, for example, at Lugo. In Lugo they are asked to sign a document of confidentiality to access the book of decrees; the concellers, I no longer tell the citizens, the concellers. In Vilagarcia de Arousa, who was here this morning, the mayor, we don't know how many minor contracts are awarded, because they don't publish them, the last supply entry is of the year 2015, that of works of September 2017 and that of services of August 2017. And he talked about Vigo, I don't know if it's because in that way he's so atypical to you, those of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Galicia, because just like you wanted to bring Vigo here, but since he's bringing it up, I'm going to tell him. Look, you look like a scandal that Joina has 50% smaller contracts, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u351	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u352	You don't care, because you have to interrupt, because it's the most fascist way of not listening to what you have to say. That's right, we have to listen. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u353	Let's not get involved, there's no fascist here, nobody!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u354	I said fascist form, it's fascist form.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u355	No one, no one, no fascist form. In any case, that seems to me to be not a very appropriate expression. Let's finish it now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u356	I was saying that if 50% of the minor contracts are very much like you, what do you think 96% of Vigo, Mr. Díaz? EUR 14.8 million in smaller contracts. Well, I guess that's gonna seem like a scandal, so I'm sure you brought Vigo's data here today. You will not be surprised, then, that Mrs. Muñoz says the truth is that in the Vigo Council the management of minor contracts leaves much to be desired. With regard to the Town Hall of Santiago, which was brought out here, it is surprising that they call me a liar when they come to recognize that today, March 20, the Town Hall of Santiago on its website has not published a single contract less than the year 2018. And they call me a liar, and anyone can open their computer and check that the Town Hall of Santiago today, March 20, has not published a single contract for 2018. [[Murmurs.]] You have to be brave, Mrs. Santos! The truth is, you have a lot of value. And he says we don't ask the others what we don't do. No, you don't ask us what you don't. Well, if your initiative last week served to get the Council of Coruña to publish the minor contracts that it had not published since 2016, welcome. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] They bring all the initiatives they want to push the action of the governments of the tides of Podemos. And since you're talking about the tides of Podemos, look, we have no copyright, if you want to call them tides of Podemos now that you have a problem with the name, we give them the name, there's no problem. Look, in today's paper, just like two days ago they were published, we have access to minor contracts. Look, 12 million euros in the Coruña, you know how many, 5,506 projects, 246% more than the previous year. 246% more! And do you come to suck here from the smaller contracts of the Crown? Mrs. Santos, you're a brave man, you're a brave man. Yes, yes, a brave one. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u357	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u358	Look, in the Town Hall of Santiago they acquitted the conciliators as they acquitted their mayor of the tides of Podemos and his conciliator of Urbanism, who were also charged. So if the acquittal goes for each other, it goes for each other as well. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Bará, the strange phenomenon is that you don't have contracts for less than three days. When you ruled the Union there were not even three days, that was indeed a strange phenomenon, nor did the texts of the conventions appear. And of course, it's no wonder that you say it's a book, a cosmetic or a makeup; because, look, in the Pontevedra Town Hall — that you have something to do with it — do you know how many smaller contracts there are published in 2018? Sky! Like the Town Hall of Santiago, sky! And there hasn't been any publications since 2016 on a list of suppliers, adjudicators, most important contractors... do you know what formal contracts are published? Those of 2014 and 2015. No wonder you don't care. And you come here and say that you support the initiative, of course, it's better to support initiatives than to have transparency in the municipalities where they govern. That's the way! And, look, the president of the Fegamp — who is a socialist and should be an example for all the municipalities of Galicia — you know what he does with the Council of the Valdeorras Boat? Economic, financial and budgetary information: in progress. That was gas, gentlemen, that was gas! [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Díaz, the difference between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, you know what it is? See, in 2009 the Financial Regime Act was amended to make the budgets of dozens of entities that were previously not included in the general budgets transparent; in 2010 the contract platform was activated with all the information on each of the Union's contracts; in 2011 it began to be required to submit their accounts to the Board of Auditors in order to be able to access grants; in 2012 all the requested answers and clarifications were approved and made public; in 2013, with the Law on the Rationalization of the Greek Public Sector (which you voted against) you were obliged to publish on the contract platform all the requested responses and clarifications...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u359	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u360	...about the prices for no bidder to have more information than any other. With the Transparency Act of 2013, driven by the PP, with the vote against the PSOE, the publication of minor contracts, the publication of statistical data. With the Transparency Act of 2016 — which you abstained and did not support — the publication of names and the total amount of any staff expenditure and trade union addresses, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u361	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u362	Look, Mr. Díaz, in terms of transparency, few lessons you can teach us, in particular, and the PSOE, in general.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u363	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u364	And I'm sorry that you are now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u366	...if you regret that we do not present an amendment, when you never accept a amendment from the People's Party, nor are you able to deal with a single amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u367	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u368	Look back, look from the beginning of the legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u369	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u370	...and you'll see how right I am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u371	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u372	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u373	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u374	Thank you, President. Well, thank you for supporting this initiative by the En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block groups. And, well, I'm not really surprised at Mrs. Prado's intervention from going out on this floor to make opposition from the opposition, because it's the only way they have to endure... [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Well, I do not take as a personal attack the last consideration, because I do not feel flattered, at all, but I am part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group with the greatest of the prides, and on behalf of the Socialist Party we present these initiatives. And I say they oppose the opposition because instead of explaining why the Galician Council does not comply with its own rules, giving access to this House — to the Galician Parliament — of the autonomous public procurement, which is the obligation it has, there is no explanation. I did not give an explanation to the Commission's Business Council and I do not give the People's Group any kind of explanation, why? Because they have no explanation. They have no explanation! [[Applause]] And that's the commitment of the People's Party and the Government of Mr Feijóo to transparency, the fight against corruption and the fight against fraud. Because I remind you, Mrs Prado, that on 25 April 2017, at this very plenary session, a proposal by the Socialist Group was unanimously approved asking for an anti-corruption plan in Galicia, which you also supported; for today! Then what are we talking about? We're talking about liquid, which is what they can talk about, nothing more. For you, transparency is political jewelry, nothing else. Political nonsense!, absolute opacity! And the answer you just sent us the other day in writing is that now as there is a new contract law, you have to wait to bring that anti-corruption plan forward. I don't know if you've had a look at it — since we're reviewing all the local entities here — for example, the four deputies in Galicia. Yeah? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, the Crown Deputy publishes everything monthly from time to time, smaller contracts. I'm talking, Mr. Pazos, aren't you? [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u375	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u376	There's a bad habit this afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u377	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u378	There's a bad habit this afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u379	Please! Quiet, please! Let's finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u380	If you don't let him intervene in this matter, I don't know, but it's a question of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u381	Quiet. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u382	Well, Deputation of Lugo? If they have reviewed it and entered the portal, the Lugo Deputy is publishing a minor contract in an absolutely thorough manner. The Deputy of Pontevedra, of course. They have access to the House of Ourense and see if they are able to find the minor contracts. Try it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u383	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u384	Try it! I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u385	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u386	Try it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u387	Don't interrupt, please, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u388	We're already finishing up and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u389	Don't interrupt! That's it! Please, let's finish this. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u390	Town Councils? Mrs. Prado, the Town Hall of Lugo has been publishing all the smaller contracts since 2013. The Vigo Town Hall — which bothers you so much — has been publishing the minor contract since 2015. It is the People's Spokesman, former Councillor of Fairy, who considers that smaller recruitment — which is a legal procedure — is correct, but one thing is that they give you the hand and another thing is that you take all the shoulder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u391	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u392	Ourense Town Hall, try to enter the Transparency Portal or the Orense Town Hall web portal to see if there are any smaller contracts. Have you tried to enter the website of the Parliament or of the Council of Ourense to see if there are any minor contracts? [[Murmurs.]] Try to find them!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u393	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u394	The Town Hall — and the End — of the Crown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u395	It's over. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u396	Sorry, I'm done and we're all gone, I think with less transparency, but we're all gone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u397	To call order I am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u398	In the Town Hall of Coruña the rate of transparency when it grew precisely from 110 of the first in the Town Hall of Coruña was in 2009, when it ruled the Socialist Party with the BNG. Now you're not getting the tide to maintain a level of transparency. But do you know who founded the level of transparency in the Town Hall of Coruña in 2012 and 2014? Mr. Black's government, the People's Party. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-03-20-DSPG064.u399	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
