ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u1	We continue with the session, but first allow me to greet the students of the University Programme for Majors, in Pontevedra, who are now accompanying us and visiting this Parliament. Welcome to this Parliament. We start with the sixth item on the agenda, questions for the president's oral answer. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the president of the Galician Union on corruption in the Gürtel plot and the People's Party of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. Feisó. From the last control session until today we have experienced a real political earthquake that we can sum up in two milestones: the People's Party is the only party in Europe (...) and for the first time a government of the state falls through a motion of censure. [[(By order of the President and in the wake of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression was withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Over the last ten days that shocked the PP, you missed the opportunity to come to Parliament and carry out an investigation into Gürtel's Welsh plot. On the contrary, what he preferred was to give instructions to manipulate the TVG and recite to us the urgent argumentary that had been launched since Genoa. Thus, denying the corruption sentence of the PP, denying that the Gürtel plot is born in Galicia by the hand of Pablo Crespo, denies that the Welsh PP won the doped election with black money, denies the 1.8 million opaque donations to the PPdeG certified by Bárcenas and the 2,500 contracts signed by the Board in times of the People's Party with 16 companies from the plot, and denies that you hired companies from the plot for the 2009 and 2011 elections. [[Applause]] In any case, there are probably a lot of people in the PP who think that Rajoy's resignation ended the debate on corruption. But we're just at the tip of the iceberg, there are other Gürtel pieces left for trial, and we have indications that the Galician People's Party also had box "b." That's why BNG claims that at least those contracts in which Gürtel's plot is linked to Galicia are investigated by the Board of Auditors. If you have nothing to hide, bring the veto to that investigation. But in addition, (...) this caused the fall of Mr. Rajoy and this leaves an unknown one who needs to clear: will you continue as president of the board until the end of the legislation?, will you keep your word that the first is Galicia or prefer to postulate to preside over this party (...)? [[(By order of the President and in the wake of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression was withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] [[(By order of the President and in the wake of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression was withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Because, Mr. Feijóo, what would be indecent is that you use Galicia as a VIP waiting room while waiting for your plane to Madrid. What would be an insult to the Greeks and to the Greeks is that you cover as president of the Union and have your head occupied in the riots of the People's Party. [[Applause]] That's why you can't finish this control session without you clarifying these two questions: first, if you're going to give green light to investigate these 2,500 contracts signed by the People's Party board with the Gürtel plot companies; and second, if you're going to continue as president of Galicia or you're going to run for this party (...). [[(By order of the President and in the wake of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression was withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] We talked about this situation last afternoon, Mrs Pontón, we talked about this situation last afternoon. Please, Mrs. Prado! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please! I have explained, I think quite clearly, that I here allow myself to be led by the legal reports of the lawyers, not as in other parliaments where the lawyers are not taken into account. And in this case I have a report in which I have certain expressions that I must not agree with and for which I must call the order. Among them is the one you mentioned. So I ask you -- you know what they are -- to pull them out because if you don't, I have to pull them out and then call them in order. I ask you to remove those expressions. Give him a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u5	I, Mr. President, with all due respect you know I have, will understand that I cannot withdraw what you say in a ruling from the National Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u6	Thank you. Don't say that. That expression is removed and Mrs. Pontón has a call to order. Mr. President's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand that lately Mrs. Pontón doesn't distinguish the truth from the lie. You take three speeches, in three control sessions, amazing. The first, when this group was accused of not asking, not defending and not managing the freeway of the Atlantic and you hid that your lordship had voted against the transfer of the freeway of the Atlantic — for the first falsehood. The second falsehood, Your Honor, was when you, in the last session before now, said that we had done an audit on the boxes and that that audit reflected that this merger was not recommended by the audit company, hiding you that you always voted against that the Galician Board had asked for that audit of the boxes, that we finally did and that what they came to believe — not one but three — is that this merger was technically viable — second lie. And the third lie, the third falsehood, just reflected it today. He says the People's Party is condemned for corruption — third lie. Your Honor, the only parties who are condemned for corruption are their allies in the European elections and their partner who has supported the Government of Spain. Only those two are condemned for corruption from the point of view of funding their political parties. Mrs. Pontón, what's the matter with you, what's the matter with you, why are you so nervous? That's really the question we all ask ourselves. He even doesn't know that we sent to the House 2,500 contracts in December 2013. What you don't mean, Your Honor, is that, of these 2,500 contracts that referred to 16 companies -- that's new! -- 13 of them received more resources during the Bipartite legislation than during the People's Party legislation. [[Strong murmurers.]] Mrs. Pontón, why are you lying so much to the Greeks? I don't think you should lie so strongly. Something's going on in the BNG. It's not normal for the BNG, a nationalist party, to be against the maintenance of a financial entity in Galicia. It's not normal. It's not normal for a nationalist party, just to say thank you to the Minister of the Galician Sea Plan, to vote against the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic, it's not normal. And it's not normal, Your Honor, for you to go to Mr. Puigdemont in Brussels and say he's a brave man. Mrs. Pontón, I am indiginated with all kinds of corruption, affecting those who affect me; and, of course, those who affect my party, more intensely. I'm not saying this today, it's in the 2010 Session Diary, it's back in the 2013 Session Diary, it's still in the 2016 Session Diary, and I keep saying it in 2018. I won't change my mind. I never did. Unfortunately, I've never heard of you repugnating the corruption discovered in the Galician Nationalist Block. I have no drawback to say it. [[Murmurs.]] They repel me and I regret the corruption discovered in my party. We assume the mistakes, without any doubt, and it is clear that serious errors of control have occurred within the People's Party, no doubt, and that is why there is a convicted former treasurer and several convicted mayors. What I want to tell you, Your Honor, is that you must not manipulate what the sentence says. And what the sentence says, nothing more and nothing less, is that there is no condemnation of the People's Party for corruption, none. You're again lying to the House for the third consecutive time. Mrs. Pontón, in all respects, there is not a single paragraph of that judgment that makes reference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u9	...to the People's Party of Galicia, not a single paragraph! Therefore, fourth lie on a continuous basis. What I'm telling you, Mrs. Pontón, is that in politics you have to be without the need to go to the lie. And that's why, Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry your biography is full of lies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u11	Mr. Feijóo, the only person we know a hundred percent who lied was Mr. Rajoy when he was testifying about the corruption of the People's Party. Because he says it, in addition, a sentence, of course. [[Applause]] We've all lied, we've all lied less to the PP, which, as you know, is the guardian of truth. The voice of Galicia: "Justice condemns PP for corruption." Opinion: "Gürtel's sentence condemns the PP." The country: "Condemned the PP" O ABC, Mr Feijóo: "Condemned the PP...". Progress: "Condemning the PP in the Gürtel case." Who lies, Mr. Feijóo, when he denies the corruption of the People's Party? [[Applause]] But it's more. What this judgment says is that a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption has been created through mechanisms for the manipulation of central, autonomous and local public procurement, Mr Feijóo. That's what a judge's sentence says. And you come here to show us that all you can do is repeat the argumentary created by Genoa to such a serious situation that they neither ask for forgiveness nor assume the serious problem your party has. [[Applause]] And of course there are links with the Galician People's Party. You kept Pablo Crespo in the council of Ports of Galicia and never explained why. There's 1.8 million euros of opaque money, certified by a manager of the Galician People's Party, certified by Bárcenas, and you didn't send a single document or a single file of these contracts here. He sent us, yes, a list that doesn't say anything at all. If you have nothing to hide, Mr. Feijóo, let there be an investigation into this derivative of Gürtel's Welsh plot. And finally, come here, as always, to make escapism. You have to tell us whether you're going to comply with what Galicia is first or simply using Galicia as a VIP waiting room to see if at some point that plane leaves for Madrid. And I actually think you have every right in the world to postulate yourself to what you consider. I also honestly believe that, if the popular party's alternative to corruption that appears in Gürtel's sentence is a spell that carries in its backpack the photos with a drug dealer, really the situation of the People's Party is much worse than it seems. But today you can't continue to sneak and you have to tell us if you're in your head to continue as president or if you're really going to do it is postulate to succeed Rajoy. Because I think, Mr. Feijóo, that the Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve to have a president who uses Galicia as a waiting room and, above all, the Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve you to cover for presiding over Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u13	...but he actually exercises only as president of the PP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question by Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u15	In fact, I would like to thank everyone for choosing their political references. I have a series of vices, as you tell me, a series of manias. Indeed, I would rather Mr. Rajoy than Mr. Carlos Marx, for example; I would rather Mr. Rajoy than Mr. Puigdemont and I would rather Mr. Rajoy than Mr. Otegi. You're not, which doesn't mean, therefore, that you're wrong. You are still in the realm of Mr. Marx, Mr. Puigdemont and Mr. Otegi. We're going to continue without a doubt in the realm of a Democrat. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you have just made an intervention which is back in the Journal of Sessions because you don't read the sentence, read the papers. And then it comes to the conclusion that the People's Party is condemned. Mrs. Pontón, that lack of rigour that we're getting used to in her spokesperson, I thought, from the beginning of the legislation, that she was going to change it. But no, Mrs. Pontón, is that every fortnight you continue to insist on the lack of rigour, on frivolity. And it's going to happen to him like some other spokesperson from some parliamentary group in the House, which no one will take seriously, Mrs. Pontón. Look, what the judgment says exactly is that he was able to benefit from an offence, without knowing or participating in it — textually. And that's why the People's Party has been fined. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I would add, Mrs. Pontón, that this sentence is provisional. [[Murmurs.]] We'll see what the Supreme Court says. There is a magistrate in this judgment who says that he understands — that he is a magistrate — that for the PP there must be an absolute sentence, without needing to enter the prescription. Two are against this thesis; one, in favor of this thesis. There is therefore no magistrate in Spain who has condemned the People's Party for corruption — for now — Mrs Pontón. If ever there is, I'll be the first to recognize it and stab it. I understand, Your Honor, that for you to abide by the judgments is not part of your political ideal; for me, yes, you have no doubt. Mrs. Pontón, I am not going to tell you about matters that are still unclear and that affect your party and a member of the BNG Government. I still won't talk about it because I don't think it's worth it, honestly. Mrs. Pontón, if you want to ask me more, you have the next control session. We'll see each other again on June 20, and you can ask me what you consider appropriate, without any doubt. But I propose that you abandon the fallacy, the lie, the falsehood, the insult, the slander. It's just that this is very bad in the history of a nationalist party like the BNG. One thing is that you're wrong or wrong and another thing is that you become a party that constantly lies to the Greeks. And I say it with absolute cordiality because, look, I don't wish you, for nothing, to follow in political ostracism. But they have a problem. With interventions like this, you are about to be as irrelevant as you are at the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. And that's why, Mrs. Pontón, I think you should change and change your proposals and your considerations. I'm telling you with absolute peace. Look, Mrs. Pontón, since I've known the irregular activities of members of my party, I've said what I had to say: I'm ashamed of certain behaviors of members who were of my party. That's my political biography. In yours I haven't heard one time since you're ashamed of certain attitudes of members of your party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u17	It's the big difference, Mrs. Pontón, between you and us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Question by Dr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation by the president of the Conference of the Effects for Galicia of recent events that shook Spanish politics
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u19	Good morning. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, at this accelerated time the truth is that this open question I asked ten days ago today has several possibilities. Let's start with what was being discussed. The first sentence of the Gürtel case — quite a few — clearly closes one cycle and opens another up in Spanish politics. And I think the judgment — surely we're going to agree — has four proven facts. The first is that the People's Party was responsible for profit and, therefore, it is not criminally condemned because the facts, as the ruling itself states, are prior to the reform of the 2010 Criminal Code, suggesting the magistrates who would be convicted today. Secondly, the ruling, as proved out, said that there was a system of institutionalized corruption where there was a group of corporate couriers and a group of members of the People's Party who were in the institutions and in the party who practiced practices that are to qualify as corrupt — I do not believe that the word "corruption" is denied by the House's lawyers — with multiple ramifications, not only in the councils, but in several autonomous communities, central administration and many municipal administrations throughout Spain. Thirdly, it says the ruling — still a separate piece on this — that there had been a box "b" in the People's Party at least since 1989, from which the leadership of the People's Party paid regular surpluses; box "b" that fed into illegal business approaches of origin — I am quoting textually — with a marked finalist character — also textually. And fourthly, the ruling, collecting the thesis of the prosecutor's office, calls into question the truthfulness and credibility of the former President of the Government, among others senior officials of the People's Party — some still in active politics. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we will surely agree that we need to put an end to a political time of corruption and impunity, driving public exemplaryness in our actions. And I clearly condemn all those practices of this kind that were done by the militants of my party or any other. We must regain trust in institutions because that's a public good. You're president of the Galician Union, but I don't — I don't know — since the year 2000 — militant of the People's Party. We need, from Galicia, to establish a firewall, a clear separation wall between the practices of the People's Party and the institutions of Galicia. And we need it because our self-government and our citizenship deserve it. I'll ask you two questions. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, Mr. Rajoy has not assumed political responsibilities. If you were in your situation, would you have done what he did or would he assume some kind of political responsibility after knowing the judgment of the Gürtel case? Mr. Núñez Feijóo, there is one in charge of his party who, contrary to what she later said to Mrs. De Cospedal, said: "What we are interested in is the pronouncement of justice, because it is unappealable." Do you agree with this sentence or not? And that's important because it will be clarified by the citizenship of Galicia and it is surely also relevant for Spain today, which is its real position on these matters. It's not enough to apologize, we have to assume political responsibilities. And we have to correct those practices. On box "b" in Galicia, the statements by Baseles, Paul Crespo and a treasurer of the People's Party said it was working, at least, until 2006. And I keep asking you, when did these practices end? How did they end these practices? It would be good for the whole House and for Galician citizenship we knew. And I propose that we resume those initiatives of our group, among others, which were voted against by you and your group: the request of an anti-corruption office in Galicia, of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Galicia; the regulation of lobbying; encouraging the protection of internal government complainants, which allows...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u21	...control and correct situations like that. And, if you want, we can resume the closure in the fake Commission on Study and Prevention of Corruption, of the previous legislation, and give you a new impetus for Galicia and its administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u23	...to face these practices across Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, please tell the House that the People's Party is indeed not condemned for a crime of corruption, leaving evidence to Mrs. Pontón of the BNG. I appreciate it because it's starting to be serious about this. What surprises me is that you speak of "resentence" and then speak of "inapplicable", when you know that this sentence is provisional and therefore appealing. So when we have an unappealable sentence, we can give a correct, reasonable and proportionate turn to the acts and crimes allegedly committed. As you just told me, the important thing is not just to apologize, of course. There's a lot more to do. For example, Your Honor, what we have done is to define in the Criminal Code the irregular financing of political parties; yes, with the vote against the Socialist Party. What we did was to give them and impose criminal responsibility on political parties, not only by criminalizing the crime, but by voting against the Socialist Party. What we have increased was the years of disability and the years of prescription for crimes of rocket and of trafficking in influence, with the vote against the Socialist Party. What we did was to amend the Contracts Act and prohibit them from competing with those companies that were convicted of illegally financing the parties, with a vote against the Socialist Party. And what we have done was to strengthen and reform the functioning of political parties and ban anonymous donations, the donations of companies and the forgiveness — note, Mr Leicega — of the credits to the political parties, and surprisingly — or not so surprisingly — with the vote against the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And what we did in this House was not only accept the laws of the State, of course, but strengthen the control of funding, also forbidding the donations of companies and individuals when they are related to contracting companies of the Administration, with the vote against the Socialist Party. And what we did was assign the Board of Auditors, for the first time, a specific role in preventing corruption, with a vote against the Socialist Party. So, Mr. Leicega, in short, from the People's Party we are ashamed of the attitude and actions of certain charges that were of the People's Party, no doubt. Now, we feel proud of the broader legal block that has been made against corruption since there is democracy in Spain. This was approved by the People's Party in Madrid and the People's Party in Galicia here, with a vote against the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, as you know, the important thing is unappealable judgments. If you want to talk about unappealable judgments on irregular financing by the Socialist Party or the People's Party, we still have this replication turn. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u27	Yes, what I was talking about is that "what we're interested in is the pronouncement of justice, because it's unappealable" was you in an interview with Europe Press in 2015, it was yourself. [[Laughter]] No, no, it is that, if you do, justice has already been pronounced, and that pronouncement has brought down a President of the Government of Spain, who then marches as president of his party. Some importance, some roundness, must have this. I expected you to hold on to that position, but I see that you're changing positions depending on what you're interested in yourself. I also see you're very interested in what was done at Congress in Spain. It's okay. I suppose you'll start wondering what your future will be like, and also our citizenship. And your group is also beginning to wonder who will be president of Galicia's board in the next session. Will you be able to sing with Marta Sánchez in November, who's next here is me? Because that would be a good question to answer. [[Laughter]] And there is uncertainty that fights with transparency and clarity. We have the right to know what your calendar is, because it's a calendar of public interest, not because I'm more or less concerned about what you're going to do, but because you're the chairman of the board of Galicia and we have the right to resolve these processes quickly. Because interinternity harms Galicia. You, in political terms, are already here what Americans would say a lame duck, because you have a limited political time. And that's not pejorative, it's a reference for polythologists. In full recovery Will you push strategic projects if your horizon is months? Are you going to face the theses of your party in Madrid or Valencia when you may at the same time be asking the militants of your party to back you up with their votes and when can we disagree on such important issues as autonomic funding or infrastructure priorities? It's legitimate to want to be the highest responsibility for the PP. I wish you every success in that task. But you have to change quickly from skin, because you can't at the same time be Galician militant and want to be the greatest militant of the People's Party. And that difference... it's a reasonable tension, it has to be solved quickly. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] That's why I ask you for clarity on these subjects too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u28	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question by Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr. Leicega, I reiterate that, when justice, inapplicably, speaks, the sentence must be heeded, without a doubt. Even, of course, we must abide by all the judgments of the judicial bodies, even if they are provisional. There's a final judgment by the Supreme Court. Let me read to you, or the tenth paragraph, as evidenced: "In mid-1987, what was soon to be a conglomerate of societies whose primary aim was, as it will be said, the creation of economic funds necessary to cope with the expenditure of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party for the election campaigns — general and European elections of 1989 — which, without prejudice to the ordinary financing as well, would undermine the limits..." — Mr Leiceaga, would you not be interested in judgment? [[Murmurs.]] It's just that this one is unappellable, Mr. Leicega, this one is unappellable. So when you or the nationalists of the first party in Europe who are convicted of irregular funding, Mr Leicega, I now understand why you voted against the criminal code of irregular financing of political parties. [[Murmurs.]] I understand perfectly well, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Leicega, I'm sure you and I will have the opportunity to continue to enjoy this control session. You ask me this question on June 20th and, if you will, accumulate it with Mrs. Pontón. But what's clear, Mr. Leicega, is that, since I've been here, I've seen five Spanish Labour Party spokespersons, five. First of all, the respected President Touriño; secondly, Mr Vázquez; thirdly, the Secretary General of the Socialist Party, who was not here, Mr Bester; fourthly, my honourable professor, Mr Leicega. Mr. Leicega, can you compromise in this House that will remain a spokesperson within a few weeks? I ask, I ask from the cordiality and from the friendship we profess, Mr. Leicega. [[Laughter]] I, of course, also propose that you have as much destiny as you can. But that you talk to me of stability from your spokesperson, Mr. Leicega, is at least a sarcasm. But, Mr. Leicega, you and I know perfectly well that this motion of censure has little to do with that interim judgement of the National Audience. No, the motion of censure had been scheduled since the beginning of the legislation, but not since the beginning of the legislation of 2016. No, since that block in Spain for a year, that one's not in. From now on, you made the decision to arrive at the Government after you lost your election. We thought in the second elections of the year 2016, since they had lost more intensity than in the year 2015, you were already cured of that way of entering the Moncloa palace, and we were wrong again. Mr. Leicega, the sentence is an excuse to use, for the first time in Spain, a political party to rule the country after successively losing two elections in the last general elections. It's a simple excuse of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. You have no doubt, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] I said what the sentence said, you wanted to enter the Moncloa after you lost the election, no doubt about it. Mr. Leicega, what a time those!, what a time those when Felipe González won the elections clearly, stubbornly! What a time when in Spain the president who spoke to all Spaniards was a referendum president by the polls! What a time those of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Mr. Leicega!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u31	Now, well, if you want to be in the Moncloa and you can't pass a single bill, not a single bill! without the Catalan independentists, if what you want is that, Mr. Leicega, congratulations for so little. But I believe in democracy, and I would be unable to assume the presidency of any government after losing the elections. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, about the military of the president of the Union only with Galicia above any circumstances
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u33	Good morning, Mr. President. It turns out that initially he was Galician militant, and only Galician, now lets himself want to go through Genoa, lets himself want to walk in front of a black-paid façade, the headquarters of the People's Party. He seeks to be Mr. Núñez Feijóo a white merlo to silence the black façade, a white merlo who, however, has a black story, a black story that will surely not be told these days that he went to Madrid to present his curriculum. But, like everything in the People's Party, Mr. Núñez Feijóo also has a curriculum in "b" which he will surely not teach in that cassing which he will do these days in Madrid. So today, from Marea, we would like to address not Mr. Feijóo but the whole of Spanish citizenship to show him that curriculum in "b" that some of them probably don't know completely. To begin with, at a time when Spanish society demands more ethics in politics, it turns out that Mr. Núñez Feijóo sends a photoless curriculum, without a photo with Martial Dorada; that is, without explaining the relations with the famous drug dealer and much less without explaining what was the contact with the Government Delegation that provided him with those photographs as well-characterized as a drug dealer on board a smuggler's boat that at that time had already appeared 63 times in the press characterized as a smuggler and also as a drug dealer. Everyone knew it in Galicia except the future president of the Union. At a time when the Government had just been evicted, those responsible for brutal cuts that caused so much suffering to the Spanish population as a whole, Núñez Feijóo hid from his resume the murders of Sergas. It hides that there are currently two high Sergas charges investigated by reckless homicide and prevarication in relation to eight people, eight patients with hepatitis C who died when their medications were located in the shelves of Galician pharmacies. And that's all because of a policy of cuts that, yes, in Galicia the cuts killed, and they had a political leader who still maintains those who executed those cuts. At a time when cases of corruption are particularly repudiated, both in the governments and in the leadership of political parties, Núñez Feijóo hid from his personal curriculum that Galicia already has its own cases of corruption condemned — moreover, in firm and unappealable, so that the President will have no legal doubt about it. I'm talking about the "champion case", which condemned a fellow of yours from this bench as you are President of the Galician Union for the facts committed while you were already President of the Galician Union — we're talking about Mr. Cobián — and, in addition, two senior positions of your government appointed by yourself, director and deputy director of the Igape. But, if this was little, something that people will also ignore from their curriculum is that the Galician Union did nothing to prevent it or to pursue it, because they didn't even have the decency to figure themselves in the cause, firstly, to get a criminal conviction and, secondly, to get the return of the stolen. They didn't even have that dignity. At a time when the People's Party is particularly repudiated for illegal funding, Nuñez Feijóo conceals from his curriculum that Galicia has its own case of illegal financing from the People's Party. We're talking about "Pokemon Operation", which directly points to Count Roa, who was mayor of Santiago with the People's Party, for illegal funding from the party. By the way, in this case, he's already convicted of tax fraud. At a time when Spanish society is especially mobilized and sensitivity for gender equality, Nuñez Feijóo hides from his resume the cover of Mr. Baltar's sexual falconies, a gentleman who had no interest in offering a job in the Deputy in exchange for sex to a woman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u34	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u35	...something we all hear. And regardless of whether he was convicted criminally for that, the facts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u36	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u37	...we seem ethical and politically reprehensible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u38	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u39	A repudiation that we have not, however, obtained from Mr. President of the Council of Galicia. If, in case there is no criminal conviction, Mr. President, it seems a little bit, we're talking about criminal convictions. In the case of the mayor of King's Palace, convicted of prevarication and harassment to the secretary of the Royal Palace Council itself, the People's Party, with Núñez Feijóo in the head, continues to hold that mayor in his post, with the support of the People's Party, with the support of the People's Party in the municipal corporation. All of this is part of a curriculum that keeps it hidden. And I'll follow the curriculum in the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u40	Thank you, Mr. Villares. I've told him, too, and I don't have to repeat it again on several occasions. And you... seem like a lie, because you come from the judicial world. Mr. Baltar's case is filed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But how good! I can't consent to inaccuracies. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] I'm sorry, I'm the President of Parliament, but I can't consent to inaccuracies. That's my job, too. Excuse me, that's clear, Mr. Villares! It must be documented better. Filed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, please! [[Murmurs.]] Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, it seemed to me that Mrs. Pontón was very in need. I told him not to look like you, but obviously you're still more, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, I'm taking back what I just said. [[Strong murmurers.]] Mr. Villares, my resume assumes it with all my mistakes, with all my imperfections, I have no doubt. I will never use a toga to make politics; much less to prepare an electoral campaign and much less to prepare my candidacy for the presidency of Galicia. It's the first time a candidate for Galician Union is elected a candidate for a few hours to leave a toga. We all have the right to ask ourselves how you did to reconcile the independence of the judiciary and its political commitment not to be a concelerator or to take office in a government; no, nothing but to be a candidate for the presidency of the Union by several political parties. That's your resume, Mr. Villares. And that's why I think we should meditate again on that automatic possibility of getting into politics and, what's more serious, that a judge can pass sentences again after taking office as you assumed. I assume my responsibility, without any doubt, without any doubt. [[Applause]] I take everything, even assume you call me a murderer. I'm used to all kinds of falsehoods, insults and slander. And since you no longer consider him a judge now or ever, then you can imagine that what you say to me from a legal point of view has no effect on my person. On the contrary, that you are to a Member who, in addition, has been elected by this Parliament, by the Greeks, President of the Union, the type of murderer is something that is also included in his biography. You, Mr. Villares, can't issue a sentence again in Galicia or anywhere in a state of law. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, you tell me that a member who was from this group was convicted of a sentence in Lugo. You're right. The only thing to hide is that this deputy resigned when the summary was opened, immediately. You have a member in your group of whom you yourself said that, by reading this statement, you have several crimes, alleged, classified in the Criminal Code. I didn't say it, you said it. The honourable Member was asked to leave the record. You pushed your word out that you had to leave the record. Moreover, he asked the militancy—theoretical—of that called "In Tides" to vote. Your Honor, it is easier than an honorable President of the Government to leave the President of the Government of Spain than you can bring out a Member of this House of the En Marea Group. That is the great difference and the great greatness between a political party and another political party. [[Applause]] Now, Your Honor, I will not ask you to resign, Mr. Villares. Your resignation has already been asked by your comrades. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u43	Mr. Núñez, we're going to clarify an inaccuracy: Mr. Rajoy is not gone, Mr. Rajoy is thrown out, is thrown out corruptly. [[Applause]] We throw it out of the way by looting the public in particular interest of him and all his party. We haven't gone, we've thrown it all together, full of cuts, full of suffering, full of corruption, full of lack of ethics, full of decentralization, full of denial of diversity. We're fed up with the corrupt policies of the People's Party, which is why we all put it down. That's the difference. So talk to more property. It wasn't a fact of greatness. It's true that he said yesterday that he was going for Spain's sake. He could have gone before, which would have been much better for Spain than he had done before. But he did it when he didn't get any more remedy, when he was thrown out, when we put him among all of them. So, indeed, it was an forced decision and a happy moment. The murder category doesn't establish this one that speaks to you, it sets up a court, which is what the facts are investigating. And it's a category, by the way, collected in the Criminal Code. So don't be offended by these facts, don't be offended, because they're inscribed in the summary; so let justice also be done. And then there is something else — which I must also tell the President of Parliament. They don't confuse criminal responsibility with political responsibility, because they're different things. What Baltar did may not be a crime, but it's politically indecent, it's indecent from the point of view of ethics. We cannot accept from a political point of view that a person continues in politics after doing so. And you're losing once again a beautiful opportunity to condemn Mr Baltar's actions, because, even if they're not a crime, they're politically indecent. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Núñez Feijóo, from the resume your interest in knowing that you are not a white merlo, that you have a black story, a very obvious black story that your apparent curriculum does not show but that your curriculum in "b" does leave you clear. He won't give us any more time here talking about his championships, because you were a champion too. Apart from the cuts, he was champion of the loss of jobs, he was champion of the increase in debt, he was champion of emigration in Galicia, he was champion... yes, in all the inequalities that exist today we are worse than ten years ago. And that championship, that "b" curriculum you have, will accompany you for the rest of your professional life. That's why we recommend... and besides, you didn't understand the question. The question is not when you go to Madrid, man! The question is when you're going to resign for all these cases that are part of your curriculum, when you're going to resign, as Rajoy did yesterday, and when you're going to convene elections. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Close this question by Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u45	Mr President, I regret that one Member is beating the House every time he talks. It doesn't explain, indeed, how one can pass from one to another to the captainate of a candidacy, that doesn't explain. He doesn't explain how he can maintain the independence of the judiciary and at the same time prepare his candidacy for Galician Union, he doesn't explain it. It does not explain how you can render a judgment knowing that you are going to be a candidate for the presidency of the Autonomous Community by issuing judgments against the Council of Galicia, that does not explain. But that's your resume, Mr. Villares, that's your resume. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] He says, Your Honor, that Mr. President of the Government — I mean what he won the elections — was thrown out, that he should be thrown out. And then he speaks of another political person -- who also won the elections -- and says he has no criminal responsibility, but he is a political indecency. Mr. Villares, is it a political indecency to acquire a flat and two garage squares in a municipality where you don't live and then sell it and have a surplus of 19,000 euros? —the same person who said in the demonstrations: "No home, no yard, no pension, no fear. From thinking of housing as an investment ballataz to thinking it as a right." No, I don't ask you about Anova, this is from Podemos, the spokesperson for Podemos in the Senate. [[Laughter]] Is this a political indecency? Is it a political indecency to have someone who looks after her in the house without hiring her? [[Murmurs.]] Is that a political indecency? Is that one to throw it away or just consider it to be an indecent one? Is it a political indecency to disable a high position of Podemos at the University of Málaga for never going to college and collecting from the University of Málaga for months? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is that illegal or is it a political indecency? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, is it a political indecency that UDEF says there are finances from Podemos that have to do with financing from Iraq? Is that a political indecency? [[Murmurs.]] Is it a political indecency, Your Honor, to charge €425,000 and not to declare them to the Fairy? Is that a political indecency? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u46	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, Mr. Villares, quiet, please. Mr. Villares, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u47	But, Mr. Villares, if I'm just making a description of the facts, Mr. Villares. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u48	Quiet, quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u49	But, look, Mr. Villares, your role here we already know. The vice president of the House, who is not any monkey, said that En Marea is really an ornamental party. It's easy to imagine how they qualify the spokesman of an ornamental party, Mr. Villares. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Too bad the month of May has passed, which is the month of the flowers, Mr. Villares! In that ornamental area, they don't go for a walk. Actually, you're an ornamental spokesman. Mr. Villares, all our respect for the work of independent judges, for the work of those who don't use toga to make politics. All our respect for the judiciary. Fortunately for justice, you no longer issue judgments, Mr. Villares, you do not issue judgments. But are you really asking us to take it seriously when not even a partner in your group takes it seriously, when not even most of your group take it seriously? Mr. Villares, if we had any doubts, you're an ornamental spokesman. On stability and the future, Mr. Villares, please ask me not to call for elections. You wouldn't be a candidate for anything. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A little quiet, let's take it easy! It's good that we all follow each other a little bit. It's over, it's over, we're gonna go easy. I have two word requests. First of all, Mrs. Pontón. What do you want the word for? You asked for it first, Mrs. Pontón. What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u51	Mr President, on the basis of Article 76.2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u52	What exactly is the inaccurateness?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u53	The inaccurateness or the lack of a person's dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u54	He's been removed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u55	When Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u56	No, I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón, I've been careful, I haven't noticed anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u57	I didn't notice anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u58	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u59	No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But I let her speak, I let her speak...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u60	They said things that are very serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u61	I'll let you talk to her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u62	Mr. Feijóo dared say:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u63	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm gonna let you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u64	"Mrs. Pontón is very in need."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u65	I'm gonna leave her, but I also want you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u66	And that's not a minor matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u67	...take into account that Mr. President has withdrawn everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u68	Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u69	...have spoken about you in Mr. Villares' question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u70	No, no, no, no. To me, Mr President — I have told you honestly — I think it is very serious that the President-in-Office of the Council dares to say in this Parliament, literally, "Mr Pontón is very in need." Not just... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u71	That's it. It's not an expression that I see going that way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u72	Mr. President, not only because behind that expression there is a disgusting machismo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u73	Thank you. No, I don't see that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u74	...but because it degrades Mr Feijóo's moral process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u75	Thank you. Quiet, please. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u76	And I don't want to take it off...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u77	That's it, thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, that's it. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Quiet, please. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Prado, be quiet! Quiet and quiet, it's good for all a little calm. Quiet, please! It's the use of the word, we're faced with the use of the word. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u78	It's related to the call-to-command articles. As you made reference to the existence of a report by the lawyers about what can and cannot be said, it would be good if this were known by the spokespersons of the groups to discuss it and, in any case, to keep us to that. And that would prevent some problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u79	That also deserves an explanation and I'm willing to give it to her. Let's see, we'll have to give it to her. As you will understand, I've been here for some time. I knew what this question was going to be, and before I came to a full when I knew what was going to be raised, I asked the lawyers to report. And the lawyers give me a report, I have it here. But it is a personal request that the president make for the management of his debate and control of the parliamentary session. [[Murmurs.]] I'm here to listen to the lawyers. [[Murmurs.]] In other parliaments -- I would say one thing, but I'm not going to say it -- the lawyers stop, not saying "chimpans." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And let's leave the subject there, eh! [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, this is over. Thank you all and we'll continue. Proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and nine other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela in relation to the drafting of the project of access to the new bus station, the schedule of the necessary administrative processing and the contractual deadlines for ensuring their proper access, as well as the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia regarding the start and execution of the works of that station
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u80	There are no amendments. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u81	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We made this non-law proposal registered at the beginning of May in the face of the lack of news about the actions to be carried out by the Town Hall of Santiago in connection with the city's intermodal station. Although today, it is true, there is some progress, we must insist, because we are concerned that the Town Hall of Santiago is not able to comply with commitments in time and form. That concern has a basis for the Town Hall's own actions, and let me make a little reminder. The Santiago de Compostela intermodal station is an initiative that jointly drives the Galician Union, the Ministry of Development, through Adif, and the Town Hall itself. The three administrations, for this purpose, sign an agreement in 2016 with the objective of, first, renewing and integrating into the urban fabric the railway station, which assumes the State; secondly, running a new bus station next to it, which assumes the Galician Union; and thirdly, adapting the urban planning and setting up the necessary accesses, which assumes the City Council of Santiago. The opportunity for this action is not questionable after the service of the railway Atlantic axis and the next arrival of the high rail speed to Galicia. We are facing strategic action not only for the city of Santiago, but for all of Galicia, which will allow the exchange of immediate and simple modes of transport, thus facilitating travel and connectivity with destination or origin in this city. On the works of the Ministry of Development and Adif, we see that they are progressing in the commitments they have made with the performances both on the roads and in the service building or on the station's own cover. With regard to the new bus station, we know that since the German Government, we are moving ahead with great determination in the drafting of the project and in the bidding of the works. The adjudication process is now under way, which is expected to allow this summer to begin the construction works of the new building, which have a period of eighteen months and an budget of more than 10.4 million euros. This project, as we all know, of the construction of a new bus terminal integrated into the railway has a surface occupation of more than 13,000 square meters, which foresees the construction of a two-story building. On the lower floor there will be 36 routes, traffic routes and vehicle maneuvers; and on the upper floor there will be services of care for travellers. The project also enables a space for the implementation of a future parking lot and a bus service area. Getting here wasn't easy, because the Town Hall was busy in the urban processing and laying at the disposal of the land to incomprehensible limits. That's how it was for the Infrastructure and Living Council itself who had to justify and motivate the urgent occupation. This first phase of the project also collects the execution of a covered pedestrian gateway that joins the railway terminal with the buses, and that serves the time of connection between the Horreo street and the Avenue Clara Campoamor, facilitating permeability between the neighborhoods of the city. This performance is supported by a new agreement between the parties, i.e., between the Ministry, Adif, Unity of Galicia and the Town Hall of Santiago. A new agreement you had to postpone your signing authorization because of the Town Hall of Santiago. With this agreement, the administrations acquire new commitments, so that the Infrastructure and Living Council will carry out the works of the gateway and will finance 30% of the amount of the adjudication of the necessary technical stocks, with an investment forecast of nearly 1.8 million euros. The Town Hall of Santiago, for its part, will finance another 30% of the amount of the necessary adjudication and technical assistance, while it will have to make the necessary land available. At the end of the works, the Council shall assume the title, conservation and maintenance of the works. Adif, for his part, will draft and oversee the gateway construction project, as well as the funding of 40% of its total amount. In addition, it will collaborate in the work of possible affected services on the chain yard, permits and places at the disposal of necessary land and flights. Why do we say we are concerned about the whole project situation of Santiago intermodal station? Because in addition to the delays in the times of the proceedings that depend on the Town Hall of Santiago, motivated by its inoperation — Mr. Cal, yes, by its inoperation — the municipal government of Santiago, who had the opportunity to take an opinion and bring closer to the work of the other two administrations, maintains an opaque and intransparent stance on requests for information that are asked about the progress on matters that are their responsibility; in particular, on the definition of access. Mr. Cal, you're saying yes but we're really worried about the action of the Town Hall of Santiago, because you don't know, you're not able to process in time and form a record of this magnitude. Only through the press and newspapers isn't enough, which doesn't come out in the official bulletins. And it is necessary for the City of Santiago to give a boost to this infrastructure and coordinate with the rest of the administration the different actions in an exercise of responsibility and institutional cooperation. We cannot allow the date on which the works of the bus station are completed to no longer have the right access to allow them to enter into service in the best conditions, ensuring the full and correct operation of the station. A suitable access to the station and to the remodeling of the road which must be the improvement of mobility throughout the area and therefore an advantage for the neighborhood of Santiago, and also for those who travel day by day through our city. From this parliamentary group we hope that the plans and commitments made by the administrations concerned will not be altered by the new political situation, and that all the administrations involved will develop the projects they have commissioned in time and form. It will not be acceptable for high speed to arrive in Galicia within the specified time limit, and when that happens, Santiago will have to have an intermodal station that has all the equipment and access provided for in the consensual and signed projects. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you now have the opportunity to pay back the historical debt of socialist governments to the major infrastructures of Galicia, particularly the AVE. Let's hope they're up to it. And ladies of En Marea, they have in their hands no longer to be invisible in Madrid and to point out the fulfilment of the commitments made in railway matters by the State and, also, by the Town Hall of Santiago. And for all that, our parliamentary group today is presenting this non-law proposal that I hope it will be supported by the House as a whole. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. To begin with this intervention, make it very clear that once again Galicia receives a deal, let's say, disturbingly original. That's why since BNG we're very critical of all the administrations involved. Right now we almost seemed to be in the middle of the Town Hall of Santiago and not in the Galician Parliament. Of course we're talking about a capital infrastructure for this Santiago with the will of the future, to set up a new city model where you can leave the car and use the public transport exchanger; urban buses, trains and planes would be connected. That city that receives thousands of students and visitors every year, constantly growing, that city looking for urban and urban mobility shapes the way European cities, where people have at one point the means of transport they need. It's soon, more than justified, the need this city has for this work, though it surprises the rush now, PP gentlemen, that you are responsible for the delay of years in the approval and bidding of the project; fifteen years ago it's been said about the Compostela intermodal station, until a little while ago it was spoken, now it's come to you in a hurry. But what's not justified is the treatment that's being given to this city. The Compostela intermodal station will be of the second category thanks to the worst negotiation carried out since the Town Hall and the irresponsibility of Join and Adif. The project improves the current facilities, only it would be missing!, but it does not respond to the level that needs a city like Santiago de Compostela, because far from being a real intermodal station will be, less, a new bus station connected to the old railway station enlarged by a covered gateway. This work will be aimed at 57 million euros, in front of Vigo's with 126, over 93 projected, or Ourense with 100 million euros. Mediocre negotiation! The Town Hall of Santiago will have to pay, the difference from what happened to other municipalities, nearly 1.7 million euros for that gateway that is now building. That seems to be the agreement between the parties, when the train station is a competition from Adif and the bus station is a competition from Junta. So, he's going to pay 30% of the Town Hall, 30% of the Town Hall and 40% of the State. That we know, in similar works in other cities, the municipalities pay nothing. And you have more, the Town Hall of Santiago will give free of charge to the municipal land, the expropriation of the land as rustic land, and will also voluntarily assume the costs of maintaining that gateway for more than 120,000 euros a year, instead of assuming Adif or Junta. In no city in the state this happens, but in Compostela, apparently, we are special. The BNG required EUR 1,000,000 in state budgets for the deployment of the services of the proximity train. Ana Pastor was surprised by the record of passengers and passengers that had the railway Atlantic axis, which in four and a half months already ran around the million users. We have always said that it was one of the most profitable lines in the Spanish state, and that where Adif and the Ministry of Development were to be centered, it was on the internal rail network, because the nearby train in Galicia, by the characteristics of occupation of our territory, is more important than other things. In short, since the BNG we are very critical with all the administrations involved in the intermodal station, read: Town Hall, Together and more State. Does the Town Hall have a delay? Yes. The agreement adopted with the votes of the Open Compostela and PP in favour, and with the BNG and the PSOE against, is bad for Santiago, because it states that the reform of the train station will not be carried out until it reaches 3.5 million passengers. He didn't put himself in any other city in Galicia. It has a very low investment in respect of other intermodal stations and the convention for the construction of the gateway is abusive, look from where you look. We don't force ourselves to oppose the necessary construction of the intermodal station, but we have those serious doubts we expressed earlier. It's not our project, it has crucial aspects of ridicule and none of it to the city of Santiago; a disturbing treatise that doesn't seem right to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u84	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The People's Group initiative that we are discussing on the Santiago de Compostela intermodal summarizes the agreement signed in 2016 by the administrations that promote and the commitments of each of these administrations: Together of Galicia, Ministry of Development and Town Hall of Santiago. The exhibition of motives depicts the individual works of each individual, the disconnection between the administrations themselves and, above all, the lack of a common commitment for effective intermodality. Thus, the Ministry of Development assumes the construction of the railway station, the Galician Junta — the Infrastructure Council — the bus station and the Town Hall of Santiago the road management and the pedestrian accessibility and the intermodal. It is understandable that Development is limited to a minimum, especially when it is not tight; it is not comprehensible, by excess, the assumed by the Town Hall of Santiago; but what is not assumed, by default, is the passivity of the Infrastructure Council, responsible for mobility, by not intervening decisively and ensuring the success of intermodality in Santiago. And success is not guaranteed at all. The Council had the possibility to choose between two options, a minimum option, limited to the construction of the bus station, or a maximum option, to lead this common project to make the intermodality of Santiago a model of collaboration between administrations and a model of mobility in the city of Galicia with the highest rail traffic. By the way, choosing the maximum option would be the natural one, the responsible one, because it's your own competition. It does not seem to do so as a loss of functions because in the agreement itself — page 2, third paragraph — it says textually: "The Infrastructure and Living Council has among its competences and functions the planning, coordination and execution of the intermodal offer of transport in the autonomous community and of the passenger infrastructures". Of course, although he was already known, impossible. Unfortunately, once again the Counsellor perverts the meaning of intermodality by reducing it to a bus station. That's your commitment to the Santiago intermodal: the construction of a bus station. With this, the People's Party seems to be more busy looking for a fault for the non-operation of intermodality in Santiago than for providing solutions to properly coordinate this intermodality. And I'm saying this because Mrs. Counsellor was an acquaintance before the draft of the bus station report traffic report of the alternative road proposal for Clara Campoamor and access to the future bus station in Santiago. Among other things, the report says some of these: "In the current situation, the density of vehicles in the Pontepedrine roundabout is high, vehicles must stop and wait to be able to cross the so-called roundabout, so the speed is low. Also the roundabout in Pontepedrine maintains current capacity problems, its level of service does not vary in the future situation. And also in access to the Restoral Roundabout, there are queues that reach the intersection of the terminal. The pedestrian and round accesses of Santiago's intermodal station are complex and costly, but absolutely necessary." The solution was in the protocol signed in 2009, on 3 November 2009, but Mr Feijóo's Government despised sectarianism and delayed the intermodal to the 2016 Convention. That's right, a non-resourced arrangement for accessibility, which does not guarantee effective intermodality. From our point of view, the Government of Santiago has made a mistake in assuming, supposedly unconsciously, the costly access actions that operate the intermodal of Santiago. If they don't, if they don't, that's what's happening, and that's what this non-law proposition from the People's Party responds, the irresponsible Counsellor on this subject already has the culprit she's looking for. This is a project that responds to the interests of the People's Party. A project defined by the technical report of the Town Hall of Santiago, absolutely demolishing, and which, among other things, says: "It is not an intermodal station project, it is not integrated from an urban or urban point of view, it shows clear difficulties in accessing and moving users in changing mode of transport, it does not have the necessary pedestrian and round traffic access, etc., etc., etc.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u87	The Socialist Party does not share this project or share the Council's attitude towards its coordination obligations and that intermodality in Santiago is all a success. And that success is not guaranteed, because besides it doesn't respond to the thousands and thousands, and hundreds of thousands, of travelers passing through Santiago, nor does it respond to what Santiago needs. The Socialist Party will not be an obstacle to its processing and execution, so we will vote on this abstention project. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u88	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today the People's Party again brings an initiative in which it again shows its lack of institutional respect. For you, institutions are an instrument to your service and mangoes it over and over again, this time with this shameful NRP, another one, to carry out municipal campaign from demagogy and lie attacking another institution. What a shame they've reduced their political action, PP ladies, cuneiform, mud, demagogy and corruption. They behave as if they were on a 13-TV set. It was Open Compostela who achieved in his first year what the People's Party of Compostela scandals did not achieve in four. The Compostela PP of corruption, of accused persons, of convicted persons, of gifts of sacrifice, of breast-feeding. If you want to talk about this issue, about the Compostela intermodal, you should thank the Compostela Open and congratulate the Compostela Council for getting what you weren't able to do in four years. Because you've been in the Council for four years on other things and left the process at the same point where you found it, and you have the shame of bringing this initiative here to Parliament. I'm going to take a chronological review where it is clearly shown that the People's Party has stopped the Compostela intermodal and that it was Open Compostela who reached the final agreement in his first year of legislation. And you should use the replica to congratulate the Town Hall for its good work with the intermodal and to clean up the image of the Town Hall after the party's corruption. In 2006, the Government of the Socialist Party approved a first agreement for the construction of the intermodal. In 2007, Mayor Xosé Sánchez Bugallo announced a new agreement. November 2009, Minister José Blanco, Infrastructure Advisor, Agustín Hernández, who throws garbage into the rivers, and Mayor Xoese Sánchez Bugallo sign the collaboration protocol. April 2011, the Ministry of Development authorizes the drafting of the station project and Adif calls for a contest of ideas. The process was progressing until the People's Party of Breastfeeding came to the government. The People's Party is here, accused, accused, two convicted of the three mayors in four years. September 2011 is announced that Juan Herreros is the winning project of the contest of ideas. The new mayor, Gerardo Conde Roa, convicted, Mrs Prado, refuses to fund the part corresponding to the Town Hall. Mr. Count Roa refuses to finance the part corresponding to the Town Hall through urban use. February 2012, Count Roa proposed to the Minister of Development, Ana Pastor, that the station be located in Lavacolla, that great idea; he would probably have lands to reclassify. October 2012, Mayor Angel Currás, the second mayor of the legislature, the Infrastructure Advisor, Agustín Hernández, and the Secretary of State of Infrastructure, Rafael Catalá, create a technical commission to define the intermodal project. November 2014, Mayor Agustín Hernández, third mayor of the legislature, and Minister of Development, Ana Pastor, agreed to draw up a master plan for the intermodal. March 2015, Adif presents in Raxoi's palace the project to adapt the current AVE station. Four years to reach the same point, four years with PP lost in Compostela and lost to intermodal, paralysed the project for four years. In 2015 the Open Compostela arrives, wins the elections, bars the party of corruption and unleashes the Compostela intermodal. July 2015, the mayor, Martiño Noriega, asked the president of the board to sum up efforts for Santiago to have a real intermodal. January 2016, Martiño Noriega meets with Minister Ana Pastor to unlock the project. June 2016, after ten years, the Town Hall, Ministry and Joint signed the framework agreement for the construction of the Santiago intermodal station. The government of Open Compostela closes negotiations just one year after reaching the consistory. December 2017, Minister Íñigo de la Serna, President of Galicia, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and Mayor of Compostela, Martiño Noriega, present the project of the intermodal station. February 2018, the Town Hall began the expropriation process of the fifteen plots that were still not passing the public domain necessary for the construction of the bus station. In May, last month, May 2018, the Town Hall approved the start of bidding for the drafting of the remodeling project of Clara Campoamor. I don't know what doubts they have with the times of Open Compostela, the Town Hall, I don't know what the doubts are, Concelerating lady of the PP, obviously none; you're doing demagogy to do municipal campaign. You know perfectly well that Open Compostela, the Town Hall of Compostela, has done the duties. So it's also on the transparency page of the Town Hall and so the media reflected it as well. You know that in order for the Town Hall to perform Clara Campoamor's direct performance, you have to get the heavy machinery out of the work that Joina has to do. So, if they want to be agile, they pressure the Galician board to act and perform their performance before the Town Hall. You know perfectly well that this initiative is a shame, it is a lack of respect for this institution and the Town Hall of Compostela, which we trust will remain out of the hands of the corrupt for many years. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u90	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u91	Mr. Cal, you came here with an argumentary and you didn't care much about what your fellows on the bench said. Mr. Rivas Cruz clearly said it was a mediocre negotiation, a mediocre negotiation of Open Compostela. It wasn't a mediocre negotiation of the People's Party. If you want to put on the medal, talk to Mr. Rivas and decide whether it was a mediocre negotiation or not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You didn't hear Mr. Fernández either. Mr. Fernández made it clear that Junta must lead this project. Why? Because the Town Hall is incapable, Mr. Cal, in-ca-paz. Unable in times, and we're worried. Look, when they asked him from the Infrastructure Council to the Santiago de Compostela Town Hall to give a first project on how he planned to re-urbanize Clara Campoamor for access, he sent this: a photograph taken from a viewer, from a SIGPAC, with labels on the label. This is what led to the Council's insistence. When we had to postpone, as I said, the authorization for signing the agreement, it had to be postponed because Compostela Aperta did not put in the 2018 budgets until I had to put it, and I knew perfectly what the arrival had been since November 2017. He made the 2018 budget and didn't budget it. He had to do an extraordinary thing in the month of May to be able to comply with and authorize that signature. Five months later, Mr. Cal. And the processing, that bidding process, an example of the good thing to do of Open Compostela that hangs some redeployments redirected to another service, which have to modify last week's joint local government's criteria of adjudication because they violate the new contract law. Mr. Cal, what are you talking about, what are you talking about? That's the action of the Town Hall of Santiago, and that's why we're very concerned, Mr. Cal. You did here a storytelling, you began to mention that the turning point was March 2015, when the intermodal finally unblocked. In March 2015, who was in Santiago Town Hall? The People's Party. Unless it's for the People's Party of the Autonomous Community, the Government of the State and the Town Hall of Santiago, this intermodal station would be in serious danger. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I, Mr. Fernández, just want to tell you one thing: we are grateful that you trust the Council of Galicia to lead this project, since municipal autonomy does not interest you very much, but above all, given the performance of the Town Hall of Santiago. But I would also like you to worry a little about the representation of the socialists in the Town Hall of Santiago, because they've been in democratic fraud for two years, with three four concellers who gave him the polls. So, Mr. Fernández, it is a bit sad that the Socialist Party has little irrelevance and weight in the Town Hall to deal with the big infrastructures and the big projects this city needs. That's why, Mr. Cal, we haven't come here to suck through the board of Galicia, the board of Galicia goes for itself, we've come here worried about the capital of Galicia, and the capital of Galicia is currently in the hands of a council that we don't deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. We now greet the 5th and 6th primary students from the multilingual center of Silleda. Welcome to Parliament. Good morning, too, to the teachers who accompany them. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the planning of hospital care and the coverage of staff vacations during the summer months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u93	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u94	To formulate the non-law proposition... I'm not seeing Mrs. Solla, I don't see Mrs. Solla who is in this debate... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know, we can start the same and... but... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Start soft, start soft and goan warning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u95	It's hard to start soft listening to Santiago's PP talking about democratic fraud, it's quite difficult. But, finally, we can wait, anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u96	She'll intervene, won't she? Well, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u97	Is there any suggestion among the audience what to do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u98	I don't know, suggestion... I think you can start, she'll intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u99	When you tell me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u100	No, no, he's talking to me. That's why, then, please, just stay out of the way you're talking to me. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. Start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. President of Parliament, for now. We'll see, everything you can talk about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Miss Prado, if you have any questions about Santiago's PP?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u102	Quiet, please. Mr. Torrado, let's get to the point, let's go to the summer months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u103	We are bringing here today a question about health care in the summer, which is that, as you have mentioned here several times in this Parliament, it is already becoming a classic of these times, it is too important, too broad to be faced with a certain view that is also broad. So what we're proposing is -- just like we did last year, actually -- to move an idea of the need for an agreement, of common understanding to deal with this situation and in a way that can satisfy us all relatively and that can meet the needs of the system. It is necessary, in fact, of course, to combine a quality service with the workers' rights, that this combination of both elements sometimes has the need to be adjusted and there are times, as it can be in summer, in which the adjustment of working hours and shifts is more difficult. This, the difficulty of adjusting these services, will always happen in every place every year; therefore, what we consider is that we should agree on a common position, a reasonable position and a method of decision. We don't think this exists for now. There's a specific problem, there's a differential fact in Galicia, which is mainly the result of the abandonment that PP makes of public health in Galicia. Don't I know if this can be said, president? Don't you hear from the lawyers about it? I'm telling you, if you can't fix me. The starting situation is quite difficult, there's a staff problem in Greek health. There are numerous debates in which this issue has been brought here and in which we have always received the silence by reply or the decision or contribution of the People's Party that we are alarming public health. There are several data that may indicate that this problem is not that we will signal it, in fact because we do not do it, and we do not wish to do it. Most of the specialties of the Greek system have a ratio of specialists smaller than the Spanish average. The Spanish average has one of the professional ratios per capita in the last few years most descendants of the European Union. We are one of the worst-functioning communities in terms of personnel within a country that is losing capacity with respect to others. Professional schools talk about the need for more specialists; we don't say so by socialists. The councillor himself acknowledges, though sometimes with difficulty, that there are issues of precariousness in the recruitment, and finally, after giving him many rounds, his conclusions — you know — are to say: "Well that's what there is", which is not, from our point of view, a worthy answer to a counselor; five-day contracts or five-day contracts to be fired and then again to be hired on Monday, which occurs systematically in many places of Greek health, cannot be answered with a "then what there is." We compared yesterday — and I mention it again today — to the Greek professionals who had to emigrate, although this is a fact that is often denied here, and that they tell their experience in Sweden: thirty minutes per patient; in Galicia, fifty patients in seven hours, in the primary care system. There's an erratic policy in the Personnel Council that makes planning even difficult for summer services. The policy on professional retirement in the last five years has changed four times, about which age it had to be marked to retire health professionals. There are problems with the recruitment of MIR. We have reported here in the last ten years: less than 15% of the MIRs trained in Galicia have been hired in Sergas in a stable way, and this, in addition, tells people of the health system, as can be the Dean of Medicine, who is also a CHUS worker and who says that the CHUS hospital is of deadly quality and that it is unattractive and points out that in the health system the exit of the crisis is being harmed. Doctors generally ask for more MIR recruitment. What's the problem with all this? The problem is, when precariousness becomes a common system, there are legal problems. Greek health already has several judicial resolutions against their work policy. Some of them tell him, in the thread of a European resolution, that he is hiring people in a precarious and systematic manner to occupy structural positions. There are structural posts in the system, which are constantly needed, where people spend months and even years hired for days, for weeks, taking up the same position, the same function, and the evidence is that this job is necessary and therefore requires a stable contract. Sergas refuses and Justice takes away his reason and, therefore, gives it to the workers. We can't be in a system where workers have to recover in Justice what the system itself denies them, because it shows that the system itself doesn't believe in itself. Junta is convicted of dismissing workers for abuse of rights which leads to prevarication. And all of this, what does it lead us to? They lead us to what Galicia is today, as users say, Spain's third worst health; you know the CIS barometer. But besides, it is that Spanish health, which was a global example and which remains an example in their professionals but that in their system it was a global example and it was a model copied or even with the attempt to copy by many countries that did not reach our quality, it is today, after thirty years, a health outside of the top ten santies of the world. And this is probably one of the most prestigious magazines in this sector, which you assumed, gentlemen of the People's Party from a study on mortality rates diseases, they assumed that this was about health management and the kindness of the system. No, no, no, no. The annual assessment of the kindness of the system and the global system has been published very recently, and says that we are for the first time out of the first ten places. In fact, we were among the first ten, and we're at the 19th. That's his inheritance in Spain, and, in Galicia, the third worst in all of Spain. It's not a data we like to remember, but while you're still denying it, we're going to have to tell you that this gives us the data. The data tells us that three out of every four Greeks point to the need for some change, some with more intensity and others with less, some even totally, but three out of every Greek point to the need for changes in the system. And they point to dangerous issues. Like what? This year the CIS barometer points to a rather serious rise, from our point of view, in preference to private health rather than public health. Users say that, if they could choose, now 5% more of them would opt for private health care in primary care, 5% more than they would choose last year, and 5% more than last year would choose for private health care in hospital care. We're already above 30% of the users who would say that, if they could choose, they would go to private health, when we were at 25% last year, five percentage points in a year. Our public health is losing quality because of the management that is being done, and it's being perceived by everyone except the People's Party. Or, worse, the People's Party is noticing it, but it doesn't want to fix it. Why? Probably because you're interested. What we're saying is that today we're worse prepared for a reduction in services here than we were here at other times or what we're in other places today, because we have a structural staff problem that leads to a problem in the system. What do we propose? We propose an agreement, and we propose that for that agreement we make this year a decision that should be systematic and applicable for every year, which will be in the three proposals we make through the initiative. First, report. Inform to clarify. Informing, having data, having a tool that lets us decide where we're going to occupy, not in a year; not arguing one year about one thing, another year about it, one year about a data and another year about it. Inform. To decide, depending on the information, and evaluate to improve, if necessary, the following year. Inform, decide and evaluate. Because what do we have now? We have an obsession to cut. Mr. President, can you say "obsession to be cut off"? That's not in any legal report, is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u104	You have one minute and thirty-six to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u105	But you can say, can't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u106	For now, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u107	For now, yes. For now, yes. He's scared. We can't say the same thing soon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u108	I'll check it out, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u109	Oh, yes, if you can check it out, I appreciate it. There's an obsession with cropping in the system. Many of us would also like to see that this obsession for cutting has moved: when there are times to increase, like, for example, the winter flu, which had the same obsession, the same diligence, because they are excessively diligent in the People's Party for cutting; very fast, very efficient, but they are never the same when the service needs to be increased; I hope at least the same equalization. Finally, leave the cutrez -- "cuttle" if you can say, right?, it wasn't forbidden for now. Mr. President, "sweet" can you say, right?If you don't call me in order... well, thank you. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u110	Go on, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u111	I say it because, as Mr. Tellado just called me "knock" -- I don't know if you heard it. Can you say that, too? [[Laughter]] Yes, I know what's left of me, but I say it myself, if you insult me, from here I can say it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u112	If I think it's an insult, I'll stop it right away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. If you don't mind Mr. Tellado, can I go on?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u114	Quiet. Continue, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u115	Even if he doesn't, I respect Mr. Tellado. So if you're talking about it, so am I. Leave the cutrez — the health system, not Mr Tellado’s — and give up the cutrez and try to make a system more efficient. That's what we demanded. We propose that, for this, we need to have a certain possibility of understanding, because look, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u117	...one of the things that — I repeat — usually teaches us politics is that it is certainly volatile, and you, who usually act from the position that they have the property of power, can begin to understand that they are not eternal owners. And so from there, I think we should all decide on issues that are going to happen every year, in common. That's what we propose to them, and that's why we propose this initiative to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, you have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u119	Good morning. Well, actually, we're at the doors of summer and we have to talk about closing beds, that joke that likes to tell the People's Party so much: that the beds don't close. So the beds aren't enabled either, because one bed by itself, even though they persist in that speech that the beds are there, the beds by themselves don't provide the service that a patient needs when he needs to enter it, which then also needs the staff, the health personnel, the cleaning staff, and everything else, that's not automatic as soon as he needs it. And at the BNG we also do not resign ourselves to accept as normal, as it seems that, when this time comes, the People's Party wants us to accept, as anyone sees rain, that it is normal to leave more than a thousand beds every year without functioning, with the corresponding staff; we do not accept it as normal. Leaving these beds closed has serious consequences, both in the field of care and in the field of work. It means more difficulty to access health services, as much as they say that the bed resource is less important, it still has, and the patients still need to get into bed. It means less employment, more precariousness, and it basically means less public health and more private health. Once again, the Health Council prioritizes its cuts rather than the care needs of the Greeks and the Greeks and precarious to the quality of care. If there is no activity, there is no expenditure, and if there is no expenditure in the public, we increase spending in the private sector, because, proportionally to the closing of beds in public health, there is more activity in the private sector, because in private, paradoxically, in the summer they don't close beds, they don't go down activity, they increase activity — traffic accidents, all these issues — everything goes to private health, which does not lower activity in the summer. All that speech from the People's Party that in the summer, in which they have to have a vacation, all these professionals turn out to be that, in private, full performance throughout the summer months. Paradoxes, communicating vessels: we go down here, they increase elsewhere. Things you won't understand. Parallel to this, every year the same question: Darkness, we don't make data easy, we never have global data, we have them taking management away, and we see 80 here, 140 on the other side. Today we've learned how many are closing in the Vigo area, how many are closing in the Cunqueriro, how many are singing in the Mexoeiro, how many are singing in the CHUS. Data, transparency, clarity, light and tachographs, no, no. Every year too: we don't know how many, we're going intuiting, adding up from here and there, how many close between June and October, then we don't just know how many stop opening, then in October... that is, it's the same scenery every year. Of course — I insist — BNG does not accept this framework as a good one, it does not accept as a good set of the People's Party, since it is necessary for the summer vacations of the professionals and, of course, in this framework, in this situation where the Greek public health is, much less. We have taken initiatives before this situation to demand measures, not to close these beds, given the status of waiting lists, given the situation of drifts, and for this reason we also tabled an amendment to this initiative which the Socialist Party is presenting here today, and, if it does not accept the amendments, we ask it soon to allow us to vote on points. We tabled an amendment to paragraph 2 because we believe that in the situation where there is public health of waiting lists, of derivations, the situation must be reversed. We do not agree to hire depending on which beds are kept enabled, we believe that all beds should be kept enabled, because with the situation of waiting and deriving lists it doesn't make sense that they close beds when they are derived from private health. I guess if you want to give us a dose of realism, the reality, that you stop enabling. Of course, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u120	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u121	...we want to make this situation a good deal, and that's why we're proposing that you keep 100 percent of the beds you've got and replace 100 percent of the staff. And in the second paragraph, what we propose is that a technical commission be created at the sectoral table, because we do not think it would be good to skip the mechanisms that are established in the labour relations, and what is established is that the technical conditions of this sectoral table should arise. I think that's the frame, and that's why we make this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u123	Thank you, President. First of all, I'm sorry, that I went up to the office to pick up the laptop's power cable and sneaked up and miscalculated the time. Again, we are debating the situation of professionals and staff in the Galego Health Service, and there are several indicative elements - we have already put them forward - that show that a correct policy is not being made in terms of forecasting the needs of health care personnel. One of them is the most obvious waiting lists, also in primary care, of which we had no response yesterday from the People's Party, nor the last week from the Health Counsellor — quite obviously —. Every time there's a debate about these and something about social networks, there are multiple people who challenge the expectation that they have, both as a specialist and as a primary, referred to in an ordinary consultation. There's another quite obvious element -- and we dealt with it yesterday too -- and it's the chain of judgments contrary to the Council of Health, you continue, because of the bad practice in contracts and how professionals treat you. I yesterday referred to the last two: the first, one that condemns Galicia's board for law fraud, diversion of power and rooting out prevarication, something which is very serious and which also shows which is the heel of that presidential future; and the other, of which we also spoke yesterday, referring to that conviction of Judge No. 1 of Ourense, which condemns Sergas for violating fundamental rights, violating the right to equality and discrimination by sex when he does not abolish the whole of the supplements to a worker, a resident doctor, pregnant, who had a child, by a maternity permit. That's the reality: lack of professionals, judgments against them. And the other -- and most obviously also -- is the usual tone of threats to professionals, and yesterday we were talking about threats to nursing auxiliary companies and the insults we also heard in this House. We are proposing an amendment to this initiative, because, as we have already moved on other occasions, we understand that the problem related to specialized or hospital care, and of course, mainly with those emergency services, has a lot to do with how primary care is in our country, and we understand that we cannot give an isolated diagnosis of our country's public health by obviating the chaotic situation — it could be said — of primary care in which professionals and professionals are not replaced. We understand that the initiative was trying to be specific, hospital care, and we will understand whether this part of the amendment is not accepted, but we believe it is essential. And we also add EOXI reports, because unfortunately -- we've been asking for time here -- there's no reports. I've already said here that the Board of Auditors says only the EOXI of Pontevedra-O Salnés has a monitoring report; that is, the Galician Board has no financial accounts from the rest of the EOXI, and that's a very serious situation. But we haven't referred to health data either. And yesterday we were talking about research. Public health professionals can't access anything that Indra can, data on public health, do jobs and studies, or improve their attention, that is to say, see what and what are the evals of the different services. That's a reality: they're not allowed access and we don't even have reports. But we don't understand, and that's why we also amend to delete that sentence or that part of that phrase that refers to the comparable percentage, the percentage of beds that are kept enabled. As your lords know, we are not in favour of closing beds, closing beds, because the euphemisms are a little tired of listening to them and in the Health Commission, and last week we had to hear, once again, that the beds are not closed, making our message ridiculous, which is a lack of respect. Of course, the beds have no doors, and you could also seal them with a tape. I mean, if we go to the absurdity, to the absurdity debate, we will get to this point. We all know that, when they're not available, the beds are closed, there's no professionals to attend these hospital units, and that's what the People's Party does. We cannot assume such a circumstance, because, of course, on many occasions it is said that there are no specialties and that there are no professionals, and yet, repeatedly when we ask for, we ask for data from professionals that are not possible to cover, because there are, we are denied that data. In addition, there is an obvious element of why this is totally voluntary — and I will end it already. It's voluntary, because if there were fewer patients in some specific specialty, like pneumology, or because there's some specialty that fails, they would close the same hospitalization units every year and they wouldn't be moving the hospital unit that closes every year; one year, pneumology; another year, pediatrics; another year, xynecology, etc., in all EOXI. It does not obey a planning policy related to the incidence of diseases in the summer months, but it does obey an erratic policy of not wanting to cover professionals. So we don't agree on that part. We will wait for what happens in the debate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u125	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Torrado, I think today's got some time left, eh! Look at it cost you to wear out the ten minutes, it cost you, but it cost you well, eh! Apart from repeating yesterday's virtually complete intervention, not talking about closing beds, he had to do wonders to exhaust the ten minutes, eh! Apart from that custom that you have to use isolated data, for example the data of the health barometer, where you use one or two, for example the average rating of 6.49 that gives citizenship to Welsh health. You forget three things: the first is that it's the highest in the historical series, the second is that in the Bipartite years it was going around 5 or 5 and little and the third is that it's worse than we are Andalusia. It's all three things you always forget about. Just like when he talks about the government or Mr. Rajoy's time: he took out a data but he didn't pull out the rest. You talk about unemployment, you talk about the deficit, you talk about work, you talk about the rest of the things you should talk about. And we'll go back to the song of the Greek Parliament's summer. The song of the summer of the German Parliament is the closing of beds. In the first line of Mr. Torrado's initiative, he says, "With the arrival of summer, for years, Sergas has been planning health care for the rest of his life." We agree with the arrival of summer, for years, because at the time of a previous government, exactly the same policy was used as now, but we don't agree with the second. It's not Sergas who plan to go down to health care; it's the pathologies and vacations of the professionals, and of course the impossibility of covering many substitute squares, which we all know. Anyway, he has another even more curious paragraph, where he says, "Summer is a time" -- listen, gentlemen -- "of weakness for Galicia's public health system, where planning tries to cause lower hospital incomes, to have lower demands for care and therefore less need for personal and material resources." I think we're going back to pamphlet time; this is the pamphlet where we were said to charge for everything and that we had to vote for socialists so the People's Party wouldn't charge. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno displays a document.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Or we can also remember here that the professionals were accused of charging for high emitting. I don't know if we're indicating that hospital professionals don't enter the summer in order. It seems pretty serious to me. And what is clear is that the decrease in beds enabled in hospitals is done in all autonomous communities — I will not repeat the hemerotheca of other interventions, because it makes no sense — and in all countries. Beds are used or not depending on their needs. A proper health planning I think we will all agree that it must bring an adequate resource to these needs, and in Galicia last summer, the use of beds that were left enabled was around 75%. Based on that indicator and also on epidemiological studies, the number of beds to be used each summer is calculated. Let's give an example. She started talking about closing beds at Cee's Virgin Hospital; it's the first time we've talked about it. The IGC issued a press release saying, "After twenty years with our open hospital serving our people, after a time of crisis that made them fear at the end of the world, and after some are filled with saying that the crisis is already behind, the closing of beds at the Virxe Hospital in June is enough." It's not the apocalypse, it's the CIG press release. And what's the reality? For the reality is that the Cee hospital keeps all its equipment intact during the summer, which is nobody's exception, but it won't be hired personally when the beds aren't used. And do you know what average occupation of Cee's hospital was in the last three years during the summer? Year 2015, 57%; year 2016, 40%; year 2017, 46%. I don't know who would support replacements if there weren't patients, and I don't think the Greeks and Cee citizens would agree with that. I think we have to explain the reality of things and we have to stop talking about them. For example, the Health Area of Pontevedra-O Salnes has made the forecast data public. They will have 89.3 % of beds, and last year the occupation was 72.8 % in the capital, being free from 150 to 180. At the Salnés hospital, it was 64.9%, 50 beds as an average; it had a contingency plan and within two hours it answered the staff if necessary; and during last summer, in that health area, 120,000 consultations were held, 6,000 surgeries, 30,000 emergencies and 6,500 revenues were made. I think it's clear that in summer there's health activity, hospitals aren't closed. In Ourense hospital, similar data; in other hospitals, similar data. In 2017, 88.9 % of hospital beds were operated in Galicia, compared to an average occupation of 76.1%. It's over, Mr. President. With regard to the resolution, I believe that the data requested by the Socialist Party at the first point are public, including in the media. At the second point, Sergas hires every summer the staff needed for the enabled beds, as it couldn't be any other way. It seems that the drafting of this point doesn't really convince opposition groups, which amend it completely.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u127	I don't know if Mr. Torrado will maintain his position or accept the amendments in order for the new situation to favor the governance of accepting amendments from other groups. And with regard to the third, I have to repeat what was said in yesterday's motion debate: it is the authority of the Administration to plan and equip places in hospitals, so we do not consider the creation of that evaluation table appropriate. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. You have the floor, for the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u129	Thank you, President. I didn't expect this tone of reply, Mr. Núñez Centeno, but, of course, you have all the legitimacy to do so. You spoke of unemployment, employment, and went up here to tell me that I didn't talk of closing beds. It's a complicated pirouette, argumentally it's a complicated piruette, eh! but it's okay. Look, they closed in 2008 -- it was the year of that legislation where more beds were closed in the summer -- 520. You said it was grotesque — which I suppose can be said, because who said it today is President of Parliament — grotesque. Today they sin more than 1,000 and it seems to you that there is no need to think about it; for us, yes. [[Applause]] But besides, the information you give is not true. Look, the Salnes don't have 89% left, they're not operational 89% or in winter, not in winter! We spend ten days in the winter and we go those ten days to see the Salnés hospital, and I can assure you that more than 10% of beds are closed, almost 30%. And what we say is, it's impossible to make everything perfect at all times, but we can agree on a way to do it that looks good to us all. The data are not available — you say, "including in the media," only in the media, and incomplete. And we're asking for data. What's the problem with providing data? What happens is that you have a sense of ownership of the power that leads you to discuss and even insult, as you do here, those who discuss such things. And it's not true, it's not true. They have no possession of power, neither you nor anyone. There's a personal problem. You define from the Health Council every year that there's a medical replacement problem, and that's why there's a reduction in services. If you yourself say there's a personal problem and we say, well, if there's a personal problem, let's adjust it, as much as possible. With regard to this and the amendments, I believe that some amendments to the text are very well enriched by the text, the issues of inclusion of primary care. Indeed, Mrs Solla said that the initial intention was to speak of hospital care. But the inclusion of primary care is reasonable and we cannot disagree, and the issue of EOXI reports. Therefore, Amendments Nos 1 and 3 of En Marea will have no problem accepting them because they enrich the text. On point 2, there is something that we — I did, Mr. Núñez, who asked me about point 2 — seem to us to be of interest. We propose an agreement on this. And for agreements it's essential that no one feels 100 percent represented, because if they're not, they're not agreements, they're taxes. Because you only understand the democracy of the agreement when you rule; you are very loyal when you rule and are quite disloyal when you oppose. In fact, they've already begun to be disloyal to the opposition before they left the government this time. But what we are proposing is an agreement that doesn't even satisfy 100 percent, but that it is possible to reach an agreement through that point. Because what you're proposing is to make a joint decision based on the information and a decision that affects all of us. And that's why we keep that point number two, knowing it's a point that doesn't fully agree with anyone, because that's the will of the agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u131	And then I want to know what the People's Party thinks, if you think the deal is to give 100 percent a reason or you can understand other people's agreements. If we therefore accept Amendments 1 and 3. And I'm telling you our conclusion: we want a more efficient system, and you seem to want the cheapest system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u133	...and that's not our position. Let's see if it's possible to reach an agreement this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u134	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the constitution by the Galician Council, through the General Secretariat of Equality, of an inter-university working table against macho violence, as well as the allocation of the budget necessary for the development of its activities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u135	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Luisa Pierres López, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The German Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. To address SUG universities to commit themselves to:a)To develop a comprehensive study on male violence in SUG.b)Design a stable training and awareness-raising programme covering actions directed to the whole university community and also specific to each collective (PDI, PAS, student...).2. Through the General Secretariat of Equality to establish an agreement with the universities of SUG for co-financing of previous actions."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u136	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u137	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Since the BNG today we have brought this initiative to speak, to continue talking about macho violence. And I think today has become more clear than ever before what is needed to address from a preventive plan, from a plan of awareness, awareness, the need to build us and, above all, to screw up the machismo of institutions; also from the Presidency of the Galician Council and of course also from universities. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] From the BNG we have also brought this initiative to sink and move forward in the roadmap that marked the feminist movement on 8 March. A roadmap towards a society free of macho violence, towards a society, ultimately, more democratic, where women fully enjoy respect and the guarantee of human rights. And in particular, we drafted this initiative after the disgusting statements made by a professor who holds the public university in our country to the thread of La Manada's sentence. A teacher who needs to remember that he was sanctioned unemployed and paid for two months in 2016 by his sexist comments in the classroom. Apart from the reprobation that deserve macho behaviors, attitudes and comments, wherever they occur, public institutions are required to act to combat them, to eradicate them and, most importantly, to prevent them. Since the BNG we have made it by making a clear proposal, a concrete proposal in an area such as the university, which enjoys autonomy, of course, but is not an island in the middle of the Atlantic and which, therefore, cannot stand aside from the action of the Government, the policies of feminist action or equality. Universities are not institutions outside the relationship of power, on the contrary, nor are they alien to violence. And cases like this teacher are just the tip of the iceberg. That's why we propose the creation of an inter-university work table, driven by the General Secretariat of Equality and integrated by the three Greek universities, in which to adopt and in which to design the policies and measures necessary and project joint actions that face a common political and social problem of the first order. Actions that combat the multiple forms of macho violence, own of a patriarchal culture that permeates each and every one of the social structures, also the university. A work table that has two orders initially: the first one, to develop an integral study of the male violence in the Greek university system, of them all: physical violence, psychological violence, sexual violence, harassment, micromachysms, gender discrimination -- a study around the violence that can occur between the teacher and student, but also between the students themselves; violence that can occur in the classrooms, but also in other campus spaces. There is no such study in our country, none. But if it was published one year ago, coordinated by the University of Barcelona, where 62% the student who knows or experienced situations of male violence in university institutions, but only 13% identified them as such. In 25% of cases assaults were carried out by teachers, but in 91% there was no complaint. In relation to the profile, 24% of the cases were produced in students who had been in college for less than two years. What is the reality of the Greek university system? What's happening on our campus? We don't know. We need to know, to make what's a reality visible, but on what's just broken the silence to get out of the public light. And what you don't talk about, gentlemen, doesn't exist. [[Applause]] That's why we propose, secondly, the design of a stable training and sensitization programme that covers actions directed at the whole university community, as well as specific actions for each of the groups that make up it: teachers, teaching staff and researchers, administrative staff and services and, of course, the student. From the BNG we advocate the creation of this work table as a space in which we share the experience accumulated by equality units, successes and failures, their personal resources and, above all, acquired knowledge. This is neither rareness nor ingenuity, nor any violation of the principle of autonomy, as it was pointed out in a debate we had in yesterday's session. There is indeed in our country in other areas, such as, for example, the Interuniversity Committee on Linguistic Policy, created in the wake of the 2004 General Standardisation Plan, or also in this Chamber, for years there was a Joint Committee, University and Parliament to address university funding. We are talking about cross-cutting issues that must be addressed collectively and not in an isolated way. Since the BNG, we have made it clear that this is not a magic aftertaste that will make macho violence disappear from the pen, gender discrimination and inequality. But this initiative is a step forward in the development of the Gender Violence Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment Act, adopted in 2007, enabling progress to be made as necessary, not to say essential, cooperation and institutional coordination. But it's also an initiative that aims to stir up a self-comprehensive government, installed in self-comprehensiveness, in comfort, without ideas, without proposals, without a clear agenda or a road map; or much less after massive March 8. Despite data, despite evidence, despite the mobilization of the feminist movement, it was more than ten years after the first laws on gender equality and violence were passed, masculine violence continued to reproduce among the younger age groups. They live, reproduce and acquire new forms of stereotypes, myths, roles, attitudes, patriarchal and macho behaviors. Ten years after the Act on the Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence was passed, there are aspects of it that have not been developed. And among them is Article 15, which refers to the formation of all professionals and professionals, which directs to the Council of Galicia the guarantee and promotion of equal training for all professionals who work directly or indirectly with gender-based violence, including education. And teaching doesn't end at mandatory levels, quite the opposite. Since the BNG we have made it clear that it is necessary to take a step forward, that it is necessary — as we formulated yesterday precisely with a bill — to take steps to improve, to expand the tools we have given ourselves. And we believe that this joint work table can also be another opportunity to move forward in a space about which virtually nothing has been worked out and which is one of the most important socialization spaces for our country's youth. For my own sake, for now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u139	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. If we open today's General Secretariat of Equality website, on a link within the areas of action, we'll find a list of examples of good practice in companies, all of which refer to implemented equality plans. And among these examples of good practices, we found the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men at Santiago de Compostela University of March 25, 2009. By the way, drawing attention to the fact that among all the models of plan exposed the most novelty corresponds to the year 2010. A failure to update which we have already expressed and which continues to demonstrate the General Secretariat's disloyalty in this regard. In any case, the University of Santiago de Compostela was one of those pioneers in the launching of a plan to ensure equal opportunities for men and women. Plan that has actually been updated is currently in force for the period 2014-2018. One institution, the one in the USC, which was the first to set up a gender equality office prior to these plans by 2006. The statements of a professor at the University of Santiago de Compostela, through social networks, about the case known as "La Manada" made manifest that, despite efforts to be modely, to foresee and implement measures that concern equality, no institution, no company or body is free to suffer verbal or conductive aggression by its workers or workers and against equal treatment of men and women. Not even — as has been shown today — a president of an autonomous government is free to fall into comments with a clear sexist or machist. "Necessity," Mr Feijóo, we are all about education and education measures in the field of equality. [[Applause]] The University of Santiago de Compostela itself, referring to the case of this professor, in a statement, understands that this is a case that caused social alert. And, as a "dedicated" institution -- so it says -- "to the formation and transmission of values," it acknowledges that "it cannot tolerate attitudes or actions that undermine the dignity of people and fundamental rights, namely equality between men and women." From the Socialist Group we see these statements as totally timely, and we believe that the university has to reach as far as it can reach, opening, as has already been the case, an information file that is worth properly if there is a well-founded suspicion of crime in order to refer the case to the Prosecutor's Office. And let's not be mistaken: the competences and tools of institutions like universities are what they are. And despite the speed in taking action, which we applaud, what can be done from the administration and within the existing legal framework is always with a very low margin of action, not only from the university — as in this case — but from all public administrations. The truth is that since March 8 this year, we are living a true social revolution, the turning point of a historical claim by women, of more than 50 percent of the population, which shows not only the deep awareness that exists of the necessary achievement of real equality between men and women, but of the urgent need to take all the measures necessary to shorten the deadlines. And in this case we understand that we must ensure that all precautions and preventions complement the plans or workshops of gender equality, especially in the field of university, which is, or should be, the most prestigious station and, as we said before, the transmission of values. For all this, the Socialist Group agrees with the spirit of this initiative presented today by the BNG. But it is true that we simply disagree on a small nuance, because we understand that rather than instituting an interuniversity table since the General Secretariat of Equality, it would be much more effective than within the autonomy that universities have to be those who undertake to draw up a report or study on the impact of macho violence within their institution, as well as to design a stable training and awareness-raising programme that covers actions directed to the whole university community and also specific to each collective, to the investigating staff, to the administration and services or to the student himself. We are therefore committed to favouring this very initiative of universities, and that the necessary commitment and involvement of the General Secretariat of Equality is to establish an agreement with the universities of the Greek University System to contribute to this co-financing of the actions described above. We hope, therefore, that the proposed group will take into account our amendment to this single amendment in order to improve the effectiveness of what they have already submitted. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u141	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today we are again debating equality in relation to university, and we have to start by regretting yesterday's failure to pass the bill presented by the Galician Nationalist Block, which was discussed yesterday. And we checked again yesterday, once again, how speeches go on one side, but the actions of government go on another very different. Today the speeches weren't even on the other side. And we must also condemn the intolerable words of President Feijóo. But I suppose today the arguments will again go through similar defeats as they were yesterday. It's not a novelty that refers to university autonomy to veto certain issues. But we understand that it is totally absurd when the People's Party is the least appropriate to speak in these terms, because, when appropriate, they intervene in public universities. But besides, we understand that women's rights should not be subject to any premise. We're talking about fundamental rights, human rights, so we understand that's the only possible argument. We're talking about human rights, we're leaving that base. We have lived in recent times also with the wave of March 8 particularly damaging responses against women, especially the manifestations of Professor Luciano Méndez, for the media impact they have. Of course, we also condemn these words and understand that there is agreement in the condemnation of these manifestations. But in spite of the unanimous view that these barbarities are totally unacceptable, this condemnation must lead to political proposals that prevent this from happening again. We cannot only stay in the complaint and condemnation, but we must put in place measures, as I said, to prevent similar situations from happening again in the situation. Because, unfortunately, although this case is very mediatic, it's not the only one. Perhaps other attitudes are more normalized, macho comments totally normalized, but we also have to fight. And as long as we don't take it seriously that the gender training of teachers is fundamental, the effective implementation of the gender perspective in the whole university, in the whole of institutions, because little will be able to move forward. As I said, maybe some comments are more acceptable, but that's not why they're not the same as lesbians and reproduce sexist comments. That's why we understand that today's proposal is positive, because it makes us move forward on a concrete proposal: a work table that serves us to analyze masculine violence in the university field. In addition, we share the objectives described in the proposal that would have this table. Because training is essential, we have repeated it many times, training in gender, and we must also understand that training must meet the specific needs of each collective. And as I say, there's a particularly relevant fact: teachers have a capacity to reach a very large percentage of society, so it's especially important to have gender training. I'm not saying that gender training should not be transversal and to all people and society as a whole, we defend that, but especially teachers, who have that ability to reproduce or change certain gender roles and attitudes, because we understand that it is perhaps even more important. The data leaves a very worrying reality. He had already commented on the BNG voicer the study carried out by four Catalan universities breaking the silence in universities. That 62% of students claim that they have suffered or experienced some kind of abuse is an absolute amount of gravity. And even today we knew a survey of the social perception of sexual violence elaborated by the Government Delegation, which also left very alarming data, as 50% of men found that alcohol is often the cause of rape, and up to 15% thought that if the victim was drunk she had some guilt; not to say that it was also understood that women who had a lot of sexual intercourse had less capacities, they believed less; and also that women who decided to walk alone on dark roads might have some fault. And these surveys do not fail to show the dramatic reality that we have that sexual violence continues to be normalized, it continues to be in all spheres of life, it affects many women. That's why we have to intervene in all areas. For us, university is a priority area, education in general is a priority area for education in equality. That is why we agree with this proposal and we believe that it should be adopted unanimously, because it calls for a very basic question, which is that the General Secretariat has a constant dialogue. And we understand that university autonomy cannot be the pretext when we're talking about rights that are fundamental and women's rights. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u143	Good morning. To begin my intervention, I think it's very interesting to know that here you can say something, make a mistake and ask you to withdraw. But, well, there are situations that are much more serious. At no time, when Mr. Iglesias was talking about a journalist "The Nitrogen Until He Blooded" and "I'm a Marxist converted to psychopath," we don't listen to anyone from his parliamentary group, from En Marea in this case, criticize these situations. A PSOE concierge in La La Laguna: "I fuck with maids who plug in the Town Hall," a few months ago. With which all these comments from employees who are in the PSOE council and who ask for sexual favors in return are also situations that are occurring within the other rows. I, to begin with my intervention, leaving this story of events that, unfortunately, are going through and through, hopefully they're no longer... we're going to work on what we're dealing with here. From the People's Parliamentary Group we are totally against any kind of violence and, of course, against any kind of masculine violence: psychology, physics, sexual and labor. We're going to work and we're working to stop this from happening. Mrs. Rodil, what you bring to this parliament today is not enough. I understand that we live in the media boiling, but don't fall into the pandereta politics. We cannot allow ourselves to be led by the rebuffing of the media, which, of course, does a fundamental task, but parliamentary work is another. We could also talk here about the court of Lugo who puts the letters, but we know it's not proper, it's not true. But you on the subject of equality seek their political content and let themselves be influenced by media boiling. I repeat that this non-legislative proposal is not in the parliamentary debate for three reasons: it must not be the news, however loud these are, those that drive the work in this chamber; the university has already adopted the decision it had to make, and as an autonomous one did what it had to do: it opened a dossier to the professor, it is analyzing the case in case it is necessary to refer it to the Prosecutor's Office; and university education, as you know, is a public service and the Greek university system is its provider in our community through the institutions that are part of it. As you well know, article 2 of the law itself guarantees university autonomy, based on the principle of academic freedom, which manifests itself in the freedoms of chair, research and study. And the universities that are members of the Galician University System will collaborate with the public authorities in achieving these aims and objectives. In Chapter I of Title I, Article 4, "Legal regime and organizational principles", he speaks and states that "Each university has its own legal personality and heritage and is governed by the state rules of application of its rules." Thus, public universities are governed by their respective statutes and regulations that develop them. Thus, universities have legally recognized their autonomy, as Mrs. Prado said yesterday. But there are equality units within the university itself, equality offices, equality plans and, of course, a protocol against sexual harassment at the university itself. The actions of the Government of Galicia regarding education and with regard to the Galician university system are not looking elsewhere either, but there is a job being done. A work in which we have often collaborated with all parliamentary groups, as was the adoption in this chamber itself of a non-law proposition, supported by all groups, which presented the Nationalist Block of Wales, to implement a subject of gender equality at the university itself. Also in the face of the State Covenant against Gender Violence, we proposed that within the State Covenant for Education should include matters and plans that work cross-borderly on gender equality and the fight against male violence. And we also have a line to follow within the 7th Strategic Equal Opportunities Plan 2017-2020; the strategy in education and values indicates very clear targets. I just wanted to summarize what we're talking about. The university has legally recognized its autonomy, the university has taken the right measures, has issued the professor and is valuing taking the subject to the Prosecutor's Office. And the Government of Galician Union works, generates, develops, and increases positive data on equal education. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, they don't want to do as they do with the galescolas, with their taxes. We are already accustomed to their interventionist policies, they respect the independence and freedom of the university, which requires no one's lessons, and much less the Galician Nationalist Block, to do their work. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u144	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u145	Thank you, President. I don't think you ever know one where you can go over the limit of surprise in here, do you? Regarding the comments you referred to or some attitudes we could see in the media, thanks to what exists, it's also true. For example, the attitude you had with the Spanish government's vice president until recently, as an authority, behaviour and an absolutely masquerading attitude were exercised over it. These comments and attitudes show that we are facing a patriarchal and machist culture, Mrs. Míguez, and that there is a lot to work on, that there is a lot to build in political organizations, in all, and in all the plans and institutions of our society. What it can't be is that we're in the face of reality, in this case of this professor -- I'm not going to mention his name, because that's what he's looking for, among other things -- and you think you can just hurry up and open a sanctioning file inside the university. That's why I remembered a file that was already opened in 2016, and that didn't make him at least change neither of appearance nor of attitude. What we can't do is cross our arm. And that's why we said from the BNG that this initiative was also to stir up a self-comprehensive and comfortable government, who thinks it's all done and what they give him absolutely equal not the press news. [[Applause]] You take the last report you recently issued from the General Council of the Judiciary on allegations of violence against men and go to the younger age groups, under the age of 30. Is it acceptable, is it acceptable for a society that is said to be democratic that we have half or more of the population excluded from the guarantee of fundamental rights most elementary? All we ask for are joint working spaces, cooperation, cooperation between institutions; autonomy has everything, freedom of chair absolutely. But that does not exempt us from the fact that the Greek university system cannot be treated like an island in the middle of the Atlantic. All government policies and actions aimed at eradicating macho violence, all forms of macho violence, have to impregnate all social institutions, all of them, and also the university, which is where we entered the door at the age of 18, and we left the 20th. It's an area of fundamental socialization, it goes beyond combat, macho violence and struggle for equality, from academic curricula, it goes beyond that. And the only way we can move forward in a more democratic and fairer society is to get all of us to work, and to do it in a coordinated and cooperative way. What you talked about here -- and with this already finished -- university autonomy is an excuse. And it's an absolutely cheap excuse not to put it in the agenda of what we're talking about today, the need to continue working with policies and measures they're fighting, they're dealing with the violence of macho in all the structures that make up this society. We saw it yesterday, when they voted against the BNG bill, they will now vote against this non-law proposal again, and what we see is comfort, self-comprehensiveness and no interest or even the least to keep moving forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u146	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u147	On the amendment of the Socialist Party, we're going to try to get into a transaction. If it seems to you, Mrs. Pierres, we want to put upon the table the need to create that space, to put on the table that interuniversity table, and we hope to reach an agreement. For my part, nothing more than to regret what you're going to do now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Before we go to the polls, we greet the fifth and sixth primary students from downtown Xoaquín Loriga, Prado, Lalin. Welcome to Parliament! Also his teachers and escorts. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u149	Let's start with the votes. Close the doors, please. [[One honourable Member is addressed to the President of Parliament.]] Transaction? Yeah, just a moment. [[Pause.]] First of all, we are voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Carmen Santos. An amendment to the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted. We therefore vote on the text that has been negotiated. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Juan José Merlo Lorenzo, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the implementation of the figure of unjust or illegal enrichment in the Criminal Code, in order to advance in the fight against corruption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted. We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, defended on behalf of Mrs Encarna Amigo. The amendments were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the promotion and reception by the Government of Greece, in addition to public investment in health technology, of all those acts of witchcraft which result in an improvement in the service to the patient. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 17 with abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Luis Villares. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted, but there is a transaction, understand? Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u150	It's just that there's a few amendments in exchange for a point vote. We shall vote on the original initiative but on points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u151	Let's vote for points. We start by voting points. That's six points, and then we start by voting first point number one. We voted for point 1 of this non-law proposal. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reform of the system of election of vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary and the guarantee of independence of the judiciary. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 49; votes against, 14; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this text is therefore adopted. We now vote point 2 of this non-law proposal. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reform of the system of election of vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary and the guarantee of independence of the judiciary. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. Point 2 of this text is therefore adopted. We now vote point 3 of this non-law proposal. Vote of point 3 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reform of the system of election of vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary and the guarantee of independence of the judiciary. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of this text is therefore rejected. We now vote point 4 of the non-law proposal. Vote of point 4 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reform of the system of election of vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary and the guarantee of independence of the judiciary. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Point 4 of this text is therefore rejected. We now vote point 5. Vote of point 5 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reform of the system of election of vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary and the guarantee of independence of the judiciary. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Point 5 of this text is therefore rejected. And now, finally, we are voting on point 6 of the non-law motion. Vote of point 6 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reform of the system of election of vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary and the guarantee of independence of the judiciary. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. Point 6 of this text is therefore adopted. We now vote first, although it has been debated together, the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept the point vote? No, no, no, no. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in connection with the proposal for the unification of aid programmes for unemployed persons, as well as the compatibility between unemployment benefits and social income. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 25 votes against, 38 abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We are now voting for the non-legislative proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms. Monserrat Prado Cores. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the benefits of a nature of care and unemployment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We are now voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Mrs Vilasánchez. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and nine other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela in connection with the drafting of the project of access to the new bus station, the schedule of the necessary administrative processing and the contractual deadlines for ensuring their proper access, as well as the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia regarding the start and execution of the works of that station. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 11; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. There were amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea. Mr. Torado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u152	Amendment Nos 1 and 3 of the En Marea Group are accepted and there was a request for points we did not consider.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u153	Points 1 and 3 of En Marea are accepted and number 2 is not accepted. So we voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia regarding the planning of hospital care and the coverage of staff vacations during the summer months. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected on this non-law proposal. And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil. A transaction is pending. If you don't read it, Mrs. Rodil...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u154	Yes, the transaction would be as follows: """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 1st. Heading to the universities of the Greek university system to set up an interuniversity work table aimed at: (a)To prepare a comprehensive study on macho violence in the Greek university system. (b) Designing a stable training and awareness-raising programme directed at the whole university community and also specific for each collective: PDI, PAS, student. 2nd. Through the General Secretariat of Equality, to establish an agreement with the universities of SUG for co-financing of previous actions".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the constitution by the Galician Council, through the General Secretariat of Equality, of an inter-university working table against macho violence, as well as the allocation of the budget necessary for the development of its activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected on this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u156	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the fifth item on the agenda, interpellations. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo's interpellation and three more of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the treatment of liquid waste
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u157	Mrs Vilán has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u158	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. When the questions were asked to the president, there were a group of students at the University of Vigo senior university, and when they went out, they told me that they were hallucinated by some of the answers that the president of the board had given to the opposition spokespersons. Of course, now listen here that "if you're more because in La Laguna and I don't know where...", phrases like that. When the struggle for equality is a government in which there are fewer women than men, for the truth is that it would rotate a little. You learn from the Government of Spain, where there will be more women than men. [[Applause]] And from then on, we can start talking about equality on an equal footing. Inheritance received, Counselor. In March 2009 — and we're in June 2018 — more than nine years passed — they were only without bidding two debuggers: in Poio-Sanxexo, in Pontevedra, and in Ribeira, in Coruña. Poio-Sanxenxo is still a phantom debugger, perhaps because it overrides the ghost of some constructor over Pampaido, and that is why it is no longer the possibility of a debugger for support. And the one in Ribeira you know how it is, the neighbors of Ribeira have already told her how to shout when they came here the day she was asked the question about the debugger. Counselor, you know it directly through them. The European Union is very concerned about this waste in debugging. In 2013 several MEPs had come to Galicia to control the debugging of three rivers: Burgo, Ferrol and Vigo. This was the project of the working document that they made, there was a final report, a final document, and they concluded — literally — "The areas of our laughs that are still very productive are in grave danger if no action is taken, because the condition of these areas is potentially threatened if there is no urgency to resolve the issues that this report itself collects." [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows the House a document.]] In that same report it was said that serious infringements of the European Union's water legislation have been committed over the years. Galicia has a problem of debugging — you know — and we understand — an integral action on the rivers for its environmental recovery, for its productive recovery. And we understand that for you it should be a priority, Counselor. I'll give you three or four examples: Ría de Arousa: contaminated; production that falls, berberech that dies, plum that dies and tides red and toxin that have strangled the growers of mussel. One of the main reasons for the contamination of the Arousa River is the poor purification of the city of Compostela and its area. And this is not an isolated case — as the former president of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, would say — because all the debuggers in Galicia are overpassed, counsellor, all those in the urban areas. And in Noia and Ribeira it is not known whether the underwater tower emissary for sanitation is done or not according to the project—it is the matter in the courts—; storm tanks and syphons work badly; there are garbage and water vegetables not properly purified to the sea—we are talking about an environmentally special area, because it is between the Corrubedo natural parks and the Natural Park of the Atlantic Islands—; there are more than five complaints due to health problems resulting from the malfunction of EDAR, which is under testing, which continues to be tested; technical reports on this EDAR say that very high sulphide measurements are observed in pumping stations. And you recognized these problems in the plenary when the question was asked to you. And when you went looking for the neighbors in the hallway, which is behind there, he recognized that they had a problem; he promised them that he would fix it, but he still didn't. So much so that in May of this year, in the case of a complaint by one of the neighbours, the Environment Prosecutor's Office decided to open information on criminal investigation for the possible existence of potentially contaminating and dangerous greens for the environment that could constitute a crime. Ría de Pontevedra: contaminated; with toxins that keep much of the year closed, with frustration of drummers and marishers, and with reason, for they are waiting for the measures of their council since 2001. We don't know what happens to debugging in Poio, in Pontevedra, in Marín, Bueu... because what happens is that in the stream of Pontevedra, already its right margin, had already been declared sensitive by the waters of Galicia in 2001. Seventeen years have passed, Counselor! It happens that the plant of the Praceres — which is managed directly by the waters of Galicia, and therefore is its responsibility — which deals with the waters of Pontevedra, Marín, Poio, Sanxenxo, Vilaboa and Ponte Caldelas, in whole or in part, decanting but not depurating. I mean, tamizes -- I don't know if to say it in an elegant way, I'm going to say it elegantly -- the urban waste that comes from the dwellings, but it doesn't clear. And it happens that the president of the Union in 2016 said that Pontevedra's laugh was his priority, perhaps because the European Union sanctioned us in 2014. Apparently, you were working in 2016 on that priority work for you before the end of 2016 itself — we're in 2018. You yourself appeared before the media in Pontevedra to say that you had a million and a half euros to draft the local sanitation plan of the river, which had four million for the improvements of the hydraulic infrastructure in Marin. We don't know where the collectors are or when the work will be finished, probably after the municipal elections; sure. And then you also said that there were 5.7 million euros for the construction of Poio's debugger, and we'd like to know where it will be put, and 45 million euros for EDAR of Pleasures, derived from the Feder European funds. And those 45 million euros, advisor, you're sure you're going to say they went to a sanitation plan, where they're working, and maybe to a baptistery study of your advice. The curious thing is that when the head of Galician Waters was last week — ten days ago — meeting with the municipalities that are affected by the non-purification of the EDAR of Pleasures, he spoke of a baptistery study and taught some plans in which there were errors. Such terrible errors as one of Poio's emissaries, which is nearer to Sanxenxo -- "Sanxenxo" and not "Sanjenjo" -- because it was wrong; it wasn't there, it was elsewhere, and they told him. So to spend the money in a baptistery study done by the technicians without knowing where the sites are, because the truth is it's a very bad start, counselor. There is a European Union Court of Justice sentence of March 2016. He also condemns us, above all, for the agglomerations of Pontevedra, Marín, Poio and Bueu. And, in fact, the Commission sent to the previous Government of Spain a letter asking for explanations, and we are still waiting for the answer; the Commission is also analysing what they are going to do. Burgo laughs: contaminated; it often closes to the shellfish. Parliamentarians already told him in this report that it was necessary to improve the quality of water, the extraction of sludge, which reaches 2 meters deep, and its treatment. EDAR de Santiago. At the end of 2014 — in 2011 and in 2013 too — the European Commission said it would also denounce Spain for the failure of a proper system of treatment and risk to public health, for the failure of debugging in Santiago. And you said in writing that you were working with the State Government -- to see if they're still collaborating from now on, let's hope that not in the same way or not with the same results -- and that the Souto debugger would soon sign an agreement, and in relation to the expansion of the Silvouta EDAR that had four million euros. We believe that coordination between the Government of the Union, the Government of the United States and the local government is essential because the Community funds are in danger, the advisor, and the health of not only the urban agglomerations but also the Arousa River. This is a sample, it's four buttons, as it says around here, about how debugging is in Galicia. Galicia has a debugging problem, and you have the written questions already. Since you're in the clearance of the People's Party, as a counselor, it would be good if you were also a little devoted to community clearance, which is a good waste to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u160	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Vilán, you begin your questioning by making a high-level reflection on a comment that the guests make to this Chamber and where they come to say that "or you no longer" doesn't like it. Man, I know that the Socialist Party doesn't like to be thrown into the face of all the dark affairs that they have, but, of course, that's a reality. So since the People's Party Group we too have the right to remember the past and the present of its formation. And when you talk about what we have to look at this wonderful picture of many women in Mr. Sánchez's new government, look at: the problem is that what citizens want, what the Spaniards want, what we want is that they give us solutions, not photos of women and men alone and exclusively. And I hope your congratulations will be when the commitment of that Government of Sanchez to materialize, for example, in the cleansing of the city of Santiago, in the cleansing and cleaning of the funds of the Burgo River, and not because it is and there are many women in the Government. That's what I hope for from this new government. And by the way, as I know, of the ten advisers we are, five are women and five men. Of ten councillors, five we are women — I know — five women and five men. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] But we're going to focus on something that you give me the opportunity and that I'm going to try to answer as many times as you do this interrogation on sanitation. Di: What is the commitment of the Government of Galicia to advance the cleansing and sanitation of our community? It's good to remember that this commitment, of course, is not from now on, it's from far away, it's from 2009. Because, indeed, the Government of Galicia wants to contribute and support the municipalities, contribute and support the municipalities — straight — in the exercise of their powers; powers granted by the State Water Act and the Galicia Water Law, where the councils have to respond in matters of supply and sanitation, not only of infrastructure but also of management. Only when the Government of the State or even an autonomous community declares an act of self-interest or State interest in sanitation and supply is the Government of the Galician Union. And the Government of the Galician Union, even more than supporting the municipalities, what it did was to allocate the investment which, with its own funds from the Autonomous Community and with funds from the European Union, we dedicated to improving the sanitation of our community. And indeed a lot has been done; more than a billion euros have been invested since 2009 in the field of supply and sanitation. And that was able to convert all the water masses in our community from 70% to 77% were in good condition. And that means that, indeed, from 77% of water masses to 100 percent is still going through our community on sanitation and supplies. When you speak and make categorical claims sitting down that the Burgo's laugh is contaminated, that Pontevedra's laugh is contaminated, that the laugh... ultimately, all Galicia is contaminated, the truth is that the indicators and all the parameters tell exactly the opposite of what you claim without any kind of smell. And it's just that today, 77% of our community's water bodies — hearsays, laughs and underground water — are in good condition, they're in good quality. And there's a way to go? Yes. And how are we going to go on that way? Well, actually, taking a roadmap forward, not randomly. A roadmap that today is called "Galician Coast Hydrological Plan", where we have a committed investment of 654 million euros from here until 2021, 654 million euros of which 130 specifically have names and names; 130 million euros are destined from here to 2021 precisely for the sanitation of what you were talking about, which are our rivers. This sanitation, the sanitation of our rivers — I have said it on repeated occasions and I have said it as many times as you bring me here to Parliament — will be a reality at the end of 2020, where the infrastructures run or run — as I say — will achieve that 100% of the quality of our waters. But — I said — this is not a commitment to the future, this is not that we have brought here to this Parliament 654 million euros by name and surnames known to everyone who wants to know, but that more than 1,100 million euros have already been invested in our community. Specifically, 165 municipalities were invested in sanitation and 136 in supply. And I say again: municipal competition, granted by a state law and given by a law of the community, which is the Water Law. Those requirements of what you were talking about, those judgments of which you were talking about — which do not say they are declarations — are actually judgments to the Kingdom of Spain, not to the Council of Galicia, to the Kingdom of Spain, where it has identified seventeen urban nuclei, of which three are in the Community of Galicia. And indeed that sentence — which I say again: declaration, which is not condemnation — of the year 2011 highlights the cities of Vigo, Santiago, Coruña and Ribeira as places where they had to act, and where they had to be acted since 2011, where they have already acted in the four councils of those that mentioned that judgment. He has already acted in Vigo, he has already acted in Santiago, he has already acted in the Coruña and he has already acted in Ribeira. But it's good to remind you, because it's very clear that you don't like Mrs Vilan to remind her of the facts. In the Vigo River, Mrs Vilán, there is an investment that today is already a reality and is in operation, in addition to 208 million euros, which is the largest investment that has been made in a hydraulic work, the largest in the history of the German Government. And that's a reality from now on. In Burgo's creek — which you say is contaminated — there is actually a project now to clean up the funds of Burgo's creek. I'm convinced Mr. Sánchez already has the budget to take him forward this same year. I am convinced that the Minister — as I suppose it will depend on the Waters Department, who will be the new Minister of Climate Change — I suppose, I suppose — is President Sánchez's decision — that he will immediately commit this investment. Because it's absolutely false that Burgo's laugh is contaminated. Burgo's creek had an investment of over 100 million euros. This councillor who talks to you made a commitment, which today is running, of more than 6 million euros, which has just completed the commitment of the Government of Galicia to the Burgo's stream of sanitation and improved water quality. [[Applause]] Another thing, Mrs Vilán, will be that expected execution of that mud cleaning project, which I am convinced that, with your support — and support from the rest of the Members — will be an ipso facto reality during this year 2018, because they have the assumption — as you say — taken over by Mr Sánchez, the assumption that President Rajoy has left. In the Pontevedra River, indeed, Mrs Vilán, we also have a sanitation plan, which we like so much for the Government of the People's Party, which is roadmaps to follow forward. And indeed, we had a recent meeting with the Ría Defense Platform, and even with the Maricadores, to tell you what we are doing in that creek, beyond — as you well remember — that we must remember that, in fact, the management of the Praceres Debugger takes us, the only debugger of the seven capitals that lead to the Unity of Galicia, the only debugger of the seven capitals, in Pontevedra, that exploitation costs 3 million euros to all the Greeks, in Pontevedra. It's not like this in Vigo, for not talking about the Coruña and not talking about Ourense, of course. And, yes, you're saying we have responsibility; yes, but when you want the Council of Pontevedra, let's give it back. If you want to execute your responsibility, which is your competence, whenever you want, you have the offer to take the management of that Praceres debugger. Meanwhile, what this council did was to ask the State to give permission to grant an absolutely necessary regularization to, in fact, have the ownership of this debugger from Praceres and now undertake an investment that today is being drafted: the preliminary draft of this debugger in Pontevedra. And since I don't have time, I'll leave Santiago's to the end. Yes, Your Honor, Mayor Martiño has a new president, who voted for him, by the way, which is Mr Sánchez. Mayor Martiño, who voted for him this president and is therefore his president, now has a chance: to convince the state — because he had already convinced us — to make all the investment of that Souto debugger. [[Murmurs.]] See if the new Socialist Government is able to tell this mayor that this foreign idea that he had to change his placement with a project — which today is not even a project — is going to improve Sar's conditions and improve Santiago's debugging. Now you have me believe that a direct line — as far as I can see — with the new Government and, therefore, you have the opportunity, through your concelers in the Town Hall of Santiago, to try to change your mind to this mayor of the Tide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u162	...and try to carry forward a project in which, by the way, there is a commitment on the part of the Galician Union that I once again ratify. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u163	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u164	Thank you, President. Counselor, I don't make categorical statements. I tell what people who work in the world at sea are talking about. By the way, you do make categorical statements as terrible as the one you did when you came out here and said, "I know, we're five advisors and five advisors." Well, you know, it's four advisors, seven advisors and a president of the board. Therefore, advisor, lessons, or the first, and much less making categorical claims that are lies. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, it's also very risky and for us the truth is that it's surprising, because you in the photos of the board now go out when you don't look at your mates or you don't have to talk to them, and to your colleagues too, counselor. You come by there and you don't care what happens there when you're going to talk about debugging somewhere, because you don't even know about your own Government how many advisors there are and how many advisors there, and still upstairs you go up here and make a categorical statement saying, "I know, we're five advisors and five advisors." Well, you know quite badly. She makes categorical claims — she lied — it's you; of course, I don't. I just come here to move the problems that tell us people who work and who look around when they work in the world of the sea, in the rivers of Galicia. What you do is you go to take pictures of them — like horses when they enter the bull market with covered eyes, so you see -- and besides you do it is tell commitments and make what it does, tell what it does: it's going to make plans, it's going to make projects... that's what you usually count. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, you can't throw balloons out. We know that now you will be opposed to this Parliament, to the opposition of the Government of Spain. Supply and sanitation are municipal competence, no doubt, but debugging is autonomous competition. And the questions go about debugging. Of course you can't sanction Europe, punish us. This of the rulings is like that redundancies of Mrs. Cospedal. Sanctions of the European Union, which is what is being asked to the Commission. Precisely, the Commission is asking for explanations from the Government of Spain. Of course, you can't ask Galicia because we're not a state, the state is Spanish and you have to ask Spain for explanations because it's a state, Galicia can't ask them. But the state is asking for explanations to this country, counsellor, and if there are seventeen problems of clearance in Spain and three are in Galicia, it's not to be overly satisfied, especially because you've been ruling for more than thirty years in our autonomous community. So, satisfaction, none. And some responsibility will have to... Mr. Prado may want to come up here and tell us something, perhaps yes, of debugging, perhaps yes, or even something else. [[Murmurs.]] It's possible, for me, there's no problem. [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, there are sanctions imposed by a 2016 judgement, and that's undeniable, you can't deny it. You said there's a clearance commitment in the Burgo's creek. A project that is not approved, advisor, the Burgo River Debug project is not approved. A sanitation plan for the stream of Pontevedra that does not exist, Counselor; it has not yet been shown to anyone, because it is also not approved. In Vigo he told us about the Lagares debugger; indeed, but the Lagares debugger has a name, he has the name of a woman, who was minister Elena Salgado; that is the source of the Lagares debugger. And you said, "I will leave Santiago to the end." Well, indeed, as final as the only contribution the People's Party makes to Santiago's clearance is an ex-counseler throwing garbage into the Sar River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Closure of the inquiry, Madam Environment and Territory Planning Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u166	Thank you very much, President. In order to remain consistent and at least remain in the record, indeed, I have been wrong, I have three legislations, it is true that we have been at least once five or five; and, in some ways, because I really hope that this mistake does not reflect the importance of this explanation, which is to talk about the subject of which you invite me to talk about, which is sanitation. Look, Mrs. Vilán, I would like to urge you again that you are neither this government nor me as advisor to what I have told you that everything has been done in the field of sanitation and supply in our community. If I insist that the Water Act of the State and the Water Law of Galicia say that both sanitation and supply is a municipal jurisdiction that only in those cases where an autonomous community or by the State declares itself of general interest will be affected and led, practically funded, by the person who has declared it, be the State or be the autonomous community. And I am now compelled to speak specifically of Santiago. And we have to talk about Santiago because, in fact, the fact that this mayor of Souto's Debugger now is in danger not only of an environmental crime, not only of improving the quality of Sar, but also of the possibility of financing this investment of about EUR 74 million with European funds, but also of the fact that, if this action is not taken shortly, the declaration of environmental impact will be completely out of date. And since you now have a direct line with the current Government in Madrid, since you now have the confirmation that this work is indeed a work of general interest, I employ it the first of all that through its representatives, the concellors in the Town Hall of Santiago of the Socialist Party, who have placed Mr. Martiño there as mayor and are obviously supporting him, try to change it and that at least you are able to convince him that the debugger that has been elected, that the debugger that has been declared of general interest, that the debugger that already has a declaration of environmental impact, that the debugger that can be a reality of improving the environmental conditions of this municipality, must be the one that is in the Souto, where the Galician Union has committed itself with funding, because, indeed, the former Government has committed the financing of 60% of the investment of the Souto debugger, and we have already had an agreement over a year ago with the Town Hall of Santiago to finance the rest between the Unity of Galicia and the Conce. That commitment on the part of this council and this government is absolutely on its feet. We're looking to see if, beyond the photographs of the ministers, it's going to be a reality the state's investment in Santiago. And if, in the end, the Socialist Government understands that this study, which does not pre-project or project, which now wants to take forward the Town Hall of Santiago may be possible, I ask Mrs Vilan whether the Socialist Government, when it loses the money of the European Union, will also compromise the investment in the Santiago Debugger. Because it is important to emphasize that this debugger is of general interest — I mean, of general interest — not of self-interest and therefore Mr. Sánchez is what has to take her forward and demand that she take her forward. By our band, as I told you, we will continue to act to achieve that 100% of the water masses of our community in good state. And this isn't about literature, it's not about making sanitation plans. This is a matter of identifying, with name and surname, investments that we are currently working on to take them forward, among them, for example, since you are talking about the river Pontevedra, that of Poio. I also invite you to ask your concelers in the Poio Town Hall to tell the mayor to see where you want to put the debugger, because we have been waiting for the Poio Town Hall to have a proper placement, after evaluating more than nine projects, or twelve projects — it still puts me better — more than twelve locations for possible locations of that debugger, and today the Council has no value to say and mark where we can put that debugger, of course, with all the technical features. In the meantime, we will follow that roadmap of more than 650 million euros to the Community of Galicia, which will conquer that integral sanitation of our rivers and which will conquer the water masses to 100%. And that sanitation, Mrs. Vilán, is in the Official Journal of Galicia. There are the 14 million euros that are already auctioned in Rianxo; there are the 4 million euros that are already bided in Pontedeume; there are the 7 million euros that will be bided in the next few days in the Ferrol River, in the cove of Malata; they are actually published in the Official Journal of Galicia. It seems to you that when you publish it's not a reality, just like when you do something you don't like, and you make those categorical assertions, which all you do is harm the image of our Autonomous Community. We invite Members who want to visit our community again and who will visit our rivers to see the quality of our waters, after having made the investments — as I promised — of 6 million euros in the Burgo River. And we also invite not only the Euro MPs, but the Socialist Group, the PSdEG, who now has its leader in the central government, to immediately engage in the mud of the Burgo River. Because, yes, ma'am, that project is going to be a reality and the funding is going to be; that they run it already; how fast were they?, because now you have the chance of yourself to embark on that mud-cleaning project of the Burgo River this year. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u167	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the precarious situation of the labour market in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u168	Mrs Prado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u169	Good morning, Counselor. Today the BNG wants to talk to you about Galicia's work situation. Because the combined action of a government full of corruption, acting with total impunity and the complicity of the Government of the Union, which you represent here today, is part of the same strategy, has consumed the generalized theft of labour and social rights, and has absorbed the Galician working class into a situation of genuine national emergency. Policies that have plundered and stolen the working class, plunged into a situation of precariousness and impoverishment that is becoming—if it is not already—structural, and that we live in a situation where present generations and future generations will live, are living in conditions worse than previous ones. We've just learned about the data from registered unemployment, which, although it's gone down, is a simple indicator, of course it's not much less reflective of the improvement of the labour market, which has really alarming results. I'm going to give you data from that labour market, sources from the Galego Institute of Statistics and the EPA, Counsellor; I'm telling you because then you'll give your data whatever you want; I say: sources from the Galego Institute of Statistics and the EPA. For that data says that unemployment in Galicia, today, compared to 2009, is 25,000 more unemployed people today than in 2009. And the most alarming fact is that there are currently 120,000 less busy people in Galicia -- that is, more than 10% of the active population in Galicia has fallen, which is what we're most concerned about. In nine years of government of Nuñez Fexóo, of the People's Party, since he returned to the Government of the Union, in Galicia he only lowered the rate of active population. And the drama is that that active population, where it came down most, was among young people, so we see that 41.7% of people aged between 16 and 34 years old -- that is, the lung of what our society had to be -- 162,200 young people and girls who have been less busy since the year 2009 -- a real drama, Mr. Count, for any country that wants to have a future and for a government that, of course, is ahead and wants to lead that country and has some hope to get through that country forward. More data. As for wages, nothing to draw from, Mr. Count. Galicia is the fourth cola community with lower wages. The state measure is EUR 23.156; in Galicia, 21.082. The Germans and the Germans charge less than the state average; rooms in the queue. Let's go to the temporality. Precautionaryity has only increased, temporary recruitment arrangements are the most increasing, temporary recruitment has increased three times the indefinite (57% versus 20% of the undefined), and temporary contracts are 92.4% of the total. The coverage rate for unemployed people — we are talking about this yesterday, in this Parliament — is dramatic; more than half of those who have no employment do not have any kind of coverage either. The emigration of young people in Galicia is still a real tragedy. They have in their possession, Counselor, 100,000 young men and women between 16 and 34 years of age who have left Galicia since 2009. That generation that had to be the one leading our country at the economic level, at the demographic level, at the level of life projects, at the level of developing these vital projects here, and it turns out that those 100,000 young men and girls are developing their projects, their knowledge, their knowledge outside of Galicia. We can talk about women, about the situation of women in the labour market. In Galicia, of course, the salary divider throws data that the activity of the Greek women is 8.7 points below that of the men, when in the state it is 4.3%. We charge 23% less than men, Counselor. What is the greatest indecency of all this data I'm giving you, Counselor? It is that since 2009, only seven programmes of the budgets of the Union, since 2009, for employment policies, have left unimplemented budget shares in the budgets of the Union for employment policies, after they are budgeted, EUR 1 billion. The Government of the People's Party, with this drama in the employment situation in our country, it turns out that the luxury of not having executed, since 2009, 1 billion euros. I hope you have some explanation to give me of how, being the data I have just described of unemployment, precariousness, emigration — I have just given them — if you allow the luxury of not having executed those EUR 1 billion, after they are budgeted. And we are no longer talking about the resources that have not been claimed by the State, the resources that have not been claimed by the European Union and all other matters. I'm talking about the resources you put in the budgets of the Board, that you put there, white on black, that you came here to vote, that you didn't accept amendments from the opposition groups, that you were the ones who said you were going to do. And, after having them in the budgets, they did not run EUR 1 billion to promote employment, employability, promotion of employment, vocational training of the unemployed, job qualifications, improvement of the organization and administration of labour relations, promotion of the social economy, departures to all these issues, EUR 1 billion that the People's Party in the Government of the United Nations has ceased to implement. A real scandal. And I'm going to talk to you about other matters. I was telling you that these data I just gave you are data from the Galego Institute of Statistics and the EPA, not data for anything cooked or prepared on any other matter. And now I'm going to tell you about a salary income study developed by the IGC, the 2016 salary income, based on the study published by the Tax Agency, which takes the basis of the annual statement that they are obliged to submit to entities that pay wages, pensions or unemployment benefits. What about that report? For the advance of work precariousness, the increase in inequalities between wage earners and a significant loss of purchasing power, that precariousness only increases, that if in 2009 it was 26% of the population that did not reach the minimum wage, in 2016 it was already 30%, which accentuated polarization among wage earners in Galicia that earns the most and the fewer. Galicia is in the head, only surpassed by Madrid, where the people who earn the most, who earn more than 70,000 euros a year; after Madrid, Galicia is where they grow the most; that is, we have the lowest wages in the queue, in the fourth place, but we also have the honour to see where they grow. I mean, in polarization between the ones who win the most and the ones who least have that great honor as well. The only collective that grows is that of people who receive less than half the minimum interprofessional wage; we are talking about those people who do not exceed EUR 1,800 gross per year; that is, a real misery, Counsellor. Where the number of workers has increased most is in the line of low-income activities, which is why registered unemployment means virtually nothing, and you know it. I mean, they're people who sometimes only work one day, two days, a few days, but in addition to some wages, income you know they're pauperimos, they don't give to develop absolutely any life plan, in most cases they don't even feed. With which I ask you, Counsellor, what is the evaluation of the Board, if you plan to perform some action to reverse this situation and if you are going to do something from the Government to rescue these thousands of Greeks and Greeks, because you are in danger and labor poverty, and what is the justification for, being this data, not at least, you have not executed — because I'm only talking to you about how many games, only the games of your Council, that we could then talk about the transversality of other games...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u171	...which would also have to go to employment— 1 billion euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, unfortunately, you begin your intervention with a series of improper valuations, a series of unfounded valuations. I suggest that, when you want to talk about inappropriate conduct, first look at your group and then talk, if you see it appropriate, about the others. But here we came to a political debate, a debate on employment policies, and I deeply regret that you, once again, are going up here on the ground — I insist — to make improper and unfounded assessments, and please look before you do that for your group. In any case, you, once again — your group, repeatedly — want to re-use a mixture of official statistics and partial reports to try to confuse and attempt to distort reality. Once again, you resort to that kind of strategy that really does not contribute anything to a debate about employment policies and what interests citizens and they simply try to get through to a report — I insist — on the part of the IGC, which, of course, reports as many reports are made in other instances. In any case, the data don't accompany it, that's reality, and that's what these official statistics reflect, because actually in Galicia nearly 23,000 people left the unemployment list in the last year, with a 11.5% decrease, and, as you know, we have less unemployment than nine years ago. That's the reality of the labour market in Galicia. Just like we have 26,786 more memberships, with five consecutive years of going up. You should check your data. Indefinite recruitment grew by 22,2 % in the last year, increasing by more than 13 points over the rise of temporary recruitment. Please check your data. Full-time recruitment has also increased by 14,6 %, far above part-time recruitment. And he knows -- and he doesn't talk about it -- that the data from the EPA in the first quarter of 2018 reflect that 73% of the Greeks, three out of four employees, have an indefinite contract. And he also knows that nine out of every ten busy have a full-time contract in Galicia. You refer to a report from the IGC — once again the Galician Nationalist Block — by the way, from 2016; it would be good for them to update that data as well. And you know it's a part report and a report that just doesn't collect a complete analysis of reality. You know that these salary data reflected in that report do not take into account the effective working time and you know perfectly well that these are people who only worked a fraction of the year and whose salary only includes, Mrs. Prado, wages for the time worked, and you know that these people could have received unemployment benefits or pensions elsewhere. So, Mrs. Prado, don't you think there's a need to talk to some property and some responsibility? Unfortunately, we are used to having the Galego Nationalist Block stand aside from reality, and the only thing that seems to interest them at the moment is, as their spokesperson said, the rupture of the 1978 Constitution. That seems to be the only interest the Galician Nationalist Block has. And while you're in that debate, Your Honor, you will unfortunately be at the forefront of the real concerns and needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because if not, Mrs. Prado, how do you understand and explain that your mayor of Pontevedra opposes Elnosa's continuity? How do you understand or explain that you despise an investment of EUR 40 million and therefore also keep the employment of more than half a hundred workers? How do you explain this to the Greeks, to 5,000 people who live and depend on Ence? How do you explain this unjustified struggle by the Galician Nationalist Block against job creation? How is the abstention of the Nationalist Block Galego in the law that allowed the expansion of PSA in Vigo? How do you explain that? How do you explain, Mrs. Prado, your indiscriminate opposition against the mining law? How do you explain that to 5,000 people whose work depends on mining? Why does the Galician Nationalist Block reject the Act of Entrepreneurship and therefore does not allow the Government to develop a policy of investment capture and administrative simplification in such important productive sectors as the forest sector or the mining sector? How do you understand, Mrs Prado, that only one council of the Galician Nationalist Block is in favour of reducing taxes on entrepreneurs who want to invest in their municipalities? One, Mrs. Prado. I understand that the Galician Nationalist Bloc, simply, has no effective commitment to employment; you simply, when you talk about employment, talk about rhetoric and all they want is to get employers to work, you block job creation and you block investments on our land. You ask me what kind of performances the Government is developing to meet the needs of the Greeks. The difference between you, logically, for we, first of all, have complied with the law, which you urge us not to do — amazingly. But secondly, we actually work so that the Greeks can have these possibilities and, therefore, they can have a better future. And so, Mrs. Prado, we don't talk about partial reports. When it comes to employment, we talk about talent, we talk about innovation and we talk about Industry 4.0, debates in which you are not even regrettably expected. [[Applause]] In the field of innovation, Mrs Prado, Galicia wants to distinguish itself precisely by the investigative talent and by the link with the business fabric. We are developing the Galicia Innova Plan, with 1,775 million euros, to continue the enhancement of scientific and technological knowledge. We are strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises to facilitate their digital transformation and therefore support projects that want to develop greater competitiveness through innovation and export. We are focusing on human capital, Mrs Prado, and therefore on active employment policies, facilitating greater training and guidance in the labour market. And we are doing this, precisely, with more and better qualified staff, through the different training courses of the training units of enterprise, the Youth Employment program, the development of dual jobs or employment workers, and also promoting the recruitment of unemployed, especially those who need it most. And we are, Mrs Prado, also making a clear bet to promote the development of self-employed activities and, therefore, to make available to these entrepreneurs all the facilities so they can consolidate their activity. You, unfortunately, all you want is to raise your taxes. We, the autonomous ones, want to bring down the taxes precisely. These are policies, Mrs Prado, which are implemented from the point of view of active employment policies. In 2017 we committed 80% of the budget, a reality that you don't want to recognize, but which, logically, we will continue to develop, because there is logically, in the talent bet, for Industry 4.0, for innovation, for the future and the opportunities that can be opened to the Greeks and the Greeks. We are not in favour of imposing more taxes, we are not in favour of imposing restrictions on the development of economic and industrial activities in Galicia, which is the policy defending the Galician Nationalist Block, and therefore this government will continue to act with responsibility, we will continue to support the path of economic recovery. And, of course, Mrs. Prado, we hope that the new Government of Spain will be able to respect the commitments of the state's general budgets with Galicia. And we hope that the new Government will not try to penalize the autonomous communities that we have done our duties. We therefore hope that it will be a just government, that it will be a just government, and we simply hope to count on the support of the Nationalist Block of Wales to prevent this government from being penalized by the new Government of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u174	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u175	The impropriety, Mr. Count, is not to say what happened, the impropriety is to have done it. And page 55 of Gürtell's sentence says: "between the Correa group and the People's Party, in parallel, a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption was created through mechanisms of manipulation of public procurement (central, autonomous and local), through a close and continuous relationship with the influences of the party's militants." [[Applause]] It is not for me to say the judgment, on page 155, that, if you will, Mr President, I will leave it to you to supplement the report of the lawyers. [[Applause]] I regret, Mr. Count, that you, far from preparing your appearances here, come with the same appearance that you have already repeated, I think three or four times with the same intervention. And I referred to a IGC report today and referred to the IGE and EPA data. Data from the IGE and the EPA that give rise to a dramatic situation in Galicia, which says that there are 120,000 people less busy today than in 2009, say that there are 161,000 young people and girls less busy today than in 2009, say that in Galicia we charge 2,074 euros less than in the average state, say that women in Galicia we charge 23% less than men, we charge 5,474 euros less than men; that means we charge 77% less than men. All the data I told him. And they say the data, in analysing the level of budget execution, Mr. Conde, that the People's Party, after having planned splits in the budgets of the Union, has stopped executing, in sections intended for employment, with which to improve the promotion of employability, employment promotion, job promotion, vocational training of the unemployed, job qualification, the improvement of the organization of labour relations, the promotion of the social economy, only in those sections, EUR 1 billion, EUR 1 billion that you did not run and of what you should be ashamed of. And you, in front of that, tell me to come here with a biased report. [[Applause]] I told him about all these things, and you couldn't answer to one, to one, or to one. And if I had time, I'd tell you where you're destroying jobs: in the sea, in the countryside, in all sectors. And you come here to talk about Industry 4.0. What is the wager for R+D+i, where they are in line, not only for the state, but for Europe? There's no time. I regret that, in the face of a precarious job situation, low wages, rotation, difficulty, access, payroll, the Faixóo Government, and you stop running EUR 1 billion. It's indolence, neglect. It's disgusting what we need to feel for a government that, having budgets and having this job situation — I told you before — doesn't even worry about demanding what is ours, but that, having these budgets there, doesn't even execute them and allows the massive emigration of our young and young people, allows half of the unemployed people to cover absolutely nothing, without moving even one finger, having the resources to do so. Of course, organized crime to steal and organized crime to ruin the country and leave the people who have the least, the people who have the least; that's right, that's right. [[Applause]] The absolute indolence installed in the Government, simply to favor those who have the most, to favor, yes, to favor organized theft and at the same time steal the working class and leave it thrown away. That's the government we've installed here. They've approved some work reforms that meant precariousness, leaving a lot of people thrown away, making structurally a dramatic job situation, and of course it's going to be that working class, organized, which reverses that situation. You're just trying to make that economic recovery structural, an economic recovery for the rich, where there's a rise in GDP but accumulated only in a few hands. That's all they care about, that Industry 4.0, that super-structural export data, and also to accumulate wealth in a few hands. And here I gave you the data: that increase in GDP is piled up in a few hands, in Galicia they increase the ones that have the most and the ones that they have the least, and that's for whom you are working, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Count, iron-handed with the working class, impunity and corruption to favor the least. That's what you've been working on and here today, except now that you're able to give some justification, some explanation, some different roadmap, it seems like everything indicates that they're going to follow the same roadmap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Close, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u177	Mrs Prado, I understand perfectly well that when they have no arguments, they have no industrial policy, they have no policy of job creation — that is, logically, it is very difficult to debate. Your only policy is to close companies, prevent industrial projects from being developed in Galicia and so logically it's very difficult for you not to talk about innovation, you don't want to talk about Industry 4.0, you don't want to talk about digital transformation and you don't want to talk about the reality of our productive fabric. In the meantime, you actually bring some reports here, and now you seem to be ashamed of the report that you have reflected. I just pick up your plea, pick up your intervention, and bring here unfortunately to this House I think a partial and incomplete report. I'm sorry all the references that you logically want to move here to a debate, but I'm going to tell you: I feel very proud of the Italian productive fabric. You don't seem to, but I'm very proud of the aeronautics of Rozas; you don't want to talk about it. I'm very proud that Galicia is developing the self-sustaining car project. I'm very proud that Galicia is actually leading the drop in unemployment in Spain. I'm very proud that, with the fact that we now know of the industrial production index, Galicia is leading the growth of the industrial production index, both on an annual and this year's basis. I'm very proud that Galicia is the second autonomous community with a larger commercial surplus. That's the reality of the productive tissue. So you don't want to talk about talent or human capital or innovation or Industry 4.0. He doesn't really want to talk about the needs of our productive tissue. I'll tell you. You say I bring the written intervention. I'm not a visionary. I brought you the data published this week by the National Institute of Statistics. Galicia has recovered, Your Honor, for official data, 96,714 memberships since the beginning of the recovery. Most of these affiliations are female affiliations and, in fact, 48 percent of the memberships in the community today are women. The youth unemployment rate—signorship, check your data—has dropped 13 points. If we're talking about EPA, 9 out of 10 assets have university studies and are busy; 54,000 more people, Your Honor, than in the first quarter of 2014. If you want, we're talking about wages and we're talking about official statistics and not that report, on the part of the IGC. With regard to wages, even though 10 % grew between 2008 and 2016, we have, Your Honor, the sixth smallest gap between women and men, and logically they are data that are proving that the time has come to continue working and dialogue so that these wages continue to grow according to the capacities of each company and each sector. And there, logically, we have a task that we're developing with economic and social agents. But if you tell me about the performances, I can tell you about the performances of the Government of Spain and the performances of the Council of Galicia, in a complementary way. He knows that President Rajoy's government has agreed a 20 % increase to the minimum wage by 2020. He knows he was working on a plan to fight the gender pay gap. He knows he's been implementing measures to develop the Law on urgent reforms of self-employment. You know that you included, Mrs Prado, the largest share for youth employment in the 2018 budgets, through the Youth Guarantee Bonus and the indefinite conversion bonus. And he also knows that he has developed an extraordinary unemployment allowance while negotiating a new model of protection. He also knows that in the Galician Union we have reached 13% more funds from the state, precisely by fulfilling the objectives of the rest of the autonomous communities, and Galicia has five points more than the average of the autonomous communities, precisely Mrs Prado, for having better results in the execution and development of active employment policies. He knows that we are strengthening the inspection plan, he knows that we have a specific programme dedicated to women of about EUR 71 million, and he knows that we are setting an example for all of Spain with this plan of stability in the employment of public services in Galicia to precisely reduce the number of temporary employees by 90%. And he knows that the recovery of salaries for more than two years will be effective with a 1.5% increase in remuneration when state budgets come into force and an additional 0.25% with effect from 1 July. Finally, Mrs. Prado, we continue to work on economic recovery. You're still in the past. Unfortunately, they're not thinking about the future and I just invite you to incorporate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u179	... specifically the policies that the Galician Union is developing in industrial matters, in employment matters, and therefore really does not focus on anti-institutional debate, it is in a debate precisely to develop employment and develop industry in our country. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. We moved on to the next interpellation. Interpellation by Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas, of the G.P. of En Marea on the situation of the Greek financial system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u181	To formulate the plea, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u182	I will try not to get rid of the limits of the Constitution in this debate. It is not going to be an anti-institutional debate. Good morning, Counselor. In a few decades, in this country the financial system itself has been liquidated. The last few weeks ago, the results of this deliberate liquidation were: for example, the finding of the disappearance of the Pastor brand and the uncertainty caused in Abanca because of having as owner a Venezuelan banker who suffered an expropriation there in Venezuela. They are simply the last collections of this liquidation of the Greek financial system and, more specifically, and much more importantly, the liquidation of the Greek savings boxes, which brought together 40% of the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks, nothing less and nothing less, which had a social nature, a nature that, well-used, served to foster our productive fabric and to foster the productive economy. This liquidation of the Greek financial system — where there is nothing left, practically only the exception of Caixa Rural Glaga — is not a coincidence. Here was a big deal at the state level, an agreement urged by the large bankers, who wanted to do with the business of almost 50% in the Spanish state, and also a PP and PSOE pact to plot the master lines of the liquidation of savings banks — it's obvious that there was no chance — and also with the invaluable collaboration of the Bank of Spain. That, to great extent, led to the disappearance of the boxes, also with the aim of recentralizing financial policies and concentrating financial capital, particularly in Madrid. To recentralize because they also ended up with the capacity of autonomy such as Galicia, which had in Article 30 competences for control and policy in savings banks, which did not have the powers to control banks' policies. That way, from a pen, they achieved all those goals. And here in Galicia the successive governments attended this plan with passivity or accomplices. At no time was there a political decision to defend our powers, to defend that social character of the boxes and to wager for a policy of returning to investment in the productive fabric and, on the other hand, yes, with governments and others too, for years here, it was allowed to act as if the owners of the boxes were their private banks and were tolerated to devote themselves to real estate speculation, to brickmaking, which also caused the unsustainable situation to which the boxes reached — some more than others, one more than another, but the two—. And the Galician Union had powers over the years in that speculative career to influence and control that policy. No one has done anything, this investment policy has been tolerated. And when the moment of fusion came, Mr. Counsellor, too, unfortunately, in this parliamentary arc no one opposed that merger, which was already warned that it was the way of failure. At that point, the way was to return to the social character of the boxes, to the fact that the boxes had made investment policy in the productive economy. You actively collaborated with the plan of the Banco de España and the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the Spanish state, actively collaborated. And it's more, in this merger of boxes, that promise of a Welsh box, which ended up being a Venezuelan bank, was based on lies in this country. Once again, after attending the case investigation commission and the financial system in the Congress of Deputies, it came back to light what we had been reporting for years: the fusion of the yellow boxes was based on a lie, a lie that it was endorsed by an audit conducted by KPMG and that this audit evaluated the merger of the boxes. It is clear — and even Mr Feijóo has acknowledged it — that it was neither auditing nor evaluating the merger of the boxes, it was a big lie. Also, in addition to the great lie and scam of the boxes, we still follow the policy of concealment. We continue to wait for transcendent information to be given to determine the political responsibilities in that failed merge process. We continue to request this letter of order from KPMG, a letter of commission where the German Government theoretically fixed the criteria to study — since it was not an audit, an accelerated diagnosis —. The auditor himself said in his report that this study was limited to the prefixed issues, that they were a limited diagnosis, and also to the issues prefixed by the Galician Union. In that letter of command, they should note which issues indicated to the Galician Council that should be studied. The given documentation is not supported. We've been asking for it by various means, and we've been hiding it for years. We want to know that letter of order, Counselor. They have the legal duty, in addition, to bring it up and that we know it in Parliament and that it knows Greek citizenship. And there are no reports of the Fatenda technicians who speak of Mrs Fernández Currás who joined the case file, in the pseudo-written comparency that Mrs Fernández Currás made, in a further lack of respect for this Parliament. We want to know, we know you lied, we know the result: 9,000 million euros injected and a sale at a balance price to a Venezuelan bank. That viable Welsh box promise remained in a Venezuelan bank that is doing business at the cost of sanitation that was made with public money. Moreover, in that loss of powers of the Galician Union, where Mr. Feijóo is a champion, they have not achieved any more competition, but more importantly, he has lost power over our autonomy, he has lost self-government with Mr. Feijóo's Government. He lost so much self-government that, when it was decided to privatize Novagalicia Banco, which, I say, had brought together 40% of the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks, the Greek Government could not say or say mu; neither could he want to, but he could not say so much in that decision. A decision that was made on the basis of an auditor's report, McKinsey, specialist in privatization and rotational doors. And the German Government couldn't say anything in the decision that privatized the saving of 40% of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's the result of not fighting for our self-government. When we talk about these things, we're not talking about flags or symbols, we're talking about material issues. The self-government serves, among other things, to tell you, not to privatize the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks. And you were there as a florist, completely, in front of this. And that's the result of not planting them towards policies designed by their party in Madrid. Many times you make the excuse that the Socialist Party has made changes in conditions, and that's true. The Spanish Bank has played with cards marked. He first asked for conditions for mergers that involved high costs and forced to generate assets, to immediately demand capital core ratios much higher than Basel III requires, and different between cash and bank ratios. That's right. But it must also be said that the People's Party has valued those changes all over and over again. And, therefore, you're also complicit in this liquidation of savings banks. Finally, Counsellor, we want the information we lack. Tell us and tell us if we'll be given these two questions that we're asking them without much fortune. Are we going to get that letter from KPMG? Are we also going to give the reports of the Technicians of Fairy, who are not among the documentation provided to the Box Commission? What is your opinion of the actions of the Greek governments during the liquidation of the Greek financial system? If you were betting on this liquidation, if you were powerless to brake it, you were collaborating. What opinion do you deserve from what you could have done, with exclusive competences in box policy, and the role you've played, leaving these owners "almost" of the Greek savings boxes to walk on a speculative adventure for many years. And their responsibility in this settlement, which cost us billions of euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, we are obviously in parliamentary office and we can talk about multiple issues, all of them very interesting, which have been introduced by you. But once again where my partner, the Economic Counsellor, started, maybe we're too predictable and we can prepare the topics we're asked about. Allow me to sneeze a little -- I don't know if the question, being signed individually by a partner in your group, had a different approach to what you're proposing -- I think I'm going to answer it a lot, but maybe not as often as you expect. So what I'd like to talk about is the Greek financial system, which was the question you were asking in writing in this interpellation. And the first thing I would like to point out is that we can debate this situation precisely because, unlike you on multiple occasions -- we just saw it a moment ago -- there actually exists a Greek financial system, with a reference entity like that of the Bank. And, said this, what I regret is the little caution in drafting the signer's interpellation, for trying to create uncertainty about the main financial entity, which has a market share in the community around 40%, which has also been repeated by you and which coincides with what previously had the boxes, where usually there are companies and citizens. So I suppose to them a certain level of maturity to know — given one market as we are — whether one entity or another is chosen. Curiously, we're on the same level as you were referring to. It does not seem to be the most responsible to try to generate uncertainty and concern between customers and investors of this financial entity, something that is more difficult to understand as the signer — excuse me for addressing you, who is currently an economist — because Abanca and Banesco — who were intervened by the Venezuelan Government of Mr. Nicolás Maduro — are completely independent entities. The bank — however much they care about — is a bank based in Galicia, Spain and the European Union, regulated by the Spanish and European authorities, supported by the Banco de España and the European Central Bank. And at the same time, it's a highly capitalised, solvent bank with a capital ratio of 15.6 % and a prospectus of more than 2,000 million euros on the requirements required by the European Central Bank. So it not only scrupulously complies with the guarantee rules of its deposits, but it presents a high compliance with the liquidity requirements, with levels above, even the reference that you also made to Basel III for this year 2018. I mean, solvent and liquidity. We are in front of a relatively well positioned bank with regard to the average. Its operation is completely disconnected from Banesco, so Abanca's customers have to be calm. And in addition to the reality, I reject the catastrophe that tries to translucent in its written formulation, which led me to prepare this subject. Because any Abanca client who operated with this entity in the last few weeks, since it was formulated early May until now, I don't think he's seen any difference with Banesco's previous intervention. Moreover, in the face of the mistrust that they intend to transfer, once intervened Banesco, the Moody’s Qualifications Agency has raised the Abanca rating. Therefore, since this responsibility for economic policy, and in this financial case, I would like to send a message of tranquility to both customers and investors, and ask you to act with more prudence and responsibility. Galicia, fortunately, has stability, both political and institutional and economic. We know that your group has just collaborated to bring a certain degree of instability to Spain. They don't want to infect us too. Once this point was clarified, we remember what happened so that the President of Abanca, Mr. Escotet, had to travel urgently to Venezuela. Even though Banesco's directors, initially summoned to a meeting, were imprisoned by Mr. Maduro's Government and the bank entity involved. This happened on May 3rd. Interestingly, 5 is when you file this inquiry. That's why Mr. Escotet temporarily delegated to an executive of his highest confidence, and a member of the board of directors, his duties as non-executive president. And the same thing we have found is that the executive officer of the entity is still the same. At this point, I would like to tell you that the reference that is made in En Marea's initiative — and I quote from the outset — "will suddenly disappear Mr. Escotet," allow me to tell you that, from the personal point of view, we are filled with fear, for it comes from someone who belongs to a group. You know Mr. Maduro's regime so well, with so little democratic guarantees. So, Your Honor — the second time I make it — I ask your group not to generate uncertainties about Abanca because we are talking about an entity that has 3,100 direct jobs. And that, according to a study by the University of Santiago, it contributes to generating, in addition, 12,000 additional jobs as a result of its headquarters in Galicia. And at the same time, we're talking -- as you've already said -- about an entity that manages 4 of every 10 euros of the savings of all the Greeks and Greeks. He also made another reference, in the written part of his interpellation, as to bank concentration. I think we've been talking about this subject long enough — in another format — 15 or 30 days ago, on this issue. All parliamentary groups then agreed that the Galicia Competition Commission had conducted a study on this issue. It's important to analyze the background as well. You have also made some reference in your intervention today. Spain in 2008 was the European country with the largest number of bank offices, with 46,000; and, for example, Germany had 39,500, or France, 39,000. Since then, the financial crisis had led to a major restructuring in the banking sector throughout the European Union, including Spain. And that implied a concentration in the number of entities with the objective of ensuring solvency and the future. This restructuring process produced a progressive and general adjustment in the number of offices, and this adjustment in Galicia — as is known, official data — was 2 points below that of the state set. Once I have explained this, let me insist on the three main conclusions of the report drawn up by the Galician Competition Commission. And it is that, firstly — and despite the fact that the German banking market has higher levels of concentration — it has a number of features that help create a more favourable framework for competition despite this level of concentration. Secondly, the acquisition of the People's Bank by Banco Santander raised the levels of concentration in the Greek market but reduced the relative market power of the first Greek financial entity by market share, and the group now owned by the People's Bank, has gone from 12.83 to 26.11; while the Bank, obviously, is in the same position, 34.17%, therefore there is a relative loss. There is no other — and this is the third outstanding point in the report — record of coordination of conduct on the German market and, on the other hand, an increase in competition between entities. As it is well known, even by technological developments, more and more entities having a certain name — or not such a name — act, well in the whole state well in the European Union, and the possibilities of companies — whether these pemes or not — and of families are also much bigger than those we had a few years ago. Another issue that is also recurrent is that in Galicia, for example, the population has a bank entity in its county. And the population in Galicia has a banking entity in its county is 97.7%, which obviously is not the situation of what happens in most of Spain. So in Galicia I think we have the advantage of having an entity based on our territory, which centers their business in Galicia, and an important market share, to which I already refer. Therefore, Your Honor, allow me in this first intervention that insists that they stop trying to create uncertainties and fears between customers and investors, because fortunately the situation in Abanca is totally independent of the decisions that make the most responsible of the Venezuelan regime, which often gives me the feeling that your group has as a referee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u185	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez García has his retort.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u186	Counselor, before we get into flour — and I'm sorry — I'd like an incision, because you said we had collaborated on instability. You confuse instability with democracy, and you confuse stability. I think we've had stability here for 40 years. I mean, stability isn't having a corrupt government in power. Health for democracy and democratic stability is to remove the corrupt from power. The other day Mr. Feijóo squired in I don't know what not to answer his question. And today you've been shielded from the fact that it wasn't written, but I don't know if you have to bring prepared and studied to answer where is the letter of command that lacks the documentation that has been brought to the Galician Commission from the boxes that have been made to KPMG. Transcensive information, we want to know you, Counselor. Do you have to prepare it? Well, if you have to prepare it, tell me that I'm warning you to the next plenary, let's ask you a question and get the answer ready, or the reports of the Fatenda technicians. Do you think it's serious that we've been asking for this information for years and you don't? Do you think it's serious that it's gone or that it doesn't exist, Counselor? If it doesn't exist, they're also committing illegality, and if it doesn't exist, they teach it, too. So what are you hiding, what do you want to hide, Counselor? You said it! I know it wasn't in writing, but he hasn't had one or two fulls coming here, Counselor, and he knows how this goes. I'm talking about the Greek financial system, can you answer me here and resolve once and for all this controversy? Can you bring that information or do you want to keep it hidden? Then he spoke of prudence and responsibility. Well, God free me, then, that you were reckless and irresponsible! If the prudent and responsible is to promise a Galician box based on lies, based on an audit that was not auditing, that was evaluating the merger and not evaluating the merger, and ending up being a Venezuelan bank, then, if that is prudence and responsibility, Counsellor, I can't understand what would be irresponsible! No, the irresponsible and reckless were you, it was you!, who had two savings boxes with 40% of this country's savings and ended up being a Venezuelan bank with a hole of 8,000 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That was the result of the prudent and responsible policies of the People's Party and also of the Socialist Party; it is true, also of the Socialist Party. That was the result. Not from En Marea, from En Marea wasn't the result. Because in this country there was also one who said at that time, before the fusion was done, that fusion was better fission, that it was to put the holes together with one another and that that was not the solution; that the solution was that the boxes would do again what was in their nature, that it was to invest in the productive fabric and not devote themselves to speculation. And the result of his policies was what led to the bank being Venezuelan. Here the relations with Venezuela, Counselor, are yours, which were the ones that gave the bank to a Venezuelan businessman, a Venezuelan banker. We didn't give it to him, eh! We didn't want him to end up in the hands of a Venezuelan banker, it was you. Don't come and throw the dead in here! You were the ones who allowed him that. And then I also want to see if you answer and don't go in the sense that concentration... No, no, no, no. What happened here with the Greek financial system, improved concentration or deconcentration ratios or worsened them? That's what I should answer. With regard to the advantages that you now sell, that we have an entity located here, etc., I'll tell you that we had two savings boxes and now we have none. The nature of a bank is not the same as that of a savings box, Counselor. With a few savings banks, we would have the possibility of politically influencing them as economic dynamisation vectors. With a bank we don't have those weapons. With savings banks, this autonomy would have exclusive policies and competences to affect those policies. We don't have that development bench anymore, Counselor. If you come here and defend this, let's stay in the minutes. I think it's a failure of your policies. Therefore, Counsellor—and I am finished—contain us, even though he had not brought forward, on these two concrete questions which always eludes to answer. It's a right. We have to know that. The citizenry has to know that, and if there isn't, he has to know it, too, Counselor. I beg you to answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the word, for the reply, the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u188	Thank you, Mr. President, again. Your Honor, using your expression, I beg you earnestly, I pray you very earnestly, that I truly believe, honestly, in what I am saying. I have this faculty, to be wrong most of the time, that what we should do is, instead of causing uncertainty, try to move tranquility. I believe that we are in an entity — you referred to adjectives quite disrespectful, from my point of view, with regard to the Venezuelan character of certain people. I never do, nor do we, any kind of value judgment, because I think we are in front of an entity — as I said before — with solvency and liquidity, perfectly equal to any other, which has its headquarters in Galicia, also the prosecutor — and that is very important — that counts with 3,100 direct workers, with more than 12,000 workers — by having the seat here in Galicia, and which represents 40% of the savings, and also of the credit, that there is; with very great importance on our pemes and not so much pemes, and on our families, with different capital intensity. And when I see recent news and I see that, on the one hand, as such an entity has just bought — I think — Deutsche Bank's offices in Portugal, next door. A normal territorial trend, nothing adventurous, as happened in other stages, that we were dedicated to going to the Mediterranean in real estate pelotas, which was also referred to. Last week I think it went out in several ways that with a very important participation it comes into a company that's very important to Galicia, like being the new Pescanova. Of course, the bad thing about asking certain questions is that later reality contradicted what is often formulated here, in this rostrum or from this rostrum. And a third case, which I'm also referring to, is the climb that just made Moody's from the rating of this company. So, really, there's a reality that doesn't come along with the catastrophic message that you intend to bring to this gallery. What I can assure you is that since 2009 this government has always been committed to defending, within our competences — that it is resounding in competences and that it always returns to the past — that financial institutions have been and are rooted in the autonomous community. I think that's the case. Not many autonomous communities can speak of a system similar to what we have. And what we should all have is enough prudence, prudence! when we formulate the questions and when we look at what we actually do. I suppose you, who are a rather arc group iris, when we look at recent reports of certain loans and credits with regard to the Engineers' Box, man!, it doesn't go very well with the normal situation of what we've been saying here. What if I can tell you, too, so that here too all the words are collected, is that, with respect to the boxes, we are very proud of the Rural Box we have in Lugo — as you well know — that your professional trajectory has often been linked to the most agricultural or agricultural field in general. So let's take that into account. I believe that in his arguments there are usually deep contradictions, when he criticizes himself, for example, that Abanca had to be prevented from being absorbed by such a lord... and, however, the Pastor Bank did not criticise itself when in 2012 the first such, or on the second question. Or also if central services are maintained in Galicia or outside Galicia, etc. In both cases, Abanca, as such an entity, comes off favored and shocks the argument where you often intend to influence. When certain reasonings are brought here that are of little real character, I honestly tell you that they are not practical to most of the formulations that have been made. Use secondary or superfluous arguments. I don't know if you realize that all this is called... I don't want to be smart, but it seems to me that all of this is called ornate, ornamentation, which is fashionable these days — it seems to me — in relation to all this. There's another question I'd like to make clear. Not so much repeat certain questions, they'll be done, which is the topic of KPMG. Because what is clear is that, in the participation that was already here in 2013, the two people who intervened said they didn't receive instructions from the Board, subject number one. Number two. The main cause of the merger failure was regulatory and regulatory changes in which Joina has nothing to do with it, and the aim of the report was to evaluate the merger exclusively. So let's keep calm, let's not generate uncertainty. I believe that if something is positive, the Autonomous Community of Galicia is a level of stability. We are pleased to see how certain levels of employment are being created — as my partner replied at one time or another — I think that we are on the right track at a rate greater than 3%. I think in terms of unemployment and employment, we're going in the right way, gentlemen of En Marea...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u190	I will not ask him to rejoice at this type of data, but they do not intend to contaminate Galicia — it is the first lesson being studied in economics — of generating certain levels of uncertainty that we regret in the future. Let us value the great stability that we have, both political and institutional, in our community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. We suspended the meeting until 4.15 p.m., four and a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u192	We resumed the session with the accumulated debate on the questions, in particular by Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, Mr. Luís Villares Naveira and Mr. Moisés Rodríguez Pérez. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia on the immediate action plans developed by the Government of Greece to help people directly affected by the explosion of a pyrotechnic on May 23, 2018 at the Town Hall of Tui Question by Mr Luís Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the measures launched by the Galician Board to urgently address the needs of victims and families affected by the explosion of a pyrotechnic on May 23, 2018 at Tui Town Hall Question by Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the measures planned by the Government of Greece to help people who saw their homes damaged by the explosion of a pyrotechnics on May 23, 2018 in Tui Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u193	He begins by asking the question Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, the Socialist Party is not going to deal with the unfortunate accident that happened in the parish of Paramos, in Tui, as the People's Party did, which barely forty hours after the explosion called for a motion from the Pontevedra Parliament which was the measures that this MP had implemented to help solve the problems. We're not going to do that. [[Applause]] We are aware — and I want to take this opportunity to greet the neighbors and the mayor of Tui, here present — of the dramatic situation: of these two fatal victims, of these thirty wounded, of those ninety affected houses, of thirty houses completely destroyed, of sixty with the very damaged structure and fifty others with serious damage to the cover. In total — depending on some of the sources — seventy-fifty people affected. Some of the things that didn't come out in the press and that I, perhaps due to professional deformation, do I have in mind are those young men and girls who are currently preparing selectivity to entangle their lives at the university and who were affected by this explosion. There's a lot of collateral damage, to call it in a way — probably too wary but illustrative — that must be addressed. And it takes speed and agility. And there is a need for a cross-sectional plan of action, indeed, of all administrations, and I repeat that of all administrations because when next to the Vigo Council there was already the Deputy, since news and information were being moved from Galicia's board of deputies, and, as always, the Deputy of Pontevedra was not doing anything. It is also important — I am not saying that you, Mr Vice-President, have told us what we were certainly told by neighbors from there — the case of government powers. The government delegate, in an exercise of irrevocable political commitment, said, "Man, if it was an illegal thing, as we would know it was!" That is a similar approach to tax fraud. Anyway, I think there's a lot of issues to fix. In fact, you at the Thursday 31's Board of Directors have adopted a form of assistance that we believe is lacking, the housing-related themes are undoubtedly missing, which are probably the most important ones, the issues of industrial action are missing, infrastructure issues are missing, tourism-related issues are missing, and related issues are also missing, which is the primary sector's activity. And in relation to the construction of housing, we all know that some of the housing that was out of urban management, many of them built decades ago, because in the new planning they have an objective problem, because they are undoubtedly not located in plots that are in condition to be considered as building plots right now. So I understand perfectly that there is absolute concern on the part of the neighbors, and what we ask you to know, exactly, what is the road map of the German Government to solve this anxiety.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u195	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Mr. Villares' question is now put.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u196	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, good afternoon. I want to start by greeting, too, the victims of the explosion of Paramos, in Tui, who accompany us today. We have come to realize precisely in this question, among other things, that we have made an active listening to the affected persons themselves, to the people themselves, to the shortcomings they are experiencing at the moment and as a result of the explosion, as a result of what must be done by the Council of Galicia and which is not doing. We demand at this moment and we ask the public administrations to exercise each one's competences, not the time to demand any kind of political responsibility, but the exercise of the competition itself that comes forward, that for that we have a democratically constituted government, to meet the needs of citizenship, to which he has put it and to which he has not put it. We also understand that the way in which the people of Greece exercise their solidarity with the people affected, with the victims of this explosion, is precisely through their institutions, particularly through the Council of Galicia. We have seen during these -- practically -- two weeks -- an inability on the part of the competent administrations, and here in particular of the Galician Union, to properly manage a catastrophe that is not the only one, which is not the first that has occurred in our country in recent times. There were other dimensions, another scale, that went to the fires of October and that it seemed that we had to learn something and that we didn't seem to learn enough, which causes a sense of abandonment by parts of the people affected, by the victims at the time, even to compensate them materially for everything that happened, everything that they are living through, and by which they degrade their material conditions of existence of the effective exercise of their rights. I would like to refer to — and we want to put it in absolutely constructive terms — a number of shortcomings that are pointed out by the neighbours and neighbours to urge also the Council of Galicia, in the midst of this question, to which this situation is corrected, which we believe can give rise to a much more fair result. First of all, we are talking about compensation. We understand that the compensations that have been established, which have been made in the fire strike decrees, must be the compensations in the event of death and in the case of identical injured persons who are currently established as a result of Tui's explosion, because the circumstances have been analogous, since there has been no case — as stated by Galicia's own superior prosecutor's office — of either incendiary terrorism or anything similar, the normal thing is that there are circumstances similar to care and compensation, both for death and injury, are comparable. Secondly, in relation to housing, it was something that also reported those affected in the cases of dwellings burned in the wave of fires both for habitual housing and for unusual housing: the insufficiency to meet only 75% of the maximum reference value of the official shelter. We understand that 100 percent of the value of replacement shown both in normal housing and in unusual housing must be compensated. Thirdly, in relation to damage to the property of the plots or inside the dwellings, we consider that the limitation to 3,000 euros is not justified when they are considered to be considered to be damages of a higher value. And as for the accreditation of value is unfair, and so it was also stated in relation to those affected in the fire strike, that there are three different budgets for certain goods that are difficult to find in the market...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u198	...or that the search for these budgets is difficult because of its scarcity. Since I'm running out of time, then on the second shift I'll continue to make an exposition of what measures the neighbors and neighbors consider to be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u199	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Mr Rodríguez Pérez speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, mayor of Tui, members and neighbors of the affected platform and affected by the explosion of an illegal illegal and clandestine pyrotechnic warehouse in Tui, good afternoon to all. Mr. Vice-President, the urgency is motivated by the concern generated by the explosion of a clandestine and illegal warehouse of pyrotechnic material recorded last May 23 in Paramos, the Tower, specifically in Old Houses. To clarify something important, that what exploded wasn't the pyrotechnic located in Baldrans, which exploded was an illegal warehouse in Paramos. If the pyrotechnics were to explode, we wouldn't be talking about this catastrophe. Explosion, ladies and gentlemen, which has caused irreparable personal damage, in addition to numerous material damage to homes and businesses of many people, and psychological damage that they are already suffering now and in the future. From this parliamentary group we deeply regret the death of two Moroccan nationals, Abdelkhalek and Ezzohra, and point out that two children were orphaned. We want to transfer our solidarity and our affection to his family, to the wounded and to all affected. I am aware, as I do, of the situation that many of my neighbours are experiencing as a result of the countless damage this terrible event has caused in their homes, I myself could be affected, because I live in Guilllarei. A situation, ladies and gentlemen, which requires immediate action to provide solutions and help affected families and businesses. My neighbours want to return as soon as possible to normality, they don't want, ladies and gentlemen, political disputes, what they demand are immediate solutions. As Ayala well says, my ex-pedane, which had a large house wants a large house, which had a small house wants a small house, which had a car wants a car. No one here wants more than what they had before the explosion. How do you do it? That's what administrations and politicians are for. We all know what happened, let justice work, waiting for the possibilities and responsibilities to be clarified, on the one hand the judicial route, on the other hand the administrative route, and most importantly, the neighbours of Paramos. We stop, Guillarei and all the people affected demand solutions, they want to recover as soon as possible what they've been robbed of in a catastrophic way. They want to rehabilitate, they want to rebuild their homes, their homes, they want to recover their lives, they need their businesses, they need psychologists, they don't want urban traffic, they don't want taxes, they don't want complications, they're not responsible for what happened. Paramos must ascertain which Ave Phoenix and we all have to commit to help, each as far as possible. We must involve — President, finished already — all administrations: the Town Hall of Tui, is already doing so; the Deputy of Pontevedra, is about to see; the Council of Galicia, with the various councils, is already doing so, the only administration that put money on the table. One more minute and finished, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u201	No, thank you. You have to finish now. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u202	One second and the end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u203	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u204	We must do what is possible and what is impossible, this catastrophe far exceeds municipal competences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u205	Thank you. You have another shift after Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u207	Thank you. Response by Vice-President of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u208	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. A greeting—as did all those who intervened before me—to the affected platform and to the mayor of Tui as the highest authority of the Town Hall who are here today, and I am glad and that they are. I really won't do it, I think I have it easy, honestly, since it's been two weeks and each administration can already portray itself in what he's done and in what he hasn't done. I come here to talk, logically I'll have to talk about what I think we all need to do. I'm talking about what the Galician Union did. I'm glad you're here to hear it first-hand. Today, Mrs. President-in-Office said that the job they've done to you was not that they've put money in, not that they've given help, no, no, they've represented them for other administrations to get wet. I am glad to see that they represent themselves directly, that no one is needed to represent them; I am sure that that was not the task they did to him; therefore, they come here to hear, here, in the Galician Parliament, where we speak to the members of the Government of Galicia, of what he did to the Council of Galicia and of what the Council of Galicia believes we all have to do for — as the People's Party deputy said — that those who had a house can simply get what it is asking, which is absolutely fair, to be back as it was before the explosion, no less. So I wanted to say hello to the affected, I think we have to make a recognition, too, to all who have worked since now will do two weeks today, a Wednesday -- I was out of this full when they told me that there was the explosion, so it's two weeks ago -- there were a lot of people there working on emergency services, and I think they deserve recognition. I think that the different political representatives, Mr. Losada—it's that if we started to talk, really...—I have been there since the first moment, just as there were others, I don't even know which party or administration they were, I saw a lot of people there and I saw that those who were actually working -- we were trying to inform and not to stow -- were the emergency services, so I do that recognition, and if you want to take it, not to talk about other things, whether there was one or if there was another, I can tell you who was there and who wasn't, I'm not going to go in there. There were the political representatives, I think it was important that they were there, but I think it was much more important, after the terrible event of the explosion and its aftermath, to start working on the post-explosion and its consequences, which began immediately afterwards, and that is what we are. I'm sure the people who are listening to us are exactly what they want. So, I think it was a point of attention for the affected -- the next day already, that the President of the Galician Union visited them -- to create a crisis cabinet just so we can coordinate ourselves, because we all have to wet, all the administrations, which we don't manage our resources, we manage resources from people who pay with their taxes, including those affected by Tui; therefore, what we will expect is that we coordinate ourselves, and I believe that the mayor of Tui is doing a great job, which is what he has to do — it's also his obligation — to coordinate us all to help the affected people who need it. I think doing that crisis cabinet and being from the very first moment is what we all had to do. I believe that the Galician Council, with that judicial support which is giving the judge to investigate the case, with experts since Friday — when he asked them at two hours ago, which was our duty, which are those who are working with her, the reinforcement of Tui's trial, I think that that part is perfectly covered, and of course the judge has to know that anything he needs is in Galician Union to meet his obligations, and as soon as he teaches, and as soon as he can recover the damage and punish the guilty, much better. Look, a week later we declared the emergency situation, that's what we had to do. I believe that between the council and the council we worked on and valued the damage, and we decided or found it better, it was easy to see, that there was an emergency situation that required the administrations to act, from then on in Galicia. This could have been done by the other administrations, since then the Board of Galicia has already done so, we have declared the emergency situation, we have issued a decree that it is to enable the councils to immediately provide not what they already gave to the Town Hall — as it has been said, and we can talk about it — but with resources without taking away anything that corresponded to the Town Hall of Tui, resources other departures to immediately assist all those neighbors and neighbors who need it, and they urgently need it. In what? What else they're demanding. A lot of people stayed out of their homes, a lot of people ran out of their homes. These people first have to worry about where they're living, hotels, and the Galician Union takes the costs. They want to be restored immediately, no one likes to live in a hotel — because they have no choice — therefore they must immediately look for houses in collaboration with the Town Hall so that they can go, fit their characteristics. There were very diverse features, there were people who either didn't have enough floors, or wanted a one-family home because of the circumstances. That was done, and I think right now, right now, today, and according to the data that happens to me, there's only one person waiting for real estate. He immediately began to talk about what concerns people too, what he has to do, who will help him rebuild his home and who will help him to fix it, whether it's an arrangement or simply move to another house if the reconstruction of his house is not possible by any circumstances. That's what people are asking us to do, that's what we have to do, and that, of course, is what the Galician Union is doing. And of course, that's why we have to talk about how administrations speak, that's not worth saying... when I hear that this is a competition from others, in which law, Mr. Losada and Mr. Villares, comes that when you exploit an illegal warehouse of pyrotechnics competition is an administration? The competition is for all administrations that have to help those affected so that these consequences can be mitigated as soon as possible. [[Applause]] And if we don't understand that, we don't understand anything. And the way those affected see that we're understanding them is to see that orders are immediately published so they can order the money, and that they can see that administration officials are there to inform them of what they have to do. Of course there are many errors to correct, this situation is the first time we've all faced them; of course we have to listen to them in their fair demands; and of course we have to tell them whether we believe they're right or whether we believe they have it, as they've had it in many of the things we've done and we've made mistakes that we've made. But of course, you have to take out the order first, if you don't take out an order and you say competition is someone else, because there's nothing to correct. The Galician Union issued an order, corrected the mistakes that were made and that are already corrected, and people can ask for it. Tomorrow the applications are published, tomorrow they leave after the decree we published in the DOG, they publish the order that enables for the worth of more than seven million euros, Mr. Losada and Mr. Villares, and people are what they want. Seven million euros for reallocations, for rentals, for repairing houses, for buying them if not possible, for rebuilding them. All that is what he wants, and all that is accompanied, of course, by technicians who go with them to the houses, technicians of the board, too, by the way, and of the Town Hall. Basically, we're doing our obligation—and others if they can't do it—to accompany them and tell them if their homes are safe, if they can live in them again regardless of whether they have to be repaired, or if they can just come in for a moment to pick up supplies that they need to live somewhere else. That's what people want, that's what people expect from responsible administrations, but for that they have to get wet, it's not that it's something else, it's not worth looking up and waiting to see what other administrations do. If we did that, there wouldn't be a euro right now; yes, there would be, sorry, because the Town Hall of Tui has already announced it puts a million euros. Considerable effort — it is also your obligation, of course — given the budget of the Tui Town Hall, to put a million euros; in my modest opinion, it is a considerable effort. And also an effort that you have to make the Galician board put seven million euros, they are already and you can already ask from tomorrow, but we have already warned, from the beginning, that we can give you details of all this and, of course, we'll be there explaining what the processing is. We're trying to make it as easy as possible, with the exception of the grant law, and people don't have to forward money. The one of the three budgets, Mr. Villares, is that there are a number of things that we cannot break those rules. However, we also offer the possibility of what the Galician Union itself values, which value the experts delegated by the Galician Union so that there will not even be one to present the three budgets. It's about making it easy, it's about not complicate people's lives, but in order not to complicate them, you have to give them a chance to ask for it, and that's why we have to publish games and help. And we've already said from the beginning that only with the intervention of the Galician Union will not be enough, the damage is very substantial. The most urgent thing is housing, that's what people are asking us, we have to have a place to live. People who have stayed out of their homes suddenly, that's the first thing you have to do, and you have to pay for bail expenses for rentals, and you have to pay for mobility expenses, and you have to help rent a car if the house is far from its place of work, from the place where they usually lived. We have to talk to the insurance companies, of course, the insurance companies have to pay everything, but what they don't have to be sure we can't let it go; therefore, we're doing it too. Finally, we must get wet, of course orders will come out too, and you do well to say, will the Council of Galicia also take into account the damage of commercial establishments and the damage in the primary sector? Of course, what can't be said is that the Council of Galicia has to do everything and say that the rest don't have to do anything. Here or we all work together, or we work to help these people, or in the end these people will be unattended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u209	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u210	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Vice-President, look, the truth is that this call to unity, which I share, is not exactly what the People's Party in the province of Pontevedra, which you run, did at the plenary session on May 25. So, I'm glad that you come back and you return to inter-administrative cooperation, but the laws confer powers on administrations, and all cooperation, but the competences are who they are. [[Applause]] We are very accustomed in this Parliament to seeing the German Government dump balloons out every time it has an opportunity, and evidently the Pontevedra Deputy put the 2.7 million euros allocated to the Town Hall plan for Tui, in the ease with the plan the Town Hall redirects them wherever it wants. Yes, yes, Mr. Rueda. Do you know what's going on? That the Deputy of Pontevedra now does not have 25 million euros of free will as Mr. Louzán had. That's the point! [[Applause]] So it's a little more complicated to allocate funds. That's the point. [[Protests.]] I don't know why they're upset, it's a fact that it's published in the media, it had 25 million euros to give them to the municipalities as it asked, and that's why he was president of the MP and the PP had the electoral results he had in Pontevedra province. Let's see if we know what we're talking about! Mr Vice-President, a good part — beyond the accident and the illegality manifests — has to do with an urbanism which is unfortunately carried out on that stage of "you doing", and which ends up as a result of an alleged criminal, indeed, acting irregularly and happening what has happened. What concerns us, Mr. Rueda, and today comes the news in the newspaper ABC, a little suspicious: "Store the works in the zero part of the October fire wave." Eight months later! We are concerned that the same thing happens in the zero area of Paramos, that's what concerns us, Mr. Rueda, and as you are very concerned about the Deputy of Pontevedra, don't worry so much about the Deputy of Pontevedra and do the work you have to do in your competences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u211	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u212	Yes, Mr. Rueda, in relation to the matter of competence of the Council of Galicia, we are not going to argue on the subject, but we are going to give the fact that they are, at least, the same as during the fire strike of October, so the proposals we make here after listening to the neighbors and the neighbors intend to improve the deficiencies observed in that decree. Then I continue. Let's see, not a special psychological care plan has been established for the victims, not only for the people of Paramos themselves, but also for the surroundings, even for the professionals who attended them in the first few hours, and it should be done, in addition to adopting a disaster plan that is still pending at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. We haven't talked about any of the decoupling tasks, and they think the neighbors would have to take up this work in a coordinated way, trying to rescue their personal beings and do that conciliable with security conditions. We're also talking about that claim office that should have a technical advisory office to go ahead with procedures and executive orders to neutralize risks for people or things that can fall from the hedges of the houses, etc. A judicial office to advise on these legal aspects, on the processing of aids that should be jointed with the simultaneous processing of large-scale interventions, such as comprehensive reconstruction with the repositioning of elements that are smaller, such as windows, etc., and that could give rise to people's coming back to their homes soon and therefore not all of them taking the same procedure. As far as tax obligations are concerned, we believe that it is necessary to avoid as a requirement the citizen's obligation to be aware of compliance with tax obligations for access to aid. It can't be that because a person doesn't know about the payment of the IBI, after last year's catastrophe, if they deny him this help until he does. As for the temporary accommodation, we believe that it is necessary to compensate for the expenses incurred so far by the accommodation served by hotels and hostels that have voluntarily opened their doors to neighbouring areas. We also think that vehicles must be valued at the actual cost of replacement. We believe that there must be – yes, and there we give you the reason – inter-administrative collaboration in the reconstruction of the devastated area, it should be model reconstruction, and for that there should be action on three axes: firstly, the integral re-urbanisation of the area; secondly — and shortening — the environmental and urban counseling for that reconstruction; and thirdly, the full intervention of social services. And finally, of course, the activation of State contingency funds, therefore the establishment of a line of dialogue between the Galician Union and the State for the activation of these contingency funds. Because it's a lot and it's more extensive than this, then I'll leave the battery of initiatives at your disposal, so that before the production of aid is published, they can be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u213	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Replica, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u214	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. You have first-hand seen the magnitude of the tragedy, and at the same time the great luck, within the misfortune. We are all aware of the human tragedy that could happen if the explosion occurred at another time, a true miracle! Terrible human tragedy at the death of Abdelkhalek and Ezzohra and two children without parents. The deployment of material and human means was fast and wide, and nobody questions it. Now we enter another phase, we enter the reconstruction phase of housing, business, and, above all, reconstruction of people's lives: regain normality, restore their homes. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for explaining so clearly what the Galician Union is doing through the various councils. I, as you might say, have made a commitment to my neighbors to return them to normal as soon as possible, aware that there are things that can be solved immediately, small works that can be done to authorize the neighbors to return to their homes. Small works, and other works of rehabilitation or reconstruction that we are all aware that it will take a little longer. We have a long way to go, and the neighbors and neighbors of Guillarei and Paramos can't do it alone. It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, that all administrations be involved in resolving this terrible situation as soon as possible. The panorama lived is a war scene, we have to give peace back to the people who lived there and want to live again as before the explosion. Neighbors ask us not to put them away. The People's Group won't do it. I live there. That's my commitment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u215	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. Turning to this question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I thank you for giving me all the documentation, all the requests; many of them I already know; I also talked to them, and the Board is talking to them. Anyway, welcome be all that's worth to hit among all of you, welcome be. You can't give me anything before the aid is implemented, because the help is already being sent to the CEO, which is going to be published tomorrow, so there's 7 million euros available to the people up there, which is what they're waiting for. For future achievements, okay, but it's already sent to the DOG, and from tomorrow 7 million euros at the disposal of the people who need it. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, look, it's really not worth wasting your time. You ask me, what are you talking about here? What are we talking about here? You know what we're talking about? Of the people who are there and who have no home. That's what we're talking about. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You, who here spoke on behalf of the Deputy, told them about Louzan. Do you think people who are homeless come here to tell you about Louzan? Do you think the people who are homeless come here to listen as you tell them that the money that the Deputies give them for sanitation, for day care, for the garbage collection, that they don't spend on it, that they don't pick up garbage or sanitation, and that they dedicate it to it, because there won't be another euro? Don't you forget anything? [[Murmurs.]] That this is a legal matter of competence and that the law clearly states that when an illegal warehouse is operated in a county, and people are homeless, can't MP put money? Where's a law that says that? That's what you just said, Mr. Losada, that's what you just said. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm very sorry, and I'm not going to deviate from what matters to the Galician Council when it already has 7 million euros at its disposal, without taking anything from Tui's neighbours to continue claiming what is necessary. Of course there's a lot of damage to repair! We must do the trick — as Mr. Villares said —. I've been there and I've come, he's been, too, and he's seen that it's got to be done, and that's going to cost money. Just like reurbanizing will cost money. Just like we're already working, of course, on everything that has to do with the legal impediments that might have appeared. But don't worry, that we're going to make it as easy as possible, even we're going to make it easier for people to get the chance that if I don't want to rebuild the house, I can buy another one, and that's never done, that comes out in order tomorrow. But that's why I say we need the help of all administrations. Hey, we declared this emergency one week. I can understand that the State, with the change of government, cannot do so in this Council of Ministers — which would be very good if it had done so — but we hope it will do so in the next week. What more urgent things will there be right now that, after the explosion, help Tui's neighbours? I hope that next week, after the Council has asked for it, at the Council of Ministers — not this week, in which it comes — the situation of the municipality concerned — now called a catastrophic zone declaration — will be declared by a special emergency of civil protection intensity. I hope they do. Galician union did it in a week. I know there's a lot to do. We had the State's help, we didn't have the Pontevedra Parliamentary. I say it so they can see what they can expect. Not even a euro from the Pontevedra Parliament for the fire-affected municipalities, many of them from the Socialist Party. State aid arrived, 23 million euros from Galician Union arrived. They'll be here now, tomorrow, 7 million euros from Galicia, too, for Tui's affected. And we will take orders, as I said earlier, for the primary sector, for commercial establishments, if there are them, for what is needed. But we're not coming. The money we manage is the same as you handle, they're those people up there, they're not us. So let's all be available, let's not tell them about Louzán, let's not talk about competition, let's tell them what we're going to do for them. Let's talk about how they're gonna be able to order the money and how we're going to have to put everybody, because if we don't, it won't come. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada and Mr. Villares, I appreciate those contributions, we'll take them into account. I hope that they will do the same force as we will do with the state so that the state immediately, in less than a week — as did the Council of Galicia — will declare the old disaster zone — that there was before and now has another name, as I said — and will start to enable aid. I hope the deputy rectifies and does not leave the neighbours of Tui, Mr. Losada. The question wasn't Friday, two days after the explosion: what help did you put up with the Deputy? The question was, what help are you going to put? And you know what you did? He wasn't allowed to ask, because, of course, if they ask, the answer is: nothing, it's our business, the law says it's other people, to us or to look at us, it doesn't go with us. That's not good, that doesn't solve problems, that doesn't return them home or that doesn't bring them back that they can live in a damaged house for the neighbors who are up here. Of course we'll still help. We're already in psychological care. We are aware that, after that first attention that was to be made through the disaster intervention group, they are still needed. They tell us, too, Mr. Villares. And you've already told us that you don't have to derive them from the Cousin, that you have to pay attention there, and we're already working with Sergas on it, of course. We are also aware of people's problems with tax obligations. The first is to try the exemption. Listen! I hope we all are now strong enough so that, if you have to pay the IRPF in this case, just as we exempt the Grants Act, and through the legal mechanisms that are needed — you could put a hand there — to see how we can get that you don't have to pay the IRPF for the aid they receive at least from the Board of Galicia. This is a matter of will, it's not our competition. We asked him, we were already asking him -- and from the platform they're aware -- when we didn't know there was going to be a change of government, and we're following him now. Now that there's a change of government, you have a lot easier. Let's see, Mr. Losada, if the Deputy considers that at least talking to another government is a matter of its competence. Or is that not it? Maybe you don't have to put a penny on one of these actions. At least, if they don't have to spend, maybe they're a little upset, or maybe they think at least they have to help them. Look—and I'm finished now, Mr. President, because I think it's all said—there's 7 million euros in the CEO tomorrow to help the people of Tui, from Galicia, in two weeks, after declaring the emergency situation in the first week, after we put ourselves to work seriously, after we stopped doing other things that weren't so urgent for people, from tomorrow, and not wasting their time in these two weeks, because we're already valuing ourselves with experts from Galicia, with the judicial experts sent by the Galician Board, by the judicial requirement, as are housing, which is what people want. People don't come here to see us argue, people come here to tell everyone what they're going to do. And I think that, after these three interventions, after these four, with my colleague from Tui, it became clear what the Council of Galicia is going to do, what we hope the state will do and what it won't do. And if so, I'll let you know it's not coming. I hope we're all right. They're counting on the Galician Union. I think we're proving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u217	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to ensure the industrial viability of the Couruña Arms Factory
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u218	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u219	Yes, good afternoon. And good afternoon to the former workers of the Coruña Arms Factory who accompany us today. Counsellor, as you know, over eight years ago General Dynamics claimed that his Pedralonga factory, in the Coruña, had a good future and would contribute to what Spain had been -- they said -- one of the important countries in Europe for this multinational. But in 2013 he closed the facilities, with the dismissal of his workers. In 2014 the Coruña Arms Factory had been assisted by the Ministry of Defence, the owner of the facility, the company Hercules de Armamente, in public competition, participating in a very proactive manner the current Greek Government and the Town Hall of Coruña, then being mayor of Mr. Black. As we have already indicated in previous initiatives submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the adjudicator has assumed, according to the requirements of conditions, commitments in job creation and production, with the introduction of an annual canon of EUR 250,000, receiving 127,000 square metres of the factory, equipped with high-precision machinery. Hercules of Armament was committed in their business plan to an initial total investment of 2 million euros and 5 to more than three years. The new concessionaire plans to bill 20 million euros annually, specializing — as you know — in armaments and aeronautical lines, with the incorporation of 155 workers in the first year and 200 in the second, attempting to become — it was said — at the heart of Galicia's R & D+i. The former workers of the Arms Factory are systematically complaining, with insistence, before the Ministry of Defence, the Government Delegation and the Council of Galicia, that the adjudication to Hercules of Armament was a genuine industrial bluff, because, after the initial drawbacks — as we know — between the partners, the concessionary is systematically and flagrantly violating the conditions of the concession, in terms of industrial activity, payment of the cannon, creation of employment, compensation for wages or debts to social security and the Tax Agency, without so far being aware of the actions of the Ministry of Defence to enforce the concession clauses or without proceeding to their immediate termination. The debts of Hercules of Armament, at least with data at the beginning of this year, could be reaching more than 7 million euros. And after requesting the workers of Hercules of Armament to their Counsellor meetings to search for solutions since 2015, in February 2017 they were received to search for solutions to a new industrial project, without any further response from the Government of Greece, since those dates, Counsellor. It seems that the company, Mecanizados Escreano, had announced to be in contact with the Galician Board to enter as a new investor partner before the summer of 2017, so it's almost a year ago. That is why, Counsellor, the question we have put back from the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, and with great concern from the entire industrial fabric of the Coruña, is: what measures do you intend to adopt or whether you have already taken the measures since those talks with the representatives of the former workers of the Arms Factory to ensure the industrial viability of the Coruña Arms Factory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u220	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Díaz, what are we accused of? What do you intend to accuse the Government of with your question? You know perfectly well that this government has done everything in its hand to ensure industrial activity in the Weapons Factory and continues to work and will continue to work towards the future. In fact, when General Dynamics decided to close the Arms Factory, we tried to reach an agreement to have a new industrial partner take over that activity. He knows perfectly well that we don't comply and, when that closure occurred, we worked, together with the Council and with the workers, to get the Ministry of Defence to bid the facilities of the Weapons Factory for a new industrial project, always in the workers' consensus and always defending the interests of the workers. And now — and you know it well — the Galician Union is following the evolution of the current situation. So the question is, exactly, what do you intend to accuse this government of? Your Honor, you know that this administration is not the holder of these facilities, you know that. You know, moreover, that the Galician Council did not call, at no time did it intervene in the development of the competition and not in its adjudication, it did not have any role in the whole process, and you know that, in order to assess the fulfilment of the commitments of the Ministry of Defence, there is indeed a follow-up commission in which the Galician Union does not participate. Therefore, Mr. Díaz, I think you are confusing your question, decontextualizing the place where you must make it. And I say this because what is surprising is the lack of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Come here and come here and talk about industrial activity. And what I ask you is, what does the Galician Socialist Party do to defend industrial activity? Because it turns out you have a speech in the Coruña and you have another speech in this House. They come here to ask the Government what it's doing and I answer it. And indeed, we continue to work and continue to hold conversations and meetings with the Government of Spain to find a solution. And we will support any project that is profitable. [[Murmurs.]] The question I ask you is, why don't you guys support industry in the Town Hall? Why not support the Town Hall of Coruña to subscribe to the Doing Business Council and, therefore, to lower taxes on the taxation of industrial activities in Coruña? Why does the Galician Socialist Party have an industrial discourse in the Coruña and an industrial discourse in Santiago? The question is, what industrial discourse are you going to have in Madrid? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u222	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u223	Yes, Mr. Conde, I am certainly surprised, first of all, because he obviously gave no answer, not to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but to the workers and the workers of the Arms Factory. I didn't know what to ask was to accuse. I didn't know or I don't think you know we're on duty in the plenary sessions of government control. So, this question of asking whose question seems to be an evasive technique that does not... yes, Counselor, because precisely it does not answer... I believe that this morning in his intervention he accused a certain victimism before the change of government. [[Applause]] And I say it because I use this technique again. [[Murmurs.]] So they don't use victimism, they don't use doubts about competences when at the end of their question they're talking about they're working on finding agreements. Because, Counsellor, if they were working or working until this day with the Ministry of Defence, I suppose they knew perfectly the conditions for the termination of the arms factory, even though the Ministry of Defence, so far, led by Minister Cospedal, was announcing that they did not detect irregularities in the weapons factory. And this is last March. At least this is what we were told in Congress, in the Senate Defense Commission, by popular Senator Maria Aparicio. According to this senator from the People's Party, the Ministry of Defence does not detect any irregularities in the Coruña Arms Factory. Is this possible? You will have to respond to this situation. The Weapons Factory has cut off the light and water since the other day. Precisely, the Ministry of Defence withdrew the permit a few days ago to manufacture weapons for lack of security and for lack of pay to security workers. These workers, as you well know, of the Weapons Factory are systematically and weekly, presenting complaints to the different administrations, even the Labour Inspectorate, to claim the factory situation and non-compliances.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u224	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u225	Even the Chamber of Commerce is detecting precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u226	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u227	...a fall in industrial activity that has to be solved. That is why we ask you, Mr. Conde, to respond, not to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but to the workers of the Arms Factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u229	Close, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u230	The truth is, when you have nothing to say, obviously a surprise moves you to a parliamentary debate. It seems you come here and don't want to participate in that parliamentary debate. What I'm telling you is that, in fact, the Socialist Party of Galicia has no industrial policy discourse in the Coruña. That's the reality. So, about to come here and take a hunch to try to transfer a defense of industrial activity to the Crown because really let me bring my surprise to you precisely because of the attitude of the Socialist Party of Galicia. You know — because I transfer it, and logically we are in the Parliamentary House — that we, when ruling the People's Party in Madrid, were defending the entire continuity of industrial activity in the Weapons Factory. And have no doubt: we will continue to maintain it with the new Government, to which, of course, we will ask you the same thing, Mr. Díaz: the utmost agility so that the situation of the Arms Factory can be resolved and, therefore, if we can guarantee that activity. What we're not going to ask the Socialist Party in Madrid is no kind of illegality, that's not what we're going to ask them, no kind of illegality. And we're not going to ask you to repeat the guidelines; neither are we going to ask you, Your Honor, to do any kind of illegality; and we're going to ask you, logically, to solve the situation of the Weapons Factory with maximum speed. We have full confidence in the Ministry of Defence's follow-up commission, we have had it with the People's Party, we will continue to maintain that same confidence with the Socialist Party and we will not change our position, and we will demand that solution with the same intensity. I believe that, frankly, Mr Díaz, you cannot come here to Parliament to defend industrial projects and maintain a totally different position in the Crown. You in Coruña don't defend industry, that's reality, you don't defend industry; you don't do anything so that the Town Hall of Coruña will sign the Doing Business agreement and, therefore, if you lower taxation on industry in the Town Hall of Coruña. That's the reality. So, come here and make a Parisian trying to move that they defend the industry, I don't think it's a receipt. In any case, we will continue to be on the sidelines of any initiative that suggests a future alternative to the facilities of the Weapons Factory, thus continuing to defend any project. It is true to me that the only thing that surprises me of his intervention is not lack of coherence; that lack of coherence is common in the Socialist Party in industrial matters; what I am surprised at is that he did not tell us what the Socialist Party's position in Galicia would be in Madrid. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u231	Thank you, Mr. Count. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece regarding the request for authorisation of the megaminary project in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino, given its environmental impact on the production sector of the Arousa River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u232	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u233	It'll be announced.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u234	I'm surprised, Mr. President, because it was a question addressed to the sea councillor and usually, when you're not going to be the sea councillor, who was here in the morning, because they're moving forward or asking for a change of schedule; and the truth is, I'm pretty surprised that you haven't been asked that time and that you're not here to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u235	You know the Government can answer in solidarity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u236	The question would not be addressed to the Government, it would be addressed explicitly to the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u237	Well, it's the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u238	The government answered in solidarity, but it's surprising that, when you were here in the morning, you hadn't asked for change...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u239	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u240	...of hours to answer and if you don't have the courage to come and answer a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u241	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u242	... explicitly addressed to her for a matter that touches her. [[Applause]] The truth is, it's quite surprising. And in any case, I'm going to make it as if it were, because it was the one who was going to address it, because that's the way it is, indeed. Well, I was going to go to her because the Arousa creek is a cry against the megaminary project that is intended to be installed in the Town Hall of Touro and O Pino. [[Murmurs.]] There is a unanimous pronouncement of all the municipalities on both sides of the river, all the confrries, associations of mussels, debuggers, asking for no approval of this project. In the face of this cry, the question was whether the Counselor of the Sea would listen, he would hear the laugh, and, as far as I can see, no, of course. You don't have the courage to be here today to answer this question. If it's going to continue to be installed in the Jordan, I see that it is; in the sovereignty, I see that it is; in the pre-dominance of ruling from back to back to the sector to which it has to defend, I see that it will continue to be installed in that pre-eminence and the deafness. A clearly speculative and colonial project of reaping many benefits in a short time and stealing taxes. Have all the alarms been dropped justifiably? At the BNG we believe that yes, because to separate the copper, chemical compounds will be used with a very high level, because all the material will be deposited in huge highly polluting rafts, it will occupy an area equivalent to five football fields, valued at three kilometers, 80 meters high, because this megaminary project will be installed in a territory where all the water courses go to the Ulla and Ulla will arrive in the stream. It's going to become a highway of contaminants, of heavy metals, of very high risk of breaking rafts. There is already the result of some analysts who asked Addega to Galician Waters, and these analysts confirm the contamination of all the rivers around the ancient mine; that is, all the rivers around the ancient mine are contaminated, according to analytics of Galician Waters. And, then, what we're asking you is whether you think it's assumed for the laugh and whether you're going to do something to avoid this potential risk. And in addition, we asked you if you're going to have the courage to ask for the bill, that this project is not approved by sectoral projects, but is approved by the board of directors, given the highest importance of the project and the risks of what we're talking about, not only where the mine is going to be installed, but the Arousa River, which is the richest stream not only of Galicia, but in this case of Galicia, of which directly live 30,000 families; we're talking about the economic potential of the first magnitude, and of course there's the possibility that it's the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u244	...of the board of assembly whatever makes the decision. With which, Counselor, absent, will you take that risk or will you have the courage to make any decisions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I am glad to see, once again, that the policy of the Galician Nationalist Block mining is synonymous with mere demagogy. And I'm telling you more: I don't think I'm responsible for using institutions like Parliament to turn your opinion into a dogma of faith. And I'm also sorry that you don't dare explain to the citizen what this government is doing, that it's nothing but applying the Galician Mining Act of 2008, adopted by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[Applause]] Your political party's position on the mining, Your Honor, is collected, black on white, in this House's Journal of Sessions and is written and read by the then counsellor of the Nationalist Block Galician. Look, considering this law, Mr. Blanco Álvarez said textually: "I am convinced that mining is compatible with environmental respect, job creation and wealth creation." [[Parliament delivered the sitting on 27 November]] The question, Your Honor, has since changed in the Galician Nationalist Block. But I'm telling you more: in your approval, the same leader of the Galician Nationalist Block, then Industry Advisor, said textually, "The final result is a law that responds to the necessary update of the Galician mining sector, which sets a stable framework, legal certainty and rules for administrations, entrepreneurs and workers, which will mean that mining development in our country is done under parameters of normality, responsibility and environmental respect." [[May 13, 2008]] Your Honor, what has changed since then? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u247	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Prado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u248	Mrs. Fisheries Advisor, absent, a mining law that the People's Party took care of because it didn't want to have instruments to deal with colonial companies. And look, a government has legal instruments to act, except when it doesn't want to, and then he changes them using any excuse. There's a long history of company failures, attempts to hide the real dimension of the project. There is now data from the analyses carried out by Galician Waters, delivered to Adega, which requested the reports, which are demolition; they confirm the contamination of all rivers around the mine of Touro-O Pino, pollution by heavy metals and high acidity, affecting the quality of surface water and buried within a minimum length of 65 square kilometers around the mine, at least for the last ten years. Where are they gonna stop all the water? To Ulla. Where's Ulla gonna stop? To Arousa's creek. Madam Counsellor of the Sea, absent, will you defend the interests of the Arousa River, which you have to defend, and therefore ask for counsel in the Board of Boards for the magnitude of this project that puts at risk the full potential of a river, thousands of jobs, in front of a speculative company, or will you put yourself on the side of the company? That's what you have to answer. What has changed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? We're not talking about a technical issue, we're talking about a model of country and government that either side of its productive sectors or side of a speculative and colonial company; that's what we're talking about: either side of the interests of the productive sectors of this country, of the land and the sea, or side of a speculative and colonial company. They have instruments, they have company failure, they have reports — just out of the oven — from Galician Waters, not from any one, but from Galician Waters, where it's said that right now, with the mine closed, all the watercourses are contaminated, absolutely all of them. They have instruments, they have reports, they have everything. What they don't have is political will. [[Applause]] This Sunday they're going out to the streets of Compostela...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u249	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u250	...to tell them loud and clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u252	...who want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u253	Close this question, Economic, Employment and Industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, you shouldn't be so nervous, because we're in a parliamentary debate, with all ease. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Unfortunately, you see that you do not respect this government — it is your problem, logically — but this government will continue to respect the different political groups, even you. In any case, the country model and the mining model of this country logically is written in the Official Journal of Galicia and approved by the Government of Galicia, which at the time was the Galician Nationalist Block. That's the reality. You're now ashamed of what your own political party passed in 2008. Well, I'm sorry, Your Honor. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] But surely in 2008 he had a chance. And I'm telling you this because you yourself, Mrs. Prado, have applied this law yourself, and you yourself have participated in the approval of 100 research permits and yourself, as delegate of the Industry Council in Pontevedra, has approved 43 operating concessions in four years. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, I understand that you are ashamed of what you have certainly done, your own political party, but you had occasion, first, not to assume it at your own time and not to apply it, and you did not. So now it's very difficult. This government what you're doing, Mrs. Prado, and I'm telling you normally, with all ease, is applying the law that designed the Nationalist Block Galego. So it's a law that we're going to keep applying. We will, logically, continue to process the project and all the projects that will transfer us to the Administration; we will continue, Your Honor, by giving explanations in Parliament and when we do so we demand the opposition groups; we will continue to address all the doubts that the groups may have in the various meetings that we are already holding, included, logically, the representatives of the Arousa River; and we will continue to make available all the documentation and all the records relating to mining, both in processing and in those resolved or historical records. Everything, Your Honor, maximum transparency and maximum rigour in the application of the law passed by the Nationalist Block of Wales. So, Your Honor, we are in addition to that position of the Galician Nationalist Block that defends a mine under parameters of normality, of responsibility, of environmental respect, and we will logically continue to ensure the sustainable use of our mineral resources. And the Touro project, Your Honor, whether approved or not, will not depend on you or on this government, will depend, simply on the fulfilment of all urban, environmental and technical guarantees, as reflected in the law of the 2008 mining, adopted by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u255	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions carried out or planned by the Government of Greece to meddle in the labour conflict of the staff of the maintenance service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u256	Whenever you want. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u257	Good afternoon, Counselor. Today the BNG brings to this House a situation that is unsustainable, an unsustainable situation from which you, from the Health Council, cannot continue to look elsewhere. It is another example, in addition, that they are leading us to a genuine dismantling of our public services. I want to remind you, moreover, as an initial question, that our health is not only our medical services and our patients, but that it is much more, they are part of that public service, too, elements that may seem secondary but that are primal, such as cleaning or maintenance. I want to tell you today about the CHUO maintenance workers, some of them who accompany us in the rostrum and who have now been nothing but ninety-seven days off, ninety-seven days off, Counsellor; ninety-seven days off, ninety-seven days in distress, in fear of their future, and that this strike obeys, in addition, to an extreme situation, because it is not easy as a worker to make that decision. And the Junta, in addition, the Galician Union, is at the root of the problems that have led these workers to strike. So it should be part of the solution and not another problem. I want to ask you here today, please, to be involved in the resolution of this conflict, because I remind you that you were in 2014 when they assisted the integrated management of various non-helpful services of the CHUO by a macro contract, a 15-year-old ballad and more than 140 million euros for Ferrovial. The future will say if that was also part of that system of institutional corruption that the People's Party was now practicing wherever it is. I don't know if this is collected in the holy book of the words that we cannot say in this Parliament. What we do know is that macro-management, that macro-concession had results, some of them, because privatization, for example, already practically in its entirety, of the maintenance service, which so far was public and is now practically dismantled. And also a decrease in working conditions and the violation of workers' and workers' rights. And this is immoral, and besides, it's irresponsible, because you know how complicated and important industrial security is in a hospital. But today's picture is devastating, not even a minimum number of staff, personal shortage, often not covering the casualties with speed, besides Ferrovial is failing to comply with the collective Siderometal Convention, for example, that they work on weekends and that, in addition, they are not being given any more pay or rest. By taking an illustration, too, of the situation of these workers, they don't even have a decent resting place, and this is not isolated cases. Ferrovial too, we had the cleaning strike in CHUO itself, because, in short, the situation is that Ferrovial...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u259	...they're the slavers of the 21st century and you're being accomplices. That's why I ask them to be involved in the resolution of this conflict.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Presas, your time is up. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u261	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. In the Ourense area we've been doing an important remodeling. The last move was the opening of a new hospitalisation block under conditions, of course, much improved, of the best that is right now for any patient at the state level. And within that reorganization, of course, services have been extended and these facilities have been improved. On the basis that I believe we have excellent professionals in the area of maintenance, well for the company you decide, but also with a public part — which talked about dismantling, but there are also workers in the Galician Health Service, it is mixed — in all contracts between the Galego Health Service and the service adjudicate companies are satisfied with their obligation, with respect to the staff they use, to the fulfilment of the relevant provisions on labour law enforcement and the provisions in the collective agreement of the sector during the execution of the same contract. As established by the current labour and social legislation, the adjudicators, with regard to their staff, will maintain all the rights and obligations inherent in their status as employers, without in any case being able to claim by the so-called personal right in relation, in this case, to the Health Council. This means that if workers and their works councils find that there is some irregularity in the fulfilment of this convention or of the legislation in force, they must address the competent bodies to ensure workers' rights in the field of safety and health at work, because this breach, which is believed by a firm resolution of the competent authority, could be sanctioned by the Health Council, which in other cases would not have any power. But we must not forget that we are talking about employees of companies who have just won the public contests that the Health Council called. It's the adjudicate companies that must meet with the corresponding representatives of the workers, analyze their demands and negotiate collective agreements in each sector. The task of the Administration is to check the strict performance of contracts and not to interfere in negotiations between workers and their businesses, as they have repeatedly expressed both employers and trade union organisations, and as established in the applicable labour law. In the statement of your question, Your Honor, you don't understand the industrial security collection, it's about the maintenance service, which as it is called in the contract to EOXI has subscribed with Ferrovial services for carrying out various activities, not only maintenance, but also cleaning and other activities. Once again, I insist, from the Health Council we take the necessary steps to ensure that the services contracted under the conditions that are collected in recruitment jobs are met and, logically, we are vigilant, and of course we urge both the workers and the company to agree as soon as possible. It's not a situation for us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u262	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u263	...adequate and, of course, we will insist that these issues be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u264	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u265	By translating, that the Galician Council gives absolutely just as much as a concessionaire is failing to comply with labour regulations, it is violating the collective agreement; it is absolutely just as these workers who are listening to us from the rostrum are going to be 100 days off. Then go with the commitment of employment and quality of the Galician Union! The only positive thing I get from your intervention is that you seem to have finally recognized that you privatized a part, because you said there was a public part, so I must deduce that, at last, you assume that the other part, of which we are talking about now, is the private part. So I guess I also have to conclude that the operation is to privatize these kinds of services in order to get rid of the working conditions of these people. Because, in addition, I would like — and we asked for it in writing and you referred us to the joint amount — to tell us how much disaggregated Ferrovial is paid for the maintenance service when these workers are on strike. Because of course, here when there's a lot of profits for Ferrovial what there's a lot of losses for the working class, and I don't understand it. I find it unheard of that before this situation the solution of the Galician Council is to let things go and it will be settled, and that workers get their hands on the legal route — which, of course, they have already reported in the labour inspection — and so wait for things to be settled alone instead of having a little commitment. You say, too, that you don't understand industrial security. I'll give you an example. I don't know what you call it. Industrial safety is, for example, an intervention of electronic damage, something for which by labour security regulations there should be two workers at the moment. That is something, for example, that systematically fails in this concessionaire. In short, what we have is that once again it seems that the Galician Union is not willing to get involved. But we think it's a mistake and it's an irresponsibility, and we ask them to sit down too at the negotiating table. The negotiations that are taking place between workers and workers and between the company...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Timed out
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u267	...they're not working and they have a responsibility and they have to sit with them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u268	Thank you. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u269	Thank you very much, President. Madam Presas, I think you want to confuse and say here that you do defend the workers. We all defend the workers, indeed. But look, what happens, the difference between you and me, is that it comes here to establish demagogy... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u270	Please! I pray to the gentlemen — excuse me, Counsellor — to those who are our guests today, that there can't be demonstrations from the rostrum. There is a rule that is so established in this parliament. So I beg you because if you don't see me forced to force them to leave the Chamber. I think they warned you, too, you guys, didn't they? Whenever you want, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u271	We've come to defend the health service, the best health service, and you come to teach demagogy lessons. Look, when he says he doesn't care about us, he doesn't care about us, what happens is that we meet the regulations and we know each other's competences. And, of course, as I said in the first part of the question, we're here to look after health services and, of course, to urge the company and its workers to agree as soon as possible. But you also talk about privatization of services. I'm so glad you're talking to a BNG person who has municipalities that have been governed by mayors of the BNG for many years and have privatized services. I don't know if that is good privatization or bad privatization, of course, what the health service is clearly a service with a well-defined contract and we're going to try to control that, of course, the company will meet what it has to do. And, of course, within these obligations are all those who improve what the working climate is with the workers. And we're going to continue to defend it, but the right to strike is a fundamental right collected in Article 28.2 of the Spanish Constitution and, of course, we understand that it is a legitimate measure within the negotiation processes that workers are maintaining with the company for the improvement of their working conditions. Since the Directorate of Economic Resources of the Ourense Health Area they have held a meeting with employees of the company committee where they were able to transfer their claims to them and that they are in a negotiation process with the concessionary company, confident that both sides will arrive at their positions and that they can reach a satisfactory agreement for both of them. By the content of it, and as it moves us, it is understood that what is being negotiated is the improvement of working conditions, not that irregularities are occurring. There are no irregularities, but there is, of course, a request for improvement of those working conditions, and we are respectful, as it could not be otherwise. In any case, since the Directorate for Economic Resources of the Health Area, he has transferred to the workers who, in the face of any irregularities, have been transferred so as to notify the adjudicate company and take the appropriate measures. All companies must comply with the applicable labour rules, and in order to verify compliance with them there are the competent labour bodies. So, of course, we're going to continue to defend, as I said, the quality of health services in Ourense and in all areas of Galicia, and of course we're not going to look elsewhere, but we're going to have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u273	...in perfect watch all that can be done in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u274	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Government of Greece regarding the quality of care offered at the Hospital de Verín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u275	Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u276	Thank you, President. Counsellor, we have suffered a loss of healthcare quality in recent times, not the good will and effort of our professionals, but the poor management of our system. He knows that the legacy that the Rajoy Government leaves us is that Spain remains for the first time in thirty years out of the top ten public health posts all over the world, in that prestigious magazine that you and I share, which has a very deep worth, as is Lancet, because you have already said here, that Galicia is, according to the CIS barometer, the third worst in all Spain. So, both in Spain and Galicia, we have a loss of quality, which is actually going to be very difficult to recover, but which we must do now because you have stopped ruling in Spain, and soon when you stop ruling here. There is an added problem, which is comarcal health, health around the neighborhoods has a problem, that has to do with geography and that has to do with demography, and that has to do with, especially, with this aging, with the difficulty of communication, with the loss of services within the districts. We have to anchor services for anchoring population. In the example that brings us today from Verín, Verín is 50 minutes from Ourense, and I would like you to think, for example, how long it takes for public transport to reach a neighbor or neighbor from Verín to Ourense. There are several problems and growing demands that have been forgotten and ignored by his counseling, demands in terms of doctors. There was a growing demand for the loss of traumatology specialists, a pediatrician who retired and who had no replacement, for the loss of internal medicine professionals. There was a claim, which exists, of nurses who have to take care of a nurse or nurse for every thirty patients on some nights, which you know is insatiable. Cellars or pharmacy personnel that slow down the system and make it difficult, and make it all the more inefficient. Some system, such as Hado, good system, good measure and good idea, has been implemented, the problem is that it has been implanted with an old car of more than ten years that only works properly and not new staff has been implanted, but has come from another place. You take one place and devise one saint to put another. Well, I'm not talking to him about saints in health care, which you still have the priests and we don't share. And in the face of this forgetfulness there was a big demonstration in Verín, of those demonstrations that you say people go because they cheat on you and because they pay buses and sandwiches. But these thousands of people claimed that they need and demand a decent system for their attention. After that demonstration, with a shell head, and hiding what they previously denied, they tried to correct some measures and implement some improvements. Some, not all of them. What we're saying is, do you think it's necessary for neighbors to have to make that effort, that claim, that professionals have to keep that latent tension constantly so that they can be given something of the solution? Not even everything, anything of the solution? We believe that improvements are not enough, and that the procedures have not been decent. You use the system as if you were owners, and you force the citizenry to make those efforts to give him some improvement. We think that's not decent, do you think the system right now in Verin has a satisfactory level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u277	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u278	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that each one chooses the criteria that match, which he likes most, but look, by the way, at just one, that it is no doubt that he belongs to the right center parties, to represent what is the feeling of this bench. I remind you of the latest statistics of the Public Health Association, I think it was said there that Galicia was improving and that it was already, of course, far above governments that are chaired by the Socialist Party. Look, since the Health Council, we've been working to meet the needs of patients in the closest place to their residence or that they're solving those problems, and that's why we're strengthening the comarcal hospitals, improving their resolution capacity and the services they provide. At the Verin Hospital, all the specialties have been maintained since its opening in 1994, and we also have new consultations and tests of psychiatry, urology, digestive, endocrinology, neurology, medical oncology, rheumatology and cardiology, that is, these consultations and tests are already in Verin, do not need to go to the University Hospital Complex of Ourenses; therefore, since the year 2012 -- which began with the new form of integral management until the first half of 2017 -- more than 80,000 trips have been avoided to the local patients. Therefore, the quality of care offered at the Verín Hospital is equal to that of the other regional hospitals in Galicia, and we draw closer and closer to the patients every day. This is a quality care activity, integrated with both primary care and hospital care resources in the healthcare area, which continues to improve care outcomes and avoidance of displacements. The activity of the Verín Hospital during 2017 allowed for 2,542 surgical interventions, 2,849 revenues, 69,227 consultations and 13,372 emergencies, in addition to an optimal management of times for access to consultations and interventions, because as far as the average times of surgical waiting in December 2017 are concerned, we are talking about an average time of 32.5 days and no one expects more than three months. And in external consultations, the average waiting times are 42.5 days. In recent months, as you will know, measures have been taken and Law 1/2018, the Health Act, where it pointed out precisely the importance of the comarcas hospitals, and specifically the Hospital de Verín, which did not have a legal recognition. From this we have it as a district belonging to the health area of Ourense and therefore shielded the hospital of Verín for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u279	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. You talked to me about criteria, Counselor, the truth is that you argued here that Lancet was a global reference to health assessment, and today it doesn't give you the reason; so you prefer the criterion of other collectives. Look, you take it a lot to do more, you like the word the most, and there are things that are better than having one, for example criterion. If it was worth it to you first, you should use it now, Counselor. In any case, he also made me a history, a history that came just — right, and what a pity that time was over — until the time when the great demands in Verín began, and that there was this demonstration, which is about the question we are asking him today. I understand that you want to defend your management, it's noble, legitimate and absolutely valid, but you should understand that we want to ask you about issues that have happened recently; therefore, you should come to those issues. And on that, Counsellor, on comarcal health — and you quote here the reform of the Health Act — we proposed that there be some difficulties, especially in the light of the comarcas and — as I told you — the demographic problems Galicia has, the geographic problems it has in communication; we proposed that it regain the idea of the fourteen health areas, that each one of them could sustain on the basis of a catalogue of basic services, which you did not want or negotiate. And those areas are indispensable, Counselor. But look, I'm going to tell you a curiosity, and we don't even tell you, your own government gives us the reason. You consider the fourteen health areas, not you, but your government. Look, I have here the Public Transport Plan of Galicia in April 2018. This public transport is — obviously and cannot be otherwise — considering the need to take health areas into account, because public transport needs to be distributed, because it should be taken into account that there are some difficulties. Do you know how many sanitary areas this year's Public Transport Plan is under consideration? Fourteen, as we say. Either your Government believes more in what we propose, and not in what you believe, or your Government doesn't know how many health areas there are. I think you do know it, but I think your government doesn't believe it much. Counsellor, tell me what's going on, do you think it's decent to have months of demonstrations and concentration to give you a minimum improvement in health services to a place like Verín, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u281	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the question, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u282	Thank you very much. I don't know if you were referring to health areas or transportation areas, but I don't know, what I do know is that in Galicia, by a law recently passed by this Parliament and voted against for you, what there are fourteen districts, and all hospitals are shielded by their primary and socio-health care areas, and they are shielded by law, and they are in the fourteen districts, and then we have the health areas too, which encompass and coordinate all this. Because, precisely, one of the problems of the comarcas hospitals is that due to the lack of professionals at the level of all Spain — that is not a German theme — because we are talking precisely that there are no professionals to reach all the comarcas. What we're doing with this law, which establishes wider health areas, is that we can have services of total coverage in all comarcas, specialists who were unipersonal previously and now belong to much wider complex services and that, of course, there will not be the problem of a lack of coverage for a bass or a vacation, but we're going to have it that way. That's why I think the deficiencies that there might be are not that they change or do not change for a demonstration, we are with continuous change, with continuous improvement in health, and that's why we changed the law, and we said it was a change, not a radical change; we're not like you when a government comes to want to get rid of everything else. We've changed what we understand doesn't work and what should work. The health areas as envisaged at this time work much better, the districts will collaborate and shield all that is the health services of these comarcas, and of course also research, innovation and training are already part of a law, not like the previous one. Look, I was talking about Internal Medicine. At no time have the staff of this service been reduced, despite the fact that the activity of this service in recent years has been less, both in terms of income and consultation activity. Thus, total revenues between January and April since this year have decreased by 11.5% compared to 2017, and external consultations by 5.4%. In the Hospital de Verín, in addition, an operational reorganization was carried out following the start of the Hado, Hospitalization a Domicilio and Palliatives, which had previously worked Palliatives, and is now constituted as Hado-Palitatives, an improvement more dependent on that service. Quality assistance is guaranteed, since it consists of an optional specialist in Internal Medicine, with training and professional experience in Hado, besides a nurse. The total number of persons benefited and cared for in Hado in these first months, since 1 March, already with the fully constituted service, was fifteen patients, which is a great success given the few months. The endowment of material resources is adequate, including a moving vehicle, ten years I don't know if it'll be very old or very young, but that's what there is. And at the Summer Hospital we have two hospital rooms on the night shift, when we have the occupation of thirty beds, and the attendance number is two nurses per hospital unit, that is, four nurses besides three nursing assistants, complete! And just say that what you've been saying all these days, and in many other plenarys, the hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u283	Thank you, Counselor. I'm in touch with the situation. Let go, let go. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u284	So, the basic hospital is not the beds, but this technology platform of knowledge, which is the hospitals. Jordi Sevilla, former Minister of Government Zapatero...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u285	Thank you, Counselor. It's over, it's over, we've had a complex plenary today, no more complicated. That's it, that's it. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Most people in Galicia, on data from the Health Council on the results of the application of Decree 105/2017 of 28 September, so the system of guarantee of maximum time for access to public health benefits is regulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u286	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u287	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. On 10 November, decree 105/2017 of 28 September was published in the Official Journal of Galicia, which regulates the system of guarantee of maximum time for access to public health benefits. Law 12/2013 of 9 December 2013 on health insurance in Chapter II refers to maximum access times and system of guarantees. Thus, Article 5 provides that for procedures in clinical situations that are determined in their regulatory development, persons who require unemergency scheduled hospital health care will have guaranteed attention at a reduced maximum time than those provided for in the applicable legislation for the whole of the proceedings. Up to now one hundred and eighty days of state and Welsh regulations become a maximum of sixty for surgery and forty-five for external consultations and diagnostic and/or therapeutic tests, counted on natural days from the date of inclusion in the Patient Register in Waiting, created in the same Guarantees Act in Article 29. The law consolidates the severity of the processes as a response time management criterion. During the debate of this law, in this Parliament, Members and Members of this group had to listen to a whole series of falsehoods, which have been repeated on a constant basis, trying to deceive the Greeks and the Greeks, wanting to see a supposed privatization that had nothing to do with reality, as we have seen in some advances in data made public by you, Counsellor, your Director General and Sergas' own manager. He said the spokesperson for the BNG, today present in this Chamber: "Today we are going to attend here, in this House, to the approval by the People's Party, of what perhaps is one of the most transcendent laws of this legislation, because it is a law that will give legal coverage to the privatization of health in this country. A privatizing law that will increase inequalities." AGE's voicer at that time, now also voicing: "Sirs, today one step further towards the privatization of our public health, because today this bad law is going to be passed in this House, and because from today private health will be able to compete with the public, because we will have to dedicate to companies that speculate with our health much of our health budget." Or that voicer of the Socialist Party, Mrs. Cuña: "What is very clear to us is that we are before a law that marks PP, privatising and dangerous for the public system. Privatizer, because she wants to equate by law — the previous ladies told me to use the word — public health with the private sector. She's also dangerous, counsellor, because she makes differences between people, and also between the purest and the most classic, the difference between the rich and the poor." After a few months since the publication of this decree and the entry into force of it, Members would like to ask you: What data can the Council of Health of the Council of Galicia facilitate on the result of the fulfilment of the Decree of maximum waiting periods in access to public health benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u288	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u289	Good afternoon. The truth is that on January 10 this year — as you know — Decree 105/2017 of 28 September came into force, so the system of guarantee of maximum periods of access to public health benefits is regulated. This text complements the development of Law 12/2013, of 9 December, of guarantees of health benefits, and is added to the decrees regulating the right to second medical opinion and to the free choice of professionals and hospital center. And that also regulates the functioning of the Greek Register of pre-instructions. I mean, we're developing more rights for the citizen. Through this decree, the following maximum times are guaranteed. On the one hand, a maximum waiting period of 60 natural days for scheduled and non-emergency surgical interventions, in the case of cancer, severe pathology of heart valves, brain aneurysms, obstruction and stenosis of severe arteries, retinal detachment or hydrocephaly. A maximum waiting period of 45 natural days for the first scheduled and non-urgent hospital external consultations of rapid cancer pathways. And a maximum waiting period of 45 natural days for the first scheduled and non-urgent diagnostic and/or therapeutic tests related to rapid pathways of cancer. With this decree, since the Galician Health Service Council, we have acquired a new commitment to patients, as it passes from a global management of waiting times for priorities for all illnesses to an individual commitment by pathology; and pathologies not only oncological but also serious pathologies with vital commitment. The selection of this procedure is carried out taking into account the severity of the pathologies, the effectiveness and the opportunity of health care and the priority protocols contrasted with scientific societies. This decree selects malignant oncological pathologies, valves, arterial vascular pathologies, benign brain pathologies, and ophthalmological pathologies. As far as oncological diseases are concerned, the decree refers both to the eid of surgery — including neoplasias, neuroendocrine tumors and carcinomas — as well as to the first consultations and diagnostic and therapeutic tests collected on established rapid pathways. In addition, it is important to note that when, from the Galician Health Service, no attention can be given to the citizen at the maximum time set, he may choose to continue on the waiting list at the centre that corresponds to him or require — and there is the great change — the attention guaranteed in another accredited center of the autonomous community, either in a public centre of an integrated management structure, or, ultimately, in a concerted centre. Today, from January 10, 2018 to May 22, 2018, 1,198 surgeons of all these pathologies have been registered, and they have all been resolved in public centers of the Greek health system, Sergas. So I think we've won in commitment, won in rights with the citizens, and grounded what was said by the opposition that it was to privatize health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u290	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u291	Thank you, President. And thank you for the answer, Counselor. We thought in the majority group that it is now clear that opposition groups were not telling the truth when they criticized this law. I suppose the voices and groups will apologize to all those numbers of people you've told us right now that you've advanced your surgery and made it much shorter due to the development of this law and this decree. Besides, you just said -- you said before -- that all those surgeries were done in public hospitals. We're used to it, Counselor. Here we hear thousands and thousands of workers have disappeared, and it turns out that there are 1,500 more than there were in the year 2008, that budgets have been cut off, and budgets are higher in total and percentage. There are 72% more surgeons, we have the best waiting lists in the historical series, priority 1 is achieved in an average of 18 days. We've had the best assessment of Welsh health since 2002. There's someone who doesn't like to hear it, but it's much better, one point, and I peak more, than it was in the Bipartite years, for example. The Greek health system does more surgeons and tests than ever, and of course, it does not charge for consultations, nor does it charge for the cunqueiro Alvaro armchairs, nor do the doctors of the cunqueiro health system charge for raising up — as was said at any given time — nor did this Government shut down the comarcial hospitals. These are examples of the different fallacies we have heard from opposition groups in relation to Welsh health, Counsellor. But the Greeks are much smarter than some think, and in spite of campaigns, pamphlets, platforms, associations, demonstrations, etc., and in addition to multiple fallacies, they still trust the People's Party to manage their health. And another positive example of this health is the figures that you just made public today in this Chamber. For our part, there are no more questions. I don't know if you want to expand any more data in your second intervention. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u292	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close the question. Counsellor of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The advance in the recognition of rights is marked by the approval of the Law on Guarantees, of 9 December, of health benefits, which is intended to grant the necessary guarantees to users of the Galician public health system for the exercise of the rights of care within established time limits; the free choice of family doctor, pediatrician and nursing staff, as well as hospital center; the request for a second medical opinion and the formulation of previous instructions and information on rights, duties and services approved in the public health system. The results of all that is the development of this law, the Law of Guarantees, is, at first, the right to free choice of family doctor, pediatrician and nursing professional in primary care, as well as hospital or hospital complex. Because if we started on different dates each of these measures, until December 2017 282,636 applications were made, the most numerous being those of a family doctor, the change of a family doctor and nursing staff and primary care. Point 2 is also very important. The right to have a second medical opinion, especially in serious oncoholic procedures, where this second opinion makes future treatment more consistent. This guarantee applies to diseases — as I say — malignant neoplastics, inflammatory and degenerative neurologics, invalidating and confirming diagnoses of rare disease, having this consideration that pathology with danger of death or chronic disability and low prevalence, understood as less than 5 cases per 10,000 inhabitants. Since the entry into force of the standard, which was May 17, 2015, until December 2017, 1,071 applications have been estimated. Third. I'm right to express the previous instructions. This law also guarantees the right to demonstrate the patient's prior instructions, which will be taken into account by the health personnel in the framework established in the legislation. At this moment, until December 2017, we also have this record, 7,739 people. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an innovative health care, which investigates and forms great professionals. We have new rules. We want to make progress and a continuous improvement -- as I said at the beginning of my intervention -- and we try to change the rules that facilitate workers' rights, but especially patients, with this Law of Guarantees developed, with the Health Law, Act 1/2018, while the opposition is an immobilist position, which exactly votes against any change that can improve this situation. Of course, this last rule, which develops the Law of Guarantees and of Maximum Times, comes to make a much clearer and more individual prioritization for each person of the Galician Health Service, so that he can know at every moment how he can be cared for in the best possible way. Thank you, of course, for all the professionals in the Galego Health Service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u294	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u295	...that make this possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u296	Your time is up. Thank you. Mr. Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. of In Marea, about the reasons of the Government of Greece not to reinforce with staff made the teams of evaluation and guidance for disability to end the waiting list in the grades of disability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u297	Question by Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u298	49-year-old woman and 2 children, cancer diagnosis, absolute work disability; one year waiting for disability assessment. "I've been applying for you for a year. As the months went by, I called. They didn't ask me the name or number of my file. They told me that my papers would be in the stock and that they were still watching 2016. I have stage 4 cancer, which is the most serious. The official tells me that we have to stand by and wait for my turn to arrive; and I think, when will my turn be? when will I die?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This was said at the end of May this year. 83-year-old man. Seven months after applying for the degree of disability rating in Pontevedra, your child checks that not only is the rating not only but it may take several years, up to 3. Or a case last year in Poio. A child with severe disabilities, with an expired disability certificate, who was still in processing and his request for renewal. And, of course, as his mother said: "My daughter's disability doesn't officially consist, and I don't have to expose myself to fines by the parking card or be asking for favors." Or we can even see a certificate from a woman from the municipality of Ribadumia, who was asked to assess the degree of disability at the end of 2014, in December, and who arrived at the resolution on June 9, 2017. This was the situation, and this situation is still like this. Delays in the assessment of disability continue to go far beyond 3 months which, according to regulations, should not be overcome; especially with regard to the province of Pontevedra. And we're talking about thousands of people who are cases like the ones we just reported, I'm sure you know so many others. The delay in grading really slows down is access to different economic rights and benefits, from bonuses in the bill of light to squares in transport or parking lots, or scholarships. And it's true that the degree of disability is then recognized retroactively, but there are rights that are not recovered. For example, we are talking about scholarships for access to treatments for children with disabilities. In the case of families with difficulties, they do not have access to such treatments. And the time — however little it is — that children and children are out of access to treatment is a time that does not recover. As in the case of public employment squares convened in the disability coupon. There are rights and situations where retroactivity of recognition is not valid. It is true that this Parliament has already answered. All the opposition forces have brought here initiatives to increase disability assessment teams. They were naïve by the PP, first none of them, then the board finally recognized the problem. And first what he did was he put patches, like hiring from time to time the staff in accumulation of tasks, instead of hiring the equipment in a stable way. Or like the famous agreement with Sergas, which they should recognize as it was a real failure. Then, what Parliament did, after an agreement reached by the PSdG — that initiative was most fortunate — on April 11, 2018, was that it didn't take a month to get out of the trap.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u300	And the trick is, the teams that are going to be hired are temporary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u301	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vázquez Verao, this Government is in many cases grateful for Parliament's initiatives. Thank you because this Parliament has to respond to the needs of the Greeks and the needs of the Greeks. And we have no problem recognizing that there are a lot of things we have to keep working on and that we have to keep improving. That is why we unanimously agreed in this Parliament on 11 April on a set of measures to improve the assessment of disability. A unanimous agreement from all groups of this Parliament. I think that's the right direction. When there's a problem, the government has to recognize that there is this problem, and the different groups are looking for a solution that the Executive must meet later. Well, look, the Parliament's agreement is April 11th. The Council of Galicia agreed on the measures laid down to develop this agreement on 18 May, therefore, a month later. I appeared in the previous plenary session to say that all the measures agreed upon in Parliament, which were agreed upon by the Council of the Council of Galicia, were in progress. And today I can tell you that it is not that they are in progress, but that all these measures are working, which are extremely important impact measures in the field of disability. First, the creation of 14 new rating teams in Galicia: 6 for Pontevedra, 4 for Vigo and 1 new for La Coruña, 1 for Ferrol, 1 for Lugo and 1 for Ourense. These new assessment teams — we are not talking about, Mrs Vázquez Verao, of any trap, but of fulfilling the agreement we have reached in this Parliament — are initially contracted for a period of six months. I will read Parliament's agreement: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to increase the number of jobs of disability assessment teams in the autonomous community, with the aim of eliminating the waiting list before the end of November 2018 — that is, within six months — in both applications and reviews of disability assessment." So what this government is doing is doing with the deal. But, in any case, it is very clear to you and to this whole House that, regardless of that agreement, this government will not spare a single public euro not only to comply with the agreement, but above all to meet the deadlines of the Greeks and the deadlines of the Greeks. In this case, the files, on average, are under a year. We have to reduce that deadline to three months, and so on, with all the necessary public resources. So we're going to let the teams work, we'll evaluate it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u304	...and, of course, we will make the best decision, not just for this agreement, but to keep...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u305	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u306	...the established deadlines, which is our objective.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u307	Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u308	Our question is precisely how will guarantee the terms of the agreement, which in November eliminates the waiting list of these thousands of accumulated files, with a temporary contract, when it has already been shown that this didn't solve the problem, because we are facing a structural situation, especially in Pontevedra. If every year about five thousand files come in, and if teams are able to fully deliver 3,000 -- and I say full performance, because it's true that there's no regular coverage of casualties and permits -- it's obvious that a number of files are being accumulated. And we don't say they don't apply these measures. Those equipment and that temporary reinforcement is necessary. But it's just that the professionals at the EVO in Pontevedra are asking him to have at least two stable teams in Pontevedra to be able to meet this situation of structural delay. In addition, there is an added question: the evaluation of disability is not a mechanical procedure, it is a very complex procedure and a procedure that requires practical training. As long as these new teams are late for formation, they're going to finish their contract, they're going to be like this. Evaluation is not a mechanical issue, it requires training in practice, and it is also a complex process even at the administrative level, so if you are mobilizing professionals — especially women — of the EVO of Pontevedra, which today cannot be here, but are attentive to what you say here. So our question is very clear, don't you think that to end that waiting list, to comply with the law, ultimately, is it necessary to establish stable equipment? Because we're talking about a situation of structural collapse. We're talking about the fact that in that EVO in Pontevedra they're not even guaranteeing the deadlines for those most urgent cases, turning the Order of November 25, 2015, because we're talking about not even in urgent cases, such as the valuation of minors, older than 90 years, cases of access to employment, cases of gender violence, not even in those cases, you can't reduce the waiting list to less than a year. It's not true that the average is in a year. It's the professionals who are claiming a stable contract because temporary recruitment has already been tested. That is why we asked him: Will it be possible — end of November, Parliament's agreement — to comply with the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u310	...that by the end of November the pending files are solved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u311	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u312	...and that you can make the ratings in no more than three months?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u313	Thank you. Close this question, Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vázquez Verao, that one, of course, I want you to know and the whole House that is our goal. Our goal is to comply with Parliament's agreement. But our goal, above all, is that deadlines are met when we talk about something as sensitive as disability. So, make it clear that we're going to hire, we've already hired... tomorrow begins not the training period, which is already finished, but tomorrow the valuations of these 14 new teams begin. So, I think we're doing a record-breaking hiring of 51 new public workers on our teams -- a social recruitment of the most important in recent years. I would like to thank the General Secretariat of the Council, the General Directorate of the Council, all the territorial heads of all the teams, for we are actually fulfilling that mandate that we have of Parliament in two months. Look, you were talking about a case, about a person who has an absolute disability. That person, with the measures adopted at the Board of Trustees, wouldn't have to go through the evaluation teams. I find it inconceivable that a person who has recognized a permanent disability for Social Security has forced us to go through an assessment team. We, in that measurement package, do automatic recognition without going through any rating equipment. It's a package of measures that goes beyond hiring staff; it's an administrative simplification package. So that person you were talking about doesn't have to go through the review teams. Thousands of files won't have to go through evaluation teams, because we want them to do automatic recognition instead of evaluation teams because they have a right. And often the Administration, when it increases the regulations, what it does is to make access to the right more difficult. So there's a first package of measures, which is the increase in personnel. But there is a second package of measures — I ask for the joint work of all and also of the teams — that is simplification. Look, this is the old document to ask for disability. Many 80-year-olds with this document. [[The counsellor shows the document that was used earlier.]] This is the new document. Administrative simplification. [[The advisor displays the new document.]] Real administrative simplification! [[Applause]] Do you think it's normal for a person to be asked by the Social Policy Council for a medical report? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Does that sound normal? It won't be necessary today, because we have the automatic gateways to Janus. We do not request the general evaluation report from the header doctor because it is not necessary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We do not ask for the social report of the basic social worker...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u316	...because it's not necessary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u317	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u318	...if the council is incorporated into the single social history. So, all our commitment, really.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u319	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u320	We're going to measure the outcome of this policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u321	Thank you, Counselor, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u322	...administrative simplification. And most importantly, we won't escape...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-06-06-DSPG075.u323	Your time is up, please. Thank you. [[Applause]] Before suspending the full, I would like to convey to you important information, and it is that as summer and not everyone knows the importance of protecting themselves from the harmful effects of the sun, we are trying to make a day—it is very important, Mr Bará—in this Parliament, if it can be the next full, in which the Dermatology Service of the Hospitaller Complex of Santiago will come to warn both Members and Workers of both the Board of Auditors and... all of us, and that we know the importance of protection. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're going to make consultations so everyone can go there and view those lunar spots and those stains for those who can be harmful to the effect of the sun on them. What I'm going to ask is the collaboration of all of you, because you are all representatives of society, to transfer to society the message of the importance of protecting yourself against the harmful effects of the sun. It's not bad that Parliament does that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ends the session.
