ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified the in attendance of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. And we're on the agenda. Debates and votes on the limit of non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019, referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u2	The Council of Galicia, on 10 October 2018, agreed on the ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019, which is fixed at nine thousand and fifty million euros, which can be adjusted to vary the revenue of the financing system and finalist funds incorporating the draft budget law of the General Administration of the State, as well as the reduction of national accounting adjustments, where they do not affect the approved stability objective in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011, of 16 June, of budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, referred to this Chamber for adoption in conjunction with the Financial and Fiscal Strategy Report referred to in Article 11.2 of that Act. Document No. 38569, qualified and admitted the procedure for the Resolution of the Presidency of 11 October 2018, which was made known by the Bureau on 15 October 2018. Before the vote, the Government has a round of approximately fifteen minutes for its presentation and will then be granted a round for each of the parliamentary groups for a period of ten minutes. To present this dictation, the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today before Parliament to present the non-financial expenditure limit for 2019, approved last week by the Council of the Council of Galicia, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. With this, eight years in a row, the first self-contained executive to pass the bill, presenting the spending ceiling for the next year in the House. I would also like to stress that we are committed for maximum transparency in the preparation of annual accounts, since Galicia has a differential fact: in addition to approving the Executive's expenditure ceiling, it requests authorization from Parliament. Bringing the expenditure ceiling to the House is already part of the budgetary cycle and constitutes an act of normality, but unfortunately, on this occasion we cannot approve it within the usual deadlines, and we need to explain the reasons. The instability that brought the new central government without communicating some deliveries to the certain account in July — it lacked a month of VAT — and failing to comply with the Stability Act, prevented him from approving it at the end of July, as our wish was. However, this government has not been stopped. First, we claim what we legitimately deserve: the full VAT of 2017, as nearly two hundred million euros were missing in December. Then we met with the Minister of Fairy to express our rejection for not counting those two hundred million, and she undertook to find a solution. And even though we can't introduce it in July, we've been preparing the expenditure ceiling to present it when possible, with a goal: to present the budgets in time and shape for 2019. And we want to meet the deadlines because the Government's commitment is not to allow the instability brought by the Socialist Government to move to Galicia. We have always been a solvency, responsible and fulfilling government, and we want to remain a solvency, responsible and fulfilling government. We bring to the House this spending ceiling with three priorities: growth, services and people. And we bring him to the House at a time when Galicia continues to consolidate economic recovery and to grow above Spain. In fact, I would also like to mention the update of the macroeconomic framework for this exercise. As you will recall, in the current budget we anticipated a 2.5 percent increase in GDP, an estimate that we have now updated to 2.8 percent. Despite this improvement in three tenths, we want to be cautious, because if it is appropriate to achieve this increase in GDP planned for the best performance of the main economic indicators during the first half of the year, the uncertainty and instability that has affected Spain for a few months may also have an effect on the estimated growth. However, we believe that Galicia can grow this year by 2.8 percent — another year more than the estimated growth for the whole of Spain. In addition, in terms of employment, we plan to reduce the unemployment rate collected in the current budgets by one tenth, from 14.2 percent to 14.1 percent. Right now, in Galicia, we are consolidating a model of healthy growth. It continues to grow above the collection in the Strategic Plan, which foresees an average annual GDP advance of 2.5 percent, and we anticipate — as I have already told you — to close at 2.8 percent; we continue to create employment at a rate of between 17 thousand and 20 thousand new jobs per year — the last available figure in September indicates that the rise in contributions in the last year already exceeds twenty-one thousand six hundred; and it continues to beat its historical export records monthly. So, year by year, the roadmap we've drawn is almost three with our Strategic Plan. This good economic evolution that has been consolidated since 2015 allows Galicia to add four years with average growths above three percent. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the most obvious evidence that planning works. Three years ago — they will remember — we designed with Galicia's best experts the master lines to build among all Galicia we want by 2020. And, as I have said, one of the challenges that we have seen has been to increase steadily at an annual rate of about 2.5 percent; we are thus improving that rate. And the other big ambitious challenge that we proposed was to create between eighty thousand and 100,000 new jobs by 2020, and in the first three years, fifty-five thousand new jobs have already been generated. So we are in a position to meet and achieve this important number of new jobs. With this development, we expect a growth for 2019 of 2.5 percent of GDP — one more year over the estimated growth for Spain —. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just an estimate of this government, but that the Independent Authority of Tax Responsibility, known as Airef, on the one hand, takes advantage of the forecasts of this spending ceiling and, on the other hand, qualifies as prudent — something that is also, of course, characteristic of this government. Therefore, the macroeconomic scenario for Galicia, for this year and next, shows from the point of view of demand a balanced growth, based on the growth of domestic demand and a very good behavior of the external sector. From the point of view of supply, it foresees a strengthening of the industrial sector, with a more moderate increase in services and a recovery of construction. As for spending on final household consumption and non-profit institutions, this will grow above two percent in two years. The spending on final government consumption, although it will moderate its growth, will increase by about two percent in this biennium. Gross capital formation will continue to recover; this year we expect it to increase by 6.6 percent and the next by 3.4 percent. And the approach to external demand will be neutral in this exercise by the similar increase in exports and imports, where they keep sales outside with a high dynamism. As far as imports are concerned, they will increase significantly by the demand for goods in the industrial sector, which anticipate economic growth, and by 2019 both indicators will maintain a strong increase of 4.5 percent. The unemployment rate will fall this year — as I indicated — to 14.1 per cent, which will decrease by 1.6 points compared to 2017, and by 2019 will continue to decline to 12.7 per cent, and will continue to descend by 11.2 per cent by 2020 — on average — and by 9.9 per cent by 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, this trend to continue with this approach over the last five years will allow the 2020 unemployment rate to be set at the end of that year around ten percent, on-line we anticipated in the Strategic Plan. With these forecasts we bring to Parliament a ceiling for 2019, once again, realistic and prudent. A non-financial expenditure limit for the next year, which amounts to EUR 9 billion, 50 million, which is an increase of EUR 300, sixty-three million over this year, i.e. 3.8 percent more. And yet, real spending capacity will grow even more, because in 2019 interest in debt will be reduced again, thanks to the responsible management of this Greek government of debt, with the autonomy that has less increased since 2009, and also with proper restructuring of it. [[Applause]] As for non-financial revenues, those that approach the financing system, they account for almost 80 percent of the total. Let's see how they come up with: The financing system incorporates the integration of the special state section of the former autonomous oil tax system with effect from the first January 2019. The Ministry's communication incorporates this change, similar to a better increase in system resources, when we are faced with a simple change in the subscription of the same income, which was formerly owned by the Board and now comes from the funding system. That's why a total increase in system resources was announced by 2.4 percent, when income is deducted, which was already the autonomic health cent and now becomes the system's performance, the increase is reduced to 1.48 percent. As, moreover, the effectively satisfied settlement in 2018 was less than initially reported and budgeted at 87,5 million euros, the difference between the resources of the system communicated for 2019 and the 2018 budgets is only 0,8 percent. Therefore, the consolidation of macroeconomic variables does not reflect an increase in the resources of the autonomic financing system. Deliveries to the estimate funding system for 2019 increase by 4.7 percent compared to those entered in the current year, which is EUR 331.5 million. But the settlement to be included in 2019 corresponding to the payments of the financing system in 2017 decreases by EUR 222.1 million on entry in 2018; the result of non-neutralisation in the system of regulatory changes adopted by the General Government of the State, related to the management of the EVV. I'll try to explain: In July 2017 the new information supply system, known as the ISS applied to IVV, came into force, resulting in an income shift for this tax from 2017 to 2018. The AEAT itself points out in its December 2017 collection report that the implementation of the SII in the whole of 2017 was only counted as eleven months since the month of November, which was previously visited in the current year, is now due from January 2018. It also points to the State Tax Agency itself that the SII, together with the loss of income mentioned above, has stimulated returns, so monthly returns were anticipated to 2017 that without the said system would take place in 2018. AEAT figures the effect of both circumstances on an income transfer from 2017 to 2018 by 4 billion 50 million euros, of which nearly 200 would affect Galicia. After asking the appropriate authorities — before receiving the settlement data — to compensate for these effects, together with the President of the Board, we held a meeting in the Ministry of Trade last August. At that meeting, the minister undertook to compensate for the effect of the measure quantified by the Union in one hundred ninety-eight million euros. This is why the financial recipient collects a forecast of the advance compensation in Chapter IV of income, as a transfer, obviously not a finalist of the State. As for the finalist transfers of other administrations, basically from the state and European funds, they slightly increase their participation in five tenths of non-financial income, up to 11.6 percent. The state's final incomes grow by more than fifteen percent, with greater resources for employment policies, minimum dependency payments and the State Covenant against Gender Violence. As far as the Interterritorial Compensation Fund is concerned, it shows more attunation in its evolution, as it is well known, to a percentage of the spending on "New Work" that appears in the state's general budgets. With regard to the Community Strategic Framework 2014-2020, it is already being developed and regional operational programmes for the Structural Funds are being launched. We are therefore talking about the Feder, the ESF, the EAFRD, the FEMMP, the European Youth Initiative managed by the Autonomous Community, and we are also adding those devoted to cooperation, in particular the POCEP. The financial years that we have taken into account for the next financial year are those of an average financial year of the said operational programmes. The weight of European funds in financial revenues rises one point, to be placed in 2019 at seven percent. In relation to non-financial own resources, i.e. own taxes, prices, heritage income, these maintain their weight and account for nine percent of the non-financial income that we would budget. Its stable evolution depends to a large extent on the tax yielded, that is, on the tax on documented heritage transmissions and legal acts, linked, above all, to the evolution of real estate markets, and also on another large figure, as is the tax on successions and prayers. It continues to recover from the housing market, especially where the housing used is reached, which, after stabilized since the end of 2014, begins a moderate but continuous growth phase. Thus, in the mode of ITT, we will go up to EUR 200 million, and in the mode of documented legal acts, more linked to the new housing, we will reach about EUR 85.4 million, because we foresee a more moderate impact on the Greek market than is happening on the national market. By their band, succession taxes and donations continue to collect the important discounts that we have applied since 2016, and in what we estimate that we will finally achieve around €139.8 million. And as far as wealth tax is concerned, we highlight its consolidation in the collection by the effects of the incorporation of new bases of goods located abroad. In total, non-financial revenues amount to EUR 9 billion and EUR 6 million, to which EUR 60 million must be added, as a result of the 0.1 percent deficit, and which we add another EUR 20 and 5 million of what is called "national accounting adjustments". I mean, a roof of nine thousand eight hundred and fifty million euros, with those 300 sixty-three million euros ahead of them a few moments ago. As I've already said, real spending capacity will be greater because interest will be reduced again. And this is possible because we have achieved practical budgetary stability. We only anticipate a 0.1 percent deficit, which enables us to stabilize the level of our indebtedness and continue to decline — once again since 2016 — our debt/GDP ratio, reducing to one third the public deficit in one year, by going from 0.3 to 0.1, and virtually no longer dependent on debt. For this debt deficit control over these years is why we can present in this parliament a healthy expenditure ceiling, a spending ceiling that in four years has passed from having a debt percentage above five percent just representing 0.7 percent next year. In this way, in 2019 we will continue to reduce the deficit by one hundred twenty-one million euros, and we will move to that 0.1 percent GDP. Galicia is the Community that has increased its debt since 2009, and since 2016 we are lowering that debt ratio/GDP, which now places us when Galicia no longer owes itself to EUR 3 billion over the average of autonomous communities. With this spending ceiling, in 2019 we minimized the indebtedness resource. Over the past four years, our spending capacity has increased by one billion euros, with 300 and four million euros less debt. Therefore, in 2019 we will be chained up to five years of strong growth in Galicia, we will continue to grow hard, continue to lower unemployment, reach fiscal consolidation practice, and we will reduce the debt ratio/GDP. We will devote this greatest expenditure — as I said — to three priorities: growth, services and people, to consolidate a model of own growth in Galicia, a healthy growth — which we support — in the control of deficit and debt control, in the productive investment and in the agile payment of our commitments. A healthy growth that assumes that Galicia has less and less deficit, less debt, more investment and faster payment to our suppliers. Galicia has comparative advantages that we want to continue to take advantage of. We are the Community with greater stability in Spain, we are maintaining our financial autonomy to promote both the liquidity of our suppliers and our families. A growth that we make compatible with fiscal consolidation and minimizes debt dependence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u4	Thank you, Counselor. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u5	Good day to all and all. Counsellor, there's a definition of economist -- which I don't know if you know -- who comes to say that an economist is an expert who will be able to explain tomorrow why the things he predicted yesterday didn't happen today. I don't know if this is a valid definition for all economists; in any case, it defines perfectly the Government of Galician Union. A government that has promised us that with austerity, that is, by attaching its belt to citizenship, to workers and to workers, as well as to pensioners, this country would be in better condition to escape the economic crisis, but in reality that austerity was a scam. A scam that caused the crisis to be longer and deeper, that had been cut off more in public services, and that therefore caused unnecessary suffering to thousands of people in our country. And, in fact, it's a bit outrageous that you tell us about stability when in Galicia four out of every ten Greeks and Greeks cannot arrive at the end of the month, when during their governments they emigrated 200 sixty-seven thousand people — it's like the city of Coruña had disappeared — and I don't know if they care — Mr. Feijóo we already know that no — that twenty percent of a generation of new people has been lost. But it's because austerity hasn't made this country more and better jobs either, because we're seeing how, since they've been in government, they haven't been able to have the same unemployment rate as when they arrived at the Union; today's unemployment rate is higher than when Mr Feijóo arrived at the Galician Union. And besides, we're in a context where, supposedly with an economic recovery, the rate of activity is lower and the rate of employment is lower; that is, today we have fewer busy people, we have fewer jobs than before the crisis, and the workers and workers have not recovered their wage level. It's worrying that in this growth we can also see another hole that leaves austerity, which is one hundred and fifty thousand boys and girls less employed. And then you find it strange that there is a demographic problem in our country. Of course, as you do is to settle down in the post-truth, because I don't know, it's good at least a little realism. Don't I know if it seems to them that Abanca is going to oppose the Government of Galician Union? For in his last report on the economy of Galicia says: "Galice shows difficulties in achieving increases in the number of busy people of the same intensity as in the national set. Together with Castile and León and Asturias, Galicia occupies the last jobs in employment recovery". This is your healthy growth. Nor, Counselor, have you made any mention of the inequality, as from the point of view of gender is influencing it by the economic policy of its Government. Well, as you didn't, at least we're going to bring this debate to the House. And what they're causing their policies is that inequality increases. Look: one out of two contracts made to women in 2017 was part-time, and the pay gap, despite Mr Feijóo promised us that he would end it, what he did during his government was to grow, causing women to cover half five thousand five hundred euros today less than men. So we see how, in view of the fact that it is installed in the Government of the Union, the reality is that they have not been able to recover the lost job, which we now have more precariousness, that we have a country with immigration and that wages are lower, drowning many people, that they must of course make numbers and numbers and numbers in order to be able to pay their bills. But, of course, the problem is also in short, deteriorating public services, where we have fewer doctors, we have fewer teachers, we have less health personnel, or we have some waiting lists that grow in health care, and thousands of dependents who are entitled to attention that they are not receiving from the board or are going to receive with these budgets. So, Counsellor, you have played a good role as a disciple of the President of Posverty, but the fact is that the reality of this country is not so that we can believe that with your economic policy you will improve jobs, they will improve wages, they will improve public services. Finally, that we're going to have a Galician with more future. We have made it clear that what happens is not the fault of this country, it is the responsibility of a government that has no project or ideas, and that, in addition, believes that by applying the recipes that have already failed, we will have different results. And this is what we just checked out today in your intervention on this expenditure ceiling, which, by the way, all of us — and I think you too — will agree with me that they made it into a bureaucratic process. Because what had to be the first step towards the approval of budgets... finally, if at this point they haven't made the budgets, I suppose Thursday won't approve them at the board of directors. We're actually in a bureaucratic process. In any case, there are fundamental reasons why we cannot support this procedure: Firstly, because the spending ceiling is a corset that aims to limit the role of the public, which aims to limit public investment in the economy, following those neoliberal mantras. Secondly, because we question all the policy that was created during the crisis, what he did is to put the interests of the bank first and not the public interests. And we believe that the economy must be at the service of people, not people at the service of the economy. Thirdly, we cannot support this mechanism because we question the whole process of recentralisation which has also been created from a financial point of view. This model of how the spending ceiling is approved is an example of a manual: they tell us in Brussels and Madrid what is the spending capacity that our country can have. And in addition, it limits such important aspects when it comes to deciding how even the contracts we can make in our health care, our education or public services. And finally, we don't support this expenditure ceiling either because we disagree with the allocation of the deficit limits that have been approved and that you want to refer to. You agree with a breakdown where the autonomous communities are absolutely framed in that deficit capacity, which is mostly the central administration, and which in recent years has been further unbalanced in favour of the central administration. And what they're doing to constrain so much the spending capacity of autonomous administrations is clearly, in the end, cutting down on public services, which are the competences that basically has the Galician Union. I, in any case, also wanted to ask you today, Counselor, if you are truly satisfied with the role you have played in the Tax Policy Council. Are you satisfied with your role in fiscal policy? You were there — with a premeditated vote — to vote no, only and only because the People's Party in Madrid decided so, because Mr. Pablo Casado decided so. The result is that Galicia has achieved nothing, but if we see how there are other governments that have achieved things for their countries. The Valencian Government, for example, has achieved an extraordinary investment in negotiating the vote on that Tax Policy Council. And you weren't even able to defend that the Crown's debt had been forgiven. We see what their role is for us: they lead Galicia to political irrelevance, and this translates into discrimination and ill-treatment. First, it's happened to the PP government in the state, and now it's going to happen again to the Socialist Party Government. And, in fact, I'm not surprised that the People's Party comes here to say that they manage debt well and that they saved us three billion euros of debt, when what they did was triple the public debt of this country, and they left us an inheritance of nearly fifteen billion euros of debt. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a bit of realism and less of posverity. And one last reflection. This expenditure ceiling — although you didn't mean it in a very clear way in your speech, but if it appears collected in the report that they refer to Parliament — what it reveals is that we have an absolutely unfair and insufficient funding system with Galicia. In fact, according to the report, contributions from the financing system are only going to increase by 0.8 percent next year, although the State plans to raise revenues in the state by 5.7 percent. We are seeing a clear discrimination in that financing system, where the extraordinary resources that the state will achieve are not reverting to financing public services. And that's the fault of a financing system that, when Mr. Feijóo signed it, he knew it was going to be an unfair system, because it's increasingly insufficient to finance our public services. And, of course, this puts us on our eyes, again, the need for us to have a new financing model. We keep betting that the best option is to trust the country, to really have a galley farm that allows us to collect all taxes, because that would allow us to have more resources. In fact, in this context, the Basque Government will have, by its financing system, 3.5 percent more resources, while we didn't even raise one percent more autonomic funding. Of course, you'd rather defend PP's ideology than Galicia's interests. And this is about the financing model, and it's about another issue that is very current today. After Mr Feijóo told us that the Basque electric tariff does not exist, it turns out that Brussels authorizes the bill of light from the Basque industry. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Of course, there isn't... these are the nationalist miracles, are they? What are incredible are the centralist disasters of the People's Party. Yes, yes, a down payment of one hundred and twenty million on the rate of your companies. [[Applause]] But indeed, the People's Party prefers post-verity to reality. And today all the Greeks and Greeks had to have lunch with a news: that the Supreme demands the Government to light up in Galicia, and that we are going to be the one on the highest level as a result of the energy policy and the decisions of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u7	We, of course, demand that you get to work to avoid this "tariff" — responsibility at the very first moment of the People's Party with its complicity — because it's a real scandal that the Greeks and the Greeks are going to pay the fare of the state's most expensive light and that they penalize us for being producers. And I've already told you that we're going to bring the Greek electric tariff back to the debate because what can't be meddling with us and we have to say it rains. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u9	Good morning. Counsellor, it seems to me that transparency is a good principle. I think I should start by telling this camera that both in 2016 and 2017 there was a breach by Galicia of the spending rule. Today, in the document that the Government sends to Brussels, it collects that Galicia joins a wide range of autonomous communities that failed in 2017 and which must therefore present the corresponding Economic and Financial Plan. [[Applause]] Also, in advance of entering the debate, I'd like to tell you something about the instability of the central government. It's called central government instability in two things: First, it succeeded in lowering the deficit criteria that marked the European Commission and thus increasing the spending capacity of all administrations. And the central government also does something else, which is to give some of that increase of spending to the autonomous communities so they can develop social policies. And secondly, what the central government does is it's not to bind the advance at all to the debate of the state's general budget. Do you remember Mr. Montoro last December and January, when he conditioned his advances to the account that the general government's budgets were increasing? That's the difference between one government and another. That was normal and this is instability? [[Applause]] The truth is, it has to be a little more objective and realistic. I could repeat last year's intervention, almost point by point, in his arguments. I was tempted, but we're going into some specific issues. The fundamental debate is the same: what situation we see is Galicia, how we stand in relation to the European model and where we want to go. We aspire to go progressively closer to the models of countries that have a broader welfare state, do so efficiently not to burden citizens too much, and therefore go progressively also adjusting our tax system to look like these countries. And I think you're something else: you're also, surely, part of the European model, but from those countries that have a state of well-being with more holes, with more weaknesses and also with a less fair tax system. Those are the two basic models, and we have to decide between all of us where we want to take Galicia. And we want to take it to the first: we want to get closer to countries like Sweden or our neighbouring France, which is a model of reference in many respects. In that sense, we believe you lack ambition, lack project and lack determination. But let's go to more specific issues, one of the differences we have in relation to the economic cycle. The methodology that follows the report they present to this parliament today is an unquestionably contrasted, normal methodology -- that is, we don't have much to say about it. But it's a methodology that has two considerations: The first is that this recession we're leaving is also a usual recession, and it's not true. We are coming out of the great depression of the 21st century, of the great crisis of the 21st century. That's what explains that after five years of economic growth over two and a half, three percent, we still have two-digit unemployment and we're still far below the occupied population of the pre-crisis starting situation. If we hadn't, we would have fully recovered that situation, which is what happened, for example, in the United States some time ago, and it doesn't happen in the peripheral countries of Europe like ours. That means we should all be a little bit more prudent when we're in the loop. That is why the European Commission does something very sensible, that is to say, man! you are actually having a very clear consolidation of the debt, but you can earn another year in this trajectory in view of the unemployment situation that Spain has. And you're telling him not to think of this European Union, and that seems serious to us. We don't share that position, we don't share that position at all. It has been said before that the great divergence we have in relation to the Spanish economy, in addition to this, is that we are creating much less employment, much less employment than Spain in comparison. Since the crisis started, we've destroyed more jobs, and since the recovery started, we've created less. These happy employment accounts aren't as optimistic as they should, Counselor. What this report tells us next year is that you're going to create around fourteen thousand jobs — fourteen, fifteen thousand — next year, more or less; 1.4 percent increase — I think I remember your figures. Of course, quite less than the Spanish average according to all estimates, and of course far from those happy figures to create in four years around 100,000 jobs promised by Mr. President of the Board. They're far away from them: they needed twenty-five thousand and they're at 1.4 percent. It is true that at the same time we are making productivity, we are gaining competitiveness. It's true, that's very good! But that would be better if, next to that, we were able to push much more the productive base with more investments, with more productive projects, and we would create a consistent job with the objectives that we are considering. Things aren't going around, and they're telling us in this report that they won't go either by 2019, by 2020, or by 2021. [[Applause]] As much as you assume, you are telling society in this report that we will be on the order of the eleven thousand jobs created in 2021. And that's what appears on the papers. We would like it to be otherwise and believe it might be otherwise. We believe that things can be done better in that sense. Secondly, the expenditure rule. Let's see: I read the report in detail and I didn't appreciate a clear reference anywhere to compliance with the spending rule in 2019. I didn't see any reference that told me that the expected increase in computer revenues for the effects of the spending rule is this, and it's under the spending rule, which you know is at 2.7 percent, because it's on the Spanish average. There's nothing about this. I've calculated a sum of the undetailed figures in the report, and it seems to me that you're at 4.25% of the increase in computing revenue. And so they're pretty much above the cost rule. I don't care too much, but in any case it would be good to recognize it for the effects of this transparency of what they're bragging about. Why don't I worry too much? Because I'd like to change it. I think we should all be able to change the spending rule. No, you didn't like to change it, because when Montoro applied it, which was committed to maximum austerity, they didn't say anything. [[Murmurs.]] It is more: in 2012 we approved — because we voted in favour — a Stability Law for Galicia that incorporated, among other things, the possibility of a 0.25% margin on the deficit based on a productive investment that was to be assessed, and then you changed. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, they don't agree with that margin either. And to us, with that, we would arrive. It's a hundred and seventy-five million euros more in investment that they could mostly fund with those two tenths that they give up. And so in that case, we would have a greater approach to what we say is more ambition. Because with that you could push the R & D+i or you could make the roads of that MOVE Plan that are unable to carry out all these years. I think there could be a deal there. I propose that we change the spending rule and press for it to be done in the whole of the autonomous communities. By the way, in the United States, productive investments are out of computing expenditure — for having also a reference. Finally — that I have a little more than a minute left — I think it would be much better if the information were presented to us in a way that would better reflect what's going on. The monthlyity of the EVI is collected in an unexpressed manner — but I think it is — in the other non-financial resources that are in the economic-financial report when, if there is a positive solution to this, it will form part of the system of self-financing in one form or another. If we incorporate the spending rule there, it means that the resources of the autonomic financing system would grow up about four percent, while the other non-financial resources would grow up much less than it appears collected in the information. And I think that would be better, give us better information. And I don't care what they say about the finalist incomes; the finalist incomes may be or may not be, because, if they come more in the future, they're going to be incorporated and nothing happens. In any case, this collects that some advantage Government Sanchez has. There's more resources for dependence -- you know -- there's more resources for youth employment, there's more resources for gender-based violence -- well, that's all part of the budget pact that's going to start discussing these days in Congress, which is fine. [[Applause]] But I'm worried, especially — and I'm going to finish — what you tell us about your own taxes, because they say the following: we lower the taxes. Oh, but the collection's still coming up! And that has to do with two things: You have to see, on the one hand, that these types can be lowered with, but they increase the valuations of the properties on which these taxes are based, as a result of the review in 2012 and the result after the revision of the catastrophic value that has been applied by Montoro in these years. And as a result, citizens pay more, even if you lower them and increase their collection. I also, without a doubt — and we must admit — that there is more economic dynamism, and then the tax on capital transmissions and documented legal acts moves a little further. But there's another movement that affects most of the successions, and I'm concerned about something that doesn't pick it up more explicitly. When many successions are anticipated in life, we're cutting off the collection of the future. And so we're anticipating the gathering of the future, because it's now focusing on time something that will then be produced much more regularly. And by that way, in some ways, we are reducing the possibility that the tax base in the future will be as wide as now. And we're in a model that at least should be recognized and evaluated as such.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u11	In this sense — I should like to finish — we are going to vote against this expenditure ceiling with the same arguments as last year: for lack of ambition and because we, of course, are in a model that brings us closer to Europe and that allows us to solve the needs of citizens in a much clearer way. By the way, as in the budget agreement just signed and I hope you will have a happy end in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u12	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u13	Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, since En Marea we have defended the democratic architecture of spending, the social architecture of spending against the architecture of austerity. We believe that the first budgetary debate should not be this, it should be another. It should be a debate that begins by knowing what needs we have to meet according to our competences as a country, as if these needs are being quantified, that is, how many medicines we need for sick people, how much teachers, how many health personnel for our hospitals, how many dependent people we have to meet, how many researchers need at universities in our country... and, from there, to make a quantification of the cost of those rights, of those needs to satisfy; from there, to there, to seek funding seeking wealth where there is — because there is wealth, and it is recognised by the Committee of Galicia itself when it shows that we are in a historical GDP in our country. And finally, from there, with those bills made, determine the roof of expenditure, and not, therefore, start the house upside down. In front of a democratic architecture, in front of a social expenditure architecture, we are faced with the architecture of austerity, marked by a spending rule that does not aim to balance public accounts, but directly to reduce public spending; that is, an evolution of public spending more restrictive than the one required even to meet the deficit. This for us is only the current phase of adjustment, the current phase of cropping. If in the recession the figures fell in absolute numbers, they are now falling in relative terms. Budgets grow, but less than the economy does, so that the gap between GDP and what is devoted to redistributing income and wealth in our country continues to grow. We are therefore faced with a permanent and sustained waiver of social justice, in this case of fiscal justice, through the redistribution of income and wealth. It increases the production of wealth in the country, but it is not redistributed because there is no budgetary policy to allow it. And that's what the paper presented by the Galician Council, where it is recognized that GDP will reach sixty-six billion euros, the highest in our history. In nominal terms, the value of that wealth produced in our country has increased in recent years nine billion euros. However, public spending will be at most EUR 9 000 800 million. That is, with nine billion euros plus GDP, public spending is going to be six hundred sixty-one million euros less. What do we consider? Something that is obvious: the most necessary way to measure the social justice of budgets is to figure out which part of the national wealth is managed, in this case by the Union, for the provision of public goods and services. I mean, part of national wealth is redistribution with criteria of public interest. Ten years ago, when you arrived in the Government, it was 18.5 percent and now it is 14.9 percent; that is, in ten years, a 3.6 percent loss — or 3.6 percent — of resources that were previously intended to finance public services, social protection and investment. Did you pay for this evolution over these ten years? In our opinion, no. No, because this reduction in expenditure is accompanied by a failure to control the public deficit and hence the debt. Because since 2012 public debt has increased by 4 billion seventy million euros, that is, thirty-nine percent in the last five years. A disastrous development of the debt accompanied also by the failure to pay certain interest of the highest in the market, twice what could be done if we went to public financing of the debt, rather than to make financing in the private market. It was years when the winds of queues were wasted, that is, the good international environment, so now that growth, as you yourselves recognize, will no longer come from outside, but can only come from within. What will boost growth for the year 2019 will be essentially not exports, but wages, pensions and budgets of the Galician Union. Well, this shift of paradigm in economic growth is what gives all meaning to the agreement signed by the Confederal Group of En Marea with the Central Government, consisting of raising the minimum interprofessional wage to nine hundred euros to combat, now yes, labour poverty and inequality, and also ensuring that pensions maintain their purchasing power. [[Applause]] This agreement not only improves people's quality of life, but also becomes a key factor in economic development. Now, it is necessary that this be complemented by an expansive budget that makes in the same direction; that is to say, improving the well-being of citizenship by leaving behind cuts in public services and social protection and boosting the economy. To put it another way: leaving behind the austerity that you've been practicing in the last nine years. We don't have a state of excessive well-being, but poorly funded. Therefore, the budgetary strategy cannot continue to reduce public spending, but to advance in the convergence of expenditure and revenue with the European Union's average. We say on the European Union average because we are 5.4 points below the European Union average; we no longer mention the most developed countries in their state of well-being, but the European Union average. In this way, a path of progressive fiscal consolidation should bet on increasing income and not on further reducing expenditure; in both cases, with the aim of achieving real convergence with the European Union. This is also what makes the deal between the Confederal Group of En Tide and the Central Government, an absolute money order in taxation, looking for more income beyond where wealth is. So greater fiscal justice, redistribution of the tax burden, reducing the tax burden to people with less income and recording more to those who have the most. So, at the same time that we proposed and agreed to a reduction in VAT of certain basic products, we created new taxes that, for example, tax multinationals — in their majority of the United States — of the digital economy, which practically do not pay taxes in Spain, improves the contribution of large companies to corporate tax, and limits the tax scandal of the SICAV, which probably concerns you more than the average income and the most popular incomes of workers. On the other hand, in view of this situation, the Government of the People's Party in Galicia continues to insist on a path that we consider to be wrong, because if Parliament approves the proposed expenditure ceiling, taking into account the evolution of the IPC since 2009, the expenditure of the Union in real terms — I know you will surely come here to talk about numbers — planned for next year would be two billion euros less than ten years ago. The People's Party will say — you're saying it, even if it doesn't fit it — that in 2019 the spending ceiling will have only a slight increase below the expected GDP growth. [[Murmurs.]] But let's say everything: what does that mean? It means continuing on the path of divergence between the growth of national wealth and the commitment to public budget; therefore, a constant and sustained resignation in time to make fiscal justice, to make social justice. Why? Because the weight of the public is decreasing in relation to the wealth set. That means less commitment of all society to redistribute that income and that wealth. We need expenditure to increase sustainably and significantly over GDP growth. And it must be done as quickly as possible to recover lost time, especially to recover lost time in cuts, setting as a minimum goal to recover from cuts in the next five years, in five years! A goal that is also modest, because it would mean putting in 2025 the same level of expenditure as in 2009. He's been traveling for so many years to put us in a situation like we were nine years ago! In this case, the budget would have to increase four hundred million euros above the nominal GDP growth for this year. For this reason, in 2019 the budget would have to increase the double, practically, of what is currently foreseen for the Union of Galicia. Do not do so — which seems to be what is going to happen — is to accept as good the cuts in health, education, social protection, investment or R & D+i, and that all this is consolidated forever, which is chronicled in the structure of the Galician Union. Yes, we want and we have to overcome certain restrictions, including the spending rule, and we are willing to reach agreements to achieve it, as Mr Leicega also said. We don't know, well, we certainly do know what the popular response will be, but we, in any case, want to formulate this alternative. From In Marea we want to formulate different measures, apart from this, to overcome these limits set by the Council itself of Galicia on the ceiling of expenditure, which also affects the spending rule. The way to break the logic of austerity in its current phase must be based on two types of measures: one band, immediate measures and, another side, medium-term measures, but which must also be contemplated by the Council of Galicia within its political role in negotiating the state set. First of all — and most immediately — use the margins given by the new fiscal consolidation path by applying the deficit agreed on in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which would involve additional revenue, extra resources of EUR 100 and EUR 8 million. We do not hear in his intervention why the Union renounces this increase. You could explain it, if you want, the moment you go up later. We wonder if there are currently no social needs in Galicia that justify this increase in available resources. Is there no need for more health personnel, more R+D+i investment or better dependency attention? Secondly, to make a strict estimate of the advances on income from the system of self-financing, correcting the gap that happens on the board every year. A clumsy we fear that, repeatedly, it seems more like a trile government that traps to justify a lower budget. Thirdly, structuring public debt to reduce the burden of interest, as well as changing the tax policy of the Union, eliminating those tax reductions that benefit the most those who have the most. And finally — and, of course, as a closure measure — and it is key to the political level for our country, to achieve a model of self-financing that improves our country's fiscal adequacy and sovereignty. For all these considerations, and understanding that the project presented by the Galician Council is considerably different from the needs that our country has, En Marea will vote not on this proposal for a ceiling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u14	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u15	Well, we are facing an important debate. I thank, in general, the tone the spokespersons had, which focused on the important, which is the ceiling of expenditure, and not on other matters. Let's discuss a spending ceiling. And the first thing to highlight is that we are debating the expenditure ceiling is that this debate is an example of democratic normality and transparency. This is a contrast in our outline. I remembered in the debate of the state of Autonomy that only thirty percent of the Greek municipalities are able to present their budgets in time, i.e. to comply with the law, not to mention what is happening in the state. In the state — as we know — the current government directly violates the Stability Act because it does not put the cost ceiling for the second time to the vote within one month of its rejection of the first, and is trying to change the rules because they do not like it. This is an exercise of dubiousness that was democratic: changing the rules when they're not used to approve what one wants, modifying them through the back door. You're sending out some figures without approving the expenditure ceiling; in fact, we don't know what the expenditure ceiling is yet. The Vigilante is what we need 0.1 percent. And so as long as we have 0.1 percent, the logical thing is to respect the legally established deficit path. In addition, all of this is sent to Brussels without any political debate. I remember when we could say that submission to Brussels without public debate was an attack on democracy. And now they publish a budget where on the one hand the Government appears and, on the same level, the Confederal Group of Powers. No debate in Congress, no debate in the Senate on the expenditure ceiling that incorporates that deficit path. But, of course, as Mr Iglesias now rules along with Mr Sánchez, there is no problem with the democratic credibility of these figures. [[Applause]] All this reflects a lot of uncertainty at the economic and political level in the state. We don't know if those accounts will be approved, we don't know. There are different political groups whose vote is relevant for approval, and it's not, of course, made them support them. It depends on whether or not the Government intervenes in the Prosecutor's Office, for example — they are saying it publicly — or depending on the price, because, after all, it gives a right-wing budget that is left-wing — which was what the President of the PNV said yesterday; the case is the price that is paid to vote it. And there's some uncertainty in Madrid that doesn't seem to be commented, that's going to vote for the Tide. Because the Confederal Group of Podemos seems to support this budget, but the spokesperson for the Marea said in the last few days that the five members of the Marea will not support the budget unless they transfer us to AP-9, the other Greek agenda. [[Murmurs.]] So there's a lot of uncertainty, there's a violation of the law. And, in the face of all that, I think it must be highlighted that we are before a council, that of Fairy, and that of a government, that of the Board, that of the Board, that they bring a ceiling of expenditure, firstly, based on prudent forecasts; secondly, that allows a significant increase in the expenditure, while it only owes itself and does not rise to fiscal pressure; and thirdly, that it can do so by the good foundations of the Greek economy in general and of the public autonomy in particular. The spending ceiling is prudent: a 2.5 percent GDP increase, after correcting this year's forecast and going down to 2.8 percent — in line with what Madrid did — by the way, it dropped to 2.6 percent yesterday; a 2.5 percent growth forecast for 2019, two tenths — like this year — of the Government of Spain forecast; a resource increase on the spending ceiling of 300, sixty-three million euros, that is, of 3.8 percent; a forecast to reduce unemployment by 12.7 percent in 2019, with a target marked for the Strategic Plan to reduce unemployment between 80 thousand and 100 thousand people, that is to create these jobs — we take forty-one thousand and, therefore, the targets go into the foreseeable and what we counted — a reduction in the deficit to 0.1 percent and only sixty-nine million euros of recourse to debt. I thought they were going to congratulate us, because they are always telling us that the Government owes itself very much, however — as I shall say next — what we are asked for is greater debt. All of this without taxes and lowering the tax pressure, a tax pressure on which it was said today that the payment of future inheritances was being advanced. That means someone's thinking of raising taxes in the future. So today there's an announcement that might go further on the settlement of inheritance taxes. Employment, as a corollary, is reasonably good, although we all want more to be created. The last EPA tells us that the active population in Galicia recovers at 0.04 percent, which is less than that in Spain, which is 0.4 percent; the busy people grow at 2.56 percent, and it's good news that the occupation grows, although it's slightly below Spanish: 2.82%. And as a result of the evolution of the active population, the unemployed are decreasing in Galicia, according to EPA, in the last year 13.11 percent, which is much more than 10.84 percent that are reduced in Spain. These are the numbers that give us the key to employment, and there's no mystery about it. The Inem, by the way, at the last registered unemployment, tells us that unemployment is 9.64 percent in Galicia and the average of Spain is 6.09 percent on multi-year dates. Secondly, the increase in expenditure must be placed in its dimension. The continuity of the lines that allowed us to go through, ultimately, despite the fall of income at the previous stage, despite the fact that during these years we have been paying — which is always omitted from the opposition — the two billion euros of negative liquidations — that is, it has already absorbed the budget of eleven thousand seventy-one million euros from those that were in the budgets of the year 2008-2009, and that does not count it when they talk about public debt —, which, however, since 2015, the expenditure has increased by one billion euros — I insist — with significant tax reductions and a fiscal budget that is also significant. Today we again announce a rise in public spending, which can be around four hundred million euros, and at 300 sixty-three million euros we add to them the savings in debt interest. And Airef has just made it public that forecasts are reasonable and prudent, and he has not put the slightest objection to them. By the way, the Basque Country objected: it does not make the model of economic forecast public, and recommends that it make it public. It doesn't even tell us in the field of transparency anything else that the predictions of Union are prudent, and it doesn't object at least. All of this gives us good economic foundations, more balanced productive sectors, because the Greek economy doesn't rest on the real estate bubble. The industrial production index is increasing by 6.6 percent to August, the average of Spain is two percent. Exports have been beating marks for four years: they are growing to 9.9 percent; there are 400 new exporting companies and 80 percent are exposed to the EU, which protects us from the uncertainties of international markets. By the way, exports are very closely linked to the quality of government. There is a work that shows that governments that are less corrupt, that have better governance, that have more political stability and that have good regulation are able to favour exports in countries that have the same contour. We export 80 percent, we are from the communities we export the most, but obviously the scientific work in Galicia does not apply. This means that, in general terms, exports reflect a good institutional situation and, therefore, that the foundations of our economy are solid, such as those of the public economy. [[Applause]] The Autonomous Community where the debt has been reduced since 2009 was Galicia. When the crisis period began in 2009, we were in the middle of the autonomous communities, slightly above them; now we owe 18.6 percent of GDP, and the average is 24.7 percent. I mean, if we were on average we'd have three billion more debt, and if we just accepted the amendments that AGE presented us, we'd have one billion more. But fortunately, it wasn't. At the same time, as I said, we returned the inherited debt that was not accounted for in the public debt, a thousand seventy million of the negative liquidations, and now we are told that we have to owe ourselves more. That's the proposal they make to us, that we accept 0.3 percent of debt and that we owe the Union a little more. It's said that for social spending or investment, it's not necessary; we're going to suppose it's for investment, because if it's for current spending I suppose we'll all agree that it's bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. But do we meet the cost rule or do we not? Because if we go up to 0.3 percent we don't meet the cost rule. Today he was criticized here, because it seems that the Board does not recognize that the spending rule has been breached in just seven, eight or nine million euros on a total budget of about nine billion. So, do we buy it or don't we? I, at the entrance, would propose one thing, and it is that, until we change it, we comply with it. But even more: here we are saying that this is a neoliberal corset, when the spending rule allows it is a pact between European social democracy and the liberal and conservative movements to maintain the sustainability of the welfare state. Let's not forget that it's very easy to put a spending rule that says that when the times come well given, you have to keep spending according to what can be paid in the future, and that when we're in crisis you have to be indebted. Of course, when we were in crisis, we were in debt, but now we're in a stage of growth and we have to start making the state of well-being sustainable. So it's not a neoliberal rule, it's just the opposite: a rule that allows you to maintain the welfare state. We didn't make the mistakes of the past. Are we talking about spending rules? All right, but while there is, you have to keep it. If we accept a 0.3 percent deficit path, we don't do it. And while there are standards, I think it's good to fulfill them for everyone. In addition to having a good debt management, you pay the suppliers in 12.75 days. If Vigo's mayor is happy because he pays in 13.22 — it's the Council that pays the fastest of those who make the ministry public — he will understand that we too are reasonably happy, because we pay in less time, twenty days less than the average. We maintain the stability of public employment, we sign very important agreements on public salaries, fulfilling the word the president gave in this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u17	...to recover public salaries when the crisis passes. We are from the autonomous communities that are above average in social spending: we spend 2 000 400 euros per inhabitant, and Spain, on average, spends 2 000 cent. So we understand you can make noises and comments, but after that you have to vote today. What is put to the vote is three hundred sixty-three million euros more resources, less debt, moderate or low tax pressure, an economy that grows more than average, a reduction in unemployment and social benefits above the average of Spain, which is more than enough for us to vote favourably on the expenditure ceiling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u18	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Voted for 2019 on the limit of non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u19	At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2019, as referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June, on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. Voted on the limit of non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. The ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2019 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-10-16-DSPG086.u20	There's no more business. The session is up. Good morning.
