ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with agenda item 6, which corresponds to questions for the oral reply of the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the view of the Government of Galicia in relation to the judicial and institutional response, including that of the Galician Union, to the murder of 45 women in the last decade
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u3	Magdalena Moreira was murdered in Porriño by her partner, received three shots: one on her head and two on her back. Maria Judith Martins was beheaded by her husband in his home in the town of Coruña. Ana Belén Varela's husband took three shots behind her back in her house and in front of her children. They can't talk anymore and they need us to talk for them. As for the year, three women murdered; in the last decade, 45. And I ask you, Mr Feijóo, what would be the reply of the Board if instead of talking about women we spoke of 45 Members or footballers killed? I'm sure everything would get kicked up. [[Applause]] But, unfortunately, Manada isn't just five, there's a lot of herds: there's herds in justice, there's herds in politics, there's herds in institutions, there's also violence against women. That's why we have to raise our voice, we have to speak for them. We have to talk about them and report that what's going on is a feminicide. We have to speak for them, for those 55,000 women who have filed complaints of gender-based violence in recent years. We have to talk to report that every week there are three complaints in rape courts. And we have to speak for all the women who suffer from macho violence. And I'm telling him clearly: we felt hurt when his government boycotted 8M. We were assaulted when they voted not to devote 1 in 100 euros to fighting against gender-based violence. We were attacked when they cut off the aid to women victims of gender-based violence. And we were assaulted when they broke the Gender Violence Act and the agreements of this Parliament. Without political will and without more resources it will not be possible to move forward. We're talking about women's lives, our right to be free and to live without fear. And today we bring to this Parliament four proposals: First, allocate 100 million euros to fight against gender-based violence. Because, Mr. Feijóo, you have to lift this veto, we're talking about women's lives. Second, to comply with the law, starting with psychological assistance to women who suffer from gender-based violence in primary care. Because today 90% of the women who report don't receive any kind of psychological support. Third, to put in place a specific unit in the field of gender-based violence assigned to the Directorate-General for Justice. And room, more help for women. We propose that 30% increase in the benefits paid to women who are victims of gender-based violence. And that the threshold goes up so that we can receive these aid in 800 to 1,000 euros a month. It's just a matter of putting down their cuts. Mr. Feijóo, I warned you at the beginning of my intervention that there are many herds, that there are herds in justice, that there are herds in politics and that there are herds in institutions. Prove you're not part of any of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u5	Your Honor, when institutions, such as democratic governments or justice, are denigrated, sad things happen. Of course, I'm not going to participate in your speech because, in the end, the German Parliament tries to be a moderately serious House, even if there are some speakers who are not. Your Honor, the fact of spitting—now in the morning—a member of the Republican Left to a member of the Government is regrettable. And the fact that you're identifying me with a pack is still -- if it fits -- more lamentable. There you, Your Honor, there you and your group. We at 47-year-old Magdalena Moreira Alonso are defending her, her families and her memory, in the courts. The 57-year-old Maria Judete Martins Alves, we're also in court defending her cause. And Ana Belén Varela Ordonez, 50 years old, too. When you were in the government you never defended any woman or her family victims of masculine violence, none. All of us. That's why, Your Honor, there's a big difference between you and us. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, continue to deal frivolously with this matter; continue to think that democratic governments, even people, any kind of person, may think that you do not condemn a murder. It's regrettable, your morale is lamentable. Yes, Your Honor, I don't know you're here to insinuate but, of course, I don't accept such insinuations. Mrs. Pontón, you and your ethics. We've been working on the problems of macho violence for a long time. It is true that male violence is not a problem in the last decade, but the truth is that I am honored to be part of a group that was the first to approve the first Action Plan against Gender Violence — we are talking about the year 2002 — and the first Equality Law in Galicia — we are talking about the year 2004 — and the first network of local entities against gender violence — of the year 2012. And in 2013 this Government made the decision to always be a person in criminal proceedings in the event of death for male violence, in case the family is not against it. And it was this government in 2014 that created the first Galego Observatory of Gender Violence; and what started in 2014 the Center for the Recovery of Women Victims of Gender Violence. And it was this government that made the I work plan for women victims of male violence. And it was this Government that permanently opened the deadlines for requesting aid, regardless of whether it ended that period in the corresponding order. And it was this government, Your Honor, which is tripled the budget that the Bipartite devoted to male violence. So when you come here to teach us lessons from what? The biggest budgetary commitment that has been made in a budget of the autonomous community in 30 years of history against macho violence is what this Government approved. The greatest commitment to institutional cooperation and loyalty. [[Applause]] First we made a pact against male violence, then we took that pact to the state government, and there's a national pact against male violence. [[Applause]] Do you regret that agreement, Mrs. Pontón? Do you regret the agreement you signed with the People's Party, the Socialist Party and En Marea against the violence of the macho? Coordination with local administrations is there: 81 information centres for women; 199 municipalities affiliated to the Network against violence against men. What are we accused of, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u7	Look, Your Honor, I will not participate in this farce, there you are. If you try to fight partisans you won't find us. If what you're looking for is to work against male violence, against male terrorism, there, Mrs. Pontón, you'll find them. Yes, with much more measures, much more budgeted and more social sensibility than you practiced when you were in government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u8	Thank you, President. Replica. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u9	Mr Feijóo, it is curious that you are outraged by the complaint we have made in this Parliament and the clothes are not torn when in this country in recent years 45 women have died and every day 16 women have to go to the court to file complaints. And indeed, of course, there are orders in this system, or do we not see it in judicial judgments? Can't we see it when there are governments that boycott 8M? Can't we see it when there are politicians of the People's Party who dare claim that women are like laws, who are to violate them? Or don't we see him when he goes down and tries to tell us that nothing happens at all and that his government is already doing everything it needs? Look, there you are with what you want to say and with the ratings you want to make from the past. But the first time there was a law against gender-based violence in this country was due to the impulse of the two-party government, because its government said there was no need. The first time economic measures and resources were launched in budgets in a program to fight gender violence was with that two-party government. [[Applause]] And, look, what we're outraged at is that they're breaking this law and completely passing away from the very serious problems that continue to occur, so of course we have to say. This law says that women have the right to psychological care in primary care -- well this law -- they've been failing for 10 years, 90% of the women in this country who report don't have psychological support. Are you willing to comply with the law, yes or no? That's what you have to tell us, Mr. Feijóo. You come here and tell us it's enough with that increase in state resources. We say no, that the Greek Government has to make a greater effort, because there are women who suffer from violence every day and who need more resources, more support and that what there is is is absolutely insufficient. Of course, Mr. Feijóo, we have made four proposals here and I regret that it is your frivolity not even to be able to evaluate and implement some of these measures. By the way, they were part of the agreements we have signed in this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question. Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not only are we complying with the law but we are expanding the rights and ambition of the law itself. How can you talk about spending more resources — now it talks about 100 million — if when you rule you were exactly spending 2.8 million? And you stay so belligerent. I mean, with 10,500 million euros, you were devoted to macho violence 2.58; and we, with 9,9 billion, dedicated 14 million euros. And you just don't change. How can you tell me that we don't comply with the law when it turns out that the Plan of Accompaniment and Advice to Victims of Gender Violence are driving him for the first time in Galicia? How can you tell me that we don't have psychological attention when we have a psychological guard shift in collaboration with Galician Colleges of Psychology, activating a specialized and permanent psychological guard service for women, and for their minor children as well? How can you tell me that we don't comply with the law when we have the I Strategic Plan for Orphans Victims of Gender Violence and for the first time in Spain these orphans have a help, regardless of their families? How can you tell me, Your Honor, that we don't do it when we're encouraging companies to hire women victims of violence? Your Honor, there are 16 programs currently in force in the autonomous community. Of these 16 programs, the Bipartite had 2; the remaining 14 did not know them because they were proposed, committed, driven and executed by this Government. Yes, Your Honor, yes, yes. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo denies it with his head.]] Lessons, none, Mrs. Pontón. Like ethics lessons, none. Do you think that we, simply because we are the People's Party, have no sensitivity to women? Do you think most women who vote for the People's Party in Galicia are women who have no respect for their lives? But how can you say such questions without changing? No budgets, no programmes, no proposals can be compared with those currently in force, Mrs Pontón! No budget, no programme, and no proposal exceeds what we currently have. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, look, Your Honor, in your question he says, what would happen if the 45 women killed were politicians or footballers? Your Honor, it seems a lie to you that there are political women here. 37! [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] What's going on? What are you implying? Should the Members of this Parliament have any problem with violence that this Government would not react as if they were not Members? Are you implying this? Don't you even know there are women who play football, Mrs. Pontón? But what joke do you bring to Parliament today? [[Murmurs.]] What insinuations now brings to this Parliament today? [[Murmurs.]] On justice, Your Honor, it is regrettable that you, from your seat, surrounded by parliamentary immunity, come here to say that judges and magistrates have no conscience or ethics when they judge violence against men. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's unfortunate, Your Honor. We're in a state of law, and if there's any misconceptions, of course, yes, but I don't accept any proposals at all. Look, Your Honor, if you want to disagree about how to deal with this problem, I agree. Now, if you want to untie the commitment of Members of the People's Party to this problem, you think we're not going to follow it for a minute. More assumptions, more programs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u13	...and more social sensitivity now than ever. And all this is insufficient, because while there's a man who kills a woman, there's no justification, no political, no ethical or moral. And that's why, Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry that you're frivolizing and using a farm just to discuss and breed conflicts in a society like Galician that doesn't admit any murder...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u15	...anyone. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the policy of the Italian Government on the provision of health services and equipment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u17	Good morning. We speak today of health, and let me first of all remember Ernest Lluch, murdered 18 years ago, who is not only an example as a minister of health but also a tolerant and respectful politician of democracy. [[Applause]] We talk again about health and we do it in a social and professional context of discomfort, with a parliamentary context in which I believe we are losing opportunities. Public opinion perceives a health with difficulties. In the last health barometer, which you know well, more than 75% of the Greeks said that reforms were necessary in Sergas, of greater or lesser intensity. And the professionals are manifesting widely their malaise: the professionals of the CAP, who take a fall of strikes to combat the precariousness of material resources and organizational deficits; the CHUS emergencies, who claim something very similar, with their dismissed coordinator; there were strikes at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro; strikes are called by the Omega union; there are 061; in ambulances..., problems of management manifest in the health world. And what is the answer given to it from the main instrument of government that is budget?, what is the answer given to it? Well, we've had the budgetary debate these days. Health is not a priority for its government, it evolves below, its budget, what global budget or nominal GDP does, is below. And we see that there are programs, some of them as important for the future as in health research, which are going to drop their funds by 5%, a little more than 5%. This is the answer you've been given since Galician Union. Or they despise the additional 100 million euros — a little less — that we put in our amendment and that they ridiculed from the rostrum, as if it were of little relevance. As you would say, come on! But this is the answer they're giving you. We're also concerned about some specific decisions. They corrected the creation of the figure of pediatricians in the area, but they would probably have avoided that correction if they had processed by a normal way the necessary legislative modification. Primary care disappeared as an autonomous structure a few years ago. We know what its consequences are: progressive weight loss for what is the main gateway to the system, for attention to chronicity. I'll give you two data. In 2009 there were 9,610 primary care squares; in 2018, 8,361; 190 million euros less for primary care and 1,250 professionals less. And between 2018 and 2019, primary care professionals go down to 58, in a context of economic recovery. That's the priority given to this system door. And health research foundations work like precarious manufacturing machines. The lucky MIRs, when they finish their training, offer them a contract in absolutely precarious conditions to continue doing the same thing they were doing, that is, half-priced assistance functions. That's what health research foundations are for. We make an amendment so you can integrate this into Sergas and end that precarious manufacturing machine. And at Vigo Hospital, Mr Feijóo, you have an opportunity to review the decision you made at your own time and save 20 million euros each year, which would mean for the additional 500 Vigo health care area, ending with the remarkable care deficits in that area. I know it's often useless to ask, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u19	...I'm sure people are demanding answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u20	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u21	Indeed, Mr. Leicega, Mr. Ernest Lluch has a bust in the Galego Health Service, in the placement of which I had the honour of participating as President of the Board. Your Honor, since we've had the opportunity to speak in the last two weeks, there's been two news in the health care that I think is worth it. The team at Vigo Álvaro Hospital Cunqueiro of cardiology first implanted in Spain and for the fourth time in the world a tricuspid valve, manufactured as per the patient, without needing to open the chest. News, November 10th. Monday, November 14th. We make the Marine Hospital available 6,000 square meters of hospital surface, which means 33% increase the Marine Hospital. For what? To do hospitalization and surgical areas, and day hospitals, to do more than 33 cubicles of external consultations, to make digestive endoscopy rooms, a new area of ophthalmology... Not bad in fifteen days. For example, this patient who was treated in Vigo could only have this healthcare in two places in the world: Switzerland and Germany. And let's add: and in Vigo. And it's not bad about the Marine Hospital, Mr. Leicega, that, when there was money in Galicia -- you were spokesperson for your group -- no one remembered about the Marine Hospital, neither did you. That's why, Your Honor, there are two statements that are clear. First of all, today there are more resources, more services, more services and more health infrastructure than ever. And the second is that today there is more budget and more human resources in public health than ever before. I'm sorry you don't see it that way, it's because you either don't consult the budget or because you don't allow it in your question to accept it: 3,784 million euros was the initial budget of 2018. We are sprinkling the EUR 4 billion in the 2019 budget. Percentage of budgets: more than 41%. You talk about staff: 1,544 more people. Family doctors: 167 plus, 7%. Nursing staff: 583 more professionals, 6%. What are you talking about, Mr. Leicega? You talk to me about pediatricians. The map of pediatrician squares occupied by family doctors just came out: in Galicia, 12%; in most socialist communities, 25% and 30%. In other words, in Galicia there are many more pediatricians than in Andalusia, than in Extremadura, than in Castela-A Mancha, than in Madrid,... many more pediatricians occupying their place than in the autonomous socialist communities. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, never before had so much invested in health care, never before had there been so many health assumptions, never before had we had a staff as wide as now in health care, and never before had there been less expectations of surgery and external consultations than now. And never before, Your Honor, never before in public health had there been as many services, as many vaccines, as many treatments, as many diagnostic media and as many technology as now. That's why I don't know exactly what this is about. If it's about continuing to improve health, tell us about it. If it's all about saying that Greek public health is worse than ever, Mr. Leicega, that doesn't believe you or you. Mr. Leicega, speaking of the 2009 budget and not smiling is at least surprising.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u23	Knowing that they left 2,000 million euros unpaid — and we had to remind you of the Councillor of Fairy on Monday — that of those 2,000 million euros that stopped paying for the 2008-2009 budget — full of holes — we have already paid more than 1,100 million euros, at least one sarcasm. Mr. Leicega, celebrate with us that we have the best public health that Galicia has ever had, yes, I commit myself — we are with you — to continue to improve health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u24	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u25	I said yesterday that the problem is that you don't take your budgets seriously. Because all the figures I gave him from his staff are taken from the budget books. So, of course, from there, they don't take themselves seriously or even put those books in. I'm not surprised, because I'm often a novel, as I said yesterday, fantastic. [[Applause]] But look, poor health. I've already made his precautionary accounts from the IGE data, which say on his foot "taken directly from Sergas", "facilitated directly by Sergas." Now what I did was put it on a graph. 2011 — so I don't think it's 2009 — equal to 100. The percentage of potentials is 180 in the last published data, 180, with 2011 equal to 100. This is your management. The staff did, as you see, going down. That's your management, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. And precariousness can be solved, but you have to be ambitious, you have to create 10,000 squares in four years, you need 10,000. I'm going to tell you why: because you have to compensate for retirements; because you have to increase in 2,000 places necessary to meet the needs of a population that, although stable, is increasing in terms of age and therefore needs more health care. And because we need to transform the nearly 7,000 precarious staff that Sergas has today into a much more manageable figure. I propose in four years to reduce it to 1,000 a year. That's what we need 10,000 additional people for. But if it turns out that the health issue is going so well, why are you so allergic to allowing the investigation commission to work? He complained to his parliamentary spokesman that we wanted to open the health management channel. [[Applause]] That's what the investigation committees are for, to find out what's going on. To open in channel means to be able to really know what is going on in health care, for example in the Road CAP. And it's neither a problem nor the total number of appearances nor the balance between the People's Party and the opposition groups. That's what we had solved. It's just that you don't want those we propose to come. And as if in a trial the defense decides who will testify to the accusation, and that we cannot accept it. And that's your responsibility. [[Applause]] It's still time to order your group to accept the opposition proposal tomorrow and we can have a normal investigation commission. Because if it's about domesticating the opposition, you know you won't tell us. But the worst thing is, that's going to make there's more obscurantism about health, which is not good. Transparency is good because it allows you to remove dysfunctions, it allows you to remove problems. The precaution rate is excessive, the care deficits too. You're talking to me about 6,000 square meters from the Navy. How much additional staff will have the Marine Hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u27	...to use those 6,000 square meters? Zero, that's the problem, Mr. Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u28	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u29	Mr. Leicega, I'm surprised, because nothing happens to be serious, Mr. Leicega, if you're going to be very serious and this is just a plan...! I don't know who's asking you to do this kind of thing. But if you know perfectly well that the highest percentage of stability of Spanish health services has it in the Galician Health Service! If you know that the lowest percentage of temporality is in the Galician Health Service! If you know that we can't take out all the job offers we'd like because we had a law of budgets that filled the public job offer possibilities, the basic precept of state legislation! But, Mr. Leicega, what are we accused of? If you have the lowest number of pens in Spain? Well, look, tomorrow we take a public job offer just for the year 2018: 1,461 squares in the Galician Health Service. We have agreements with trade unions, ladies and gentlemen, public job offers and now it turns out that Mr. Leicega wants to replace trade unions in the defence of workers. [[Applause]] It's too bad she didn't go around Andalusia. They're on strike, Mr. Leicega, there they're on strike, all primary care. And, by the way, television is rolling, that's what you like to talk about on TV so much. You have two issues, television and health. Go on, insist, I don't feel bad. The opposition's proposals elect them as opposition. You talk about Vigo Hospital and make the big captain's numbers. The numbers of the great captain we're used to seeing them make the Socialist Party in the concessions and at the jobs that Audasa gives you, then we're used to it. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Your Honor, if you did what you did, for example, the Town Hall of Pontevedra, the BNG, give in to the plot, do the electrical attacks, do the supplies, the sanitation and the roads, we already had over 20 million euros. And you denied Vigo's public health water and salt, they just wouldn't let us do Vigo's public hospital because they couldn't stand us doing Spain's best public hospital, Your Honor. That's your contribution to Vigo Hospital. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this month, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia once again ratified the truth about the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, saying by judgment that this hospital is a hundred percent public. You told the lie, ladies and gentlemen, since you have Members who know nothing of law and who say that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has to learn from the economist Mr. Losada, it is surprising. [[Murmurs.]] But, finally, let's go on. [[Protests.]] Let's keep going, Mr. Leicega. [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, you in health told the biggest lie in thirty years of autonomy, 150,000 square meters of lie, which is the surface of Vigo's public hospital. But now it turns out they don't want to go back to reality, not even in Parliament. You have a secretary general who doesn't want to be in Parliament, who doesn't even come to the debate of the state of autonomy. Surprising! You have the President of the Parliament of Pontevedra, who simply none and refuses to report to the Greeks in this Parliament. And you leave the two research committees created by the opposition proposal, both of you. Surprising! The question in all this is not what Parliament is for, the question is: what is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of Galicia for? That's the question. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, there are two committees of inquiry in the Galician Parliament on a proposal from the opposition. On the two committees of inquiry, most of the interviewees are on a proposal from the opposition. In the Health Committee I myself asked to participate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u31	...and be on that health committee. Wouldn't it be impossible for this to happen in Vigo? A commission of inquiry in Vigo's plenary? [[Murmurs.]] Impossible, what does Vigo's mayor look like? Impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u33	May the opposition propose an investigation commission? Impossible. Look, Your Honor, in order not to give evidence to the Vigo Council, they're giving evidence to the entire Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, and to you, especially.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u35	Mr. Leicega, about health, lies and the Socialist Party of Galicia are synonymous. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u36	Thank you, President. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u37	Give a voice to Mr. Leicega's chair. [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u38	Yes, to simply compensate for something the additional time the president had.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u39	No, no, no, no. He had the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u40	No, no, but I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u41	He had the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u42	No, no, we have to read the proposals that the People's Party makes for the Health Research Commission, which is a documentation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u43	Thank you, that's it. No, that's not it! That debate ended...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u44	...that comes to the case for this Parliament, and you'll see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u45	No, no, this question is closed, please. It's not a matter of order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, this debate is already being held, Mr Leicega, this debate is being held. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it's done, Mr. Leicega. Thank you. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, this debate is over, it's over. Thank you, Mr. Leicega. It's over, it's over. That's not the point. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, about the policies that will be carried out by the Government of Greece to end the conditions of gender in economic inequality and guarantee women's reproductive rights
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u46	Good morning, Mr. President. I don't know if I'll pick up Mr. Leicega's sense and feeling with these words, but he just said that Mr. President of Galicia's Board that he volunteered to go to the Health Committee, but the spokesperson of the People's Party today said in the commission that they vetoed several names, including that of a relative of the person who died in the road CAP. And I wonder, do you think that with your witness can you supply the witness of the deceased's relative on the Road? If that's the case, we'll go back to the committee. [[Applause]] If you take this seriously, we will return to the committee; and if not, we will understand that it is an inescapable veto for the democratic control that we have to exercise on the action of government. Having said that, I explain the meaning of our question today. This week we know a report from the Adecco Foundation that highlighted that 81% of the victims of male violence are unemployed or work in the submerged economy. They're data of a survey of their own and, in addition, combined with official data of the General Council of the Judiciary. A study at European level also revealed that 6 out of 10 victims of violence were unemployed at the time of male violence. Data from both reports claiming a trend, and is that there is a link between the unemployment situation, work and social precariousness, and the situations of violence against women. Thus, 65% of the women surveyed show that they are unemployed, along with 16% who admit to performing some kind of occupation but without a contract or in conditions of absolute deprotection. According to this same report, on many occasions it is the violence itself to distance victims from the world of work because of the blockage of access to employment practiced by the aggressor himself, so that employment rises as a key resource for dealing with violence by constituting the only element that empowers women cross-borderly by increasing their autonomy, independence and self-esteem. Unemployment is thus becoming one of the main brakes for women to step in and report. In fact, 71% of women highlight unemployment and precarious situations as the main brakes to report. In the face of this situation, the Galician Union, we understand from En Marea, should act already in the face of the gender gap in Galician wages within the framework of an urgent policy to increase Greek wages, which are the lowest in the state. Only one figure: the difference between women and men is more than 5,000 euros per year, which means 29%. A pay gap that, in addition, as you can see, has decreased during the crisis. Not because women paid more, but because men, who were the ones most, went to unemployment. As soon as the job has grown again after the recession, it's the men who come back to work more and those who charge more. Therefore, the pay gap increases. That's why we need policies that end this pay gap and gender gap in our country. So, as the relationship between unemployment and women's precariousness and violence is becoming clearer and clearer, with data that reveal a high job and social precariousness of women in Galicia, the question we need to ask ourselves and we want to move on is: how does the Galician Union intervene to move forward towards gender equality? And we answered the question by looking at the 2019 budgets: with incantation, reducing the budgets. Look, in the program entitled "Supporting the reconciliation of working and personal life and other social protection services" spending in 2019 is going to be 69% less than there was a decade ago, going from 5.1 million to 1.6 million. Another program, called Action for Equality, Protection and Advancement of Women, will fall by 76% over a decade ago, which means a drop of 23 million euros. There is only one programme that is increasing — because it has to be said everything — which is the protection and support of women who suffer from gender violence, which reaches the 14 million euros compared to the 3 million euros of the previous decade. There's a global conclusion. Yeah, because we're acknowledging all the data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u48	...all the data. I'm done. The expenditure on women's programmes has overall grown from EUR 39 million a decade ago to EUR 23 million in the coming 2019 budgets. It's a fall, in this case, of 41%. The question is clear: do you consider that this budget fraud is enough to end economic inequality between women and men?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u49	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u50	Thank you very much. All right, Mr. Villares, let's talk about data. Indeed, we agree that the biggest cause of economic inequality is the lack of employment, no doubt. And that's why I think it's worth reminding you of how jobs are evolving in Galicia: 23,294 affiliates more than a year ago and nearly 17,000 unemployed less than a year ago. That's how the job is evolving. But what matters here is female employment. And, in the case of women, today in Galicia there have been 11,353 more members of Social Security than a year ago and 7,600 women stopped less than a year ago. That's the data. And that's why, as you now seem to be interested in the data -- I've always been interested in it -- we have to tell you that the rate of unemployment in Galicia is 2.8% less than in Spain as a whole -- female unemployment rate. And it has to be said that Galicia is the second autonomous community with the highest percentage of women with full-time, full-time work from Spain, the second largest community. And it must be remembered that the rate of women with indefinite contracts in Galicia exceeds the average of Spain at more than two points. Let's go. In affiliations, today there are more women affiliated to Social Security than they were in 2009; and, in unemployment, today there are fewer female unemployment than in 2009. So in terms of employment, we're going a lot better than the average of Spain and a lot better than in the union we found in 2009. That's the data, Mr. Villares. Since you seem to be looking at the data now, this is the data. But of course, in the area of inequality and in the area of violence against women, and in the area of women's opportunities, there is much to do with conciliations and conciliation programmes. Look, the conciliatory bond, the caring bonus, and the children's houses didn't exist with the Bipartite. Just don't even know what they were, they didn't exist. Children's schools in industrial polygons did not exist with the Bipartite. Oh, they existed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right! And the first Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan was approved by this Government. Look, Your Honor, let's take a look. In good conciliation, today there are 4,400 beneficiary families; in good care — in Bipartite, zero — there are 400 beneficiary families; in children's homes — in Bipartite, zero — there are 61 municipalities; in children's schools, there were 12,000 and now more than 24,500. The best coverage rate for children in the European Union is 33%; in Galicia, 42.6%. Mr. Leicega, let's continue... sorry, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] Is the rate of poverty doubled? The answer is yes. We are the second autonomous community with the lowest poverty rate since 2008. Is the number of homes hard to reach by the end of the month? Yes, we have the lowest statistic in the historical series. Now, if you tell me, are you satisfied with this situation? The answer is, no way. But if you want to talk about data, and you want to talk about data, and you want to talk about Galicia to yourself, about Galicia to the rest of Spain, then you have to say, Mr. Villares, that you should be reasonably satisfied, because we're better than in 2009 and we're better than the average of Spain. About the budget, Mr. Villares, don't be fooled. What the Bipartite was doing was adding up the budgets, the conciliations and what he spent on early childhood schools. That's why I gave him that much. What the Bipartite used to spend was 2.6 million euros. And what we spend is 14 million euros, less money than the Bipartite. Your Honor, less female unemployment, more female social security membership...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u52	...and better situation of women's employment in Galicia today than in 2009 and in the middle of Spain. That's the data, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u54	Darling, it could give the feeling, listening to you, that it's all done, or almost all done. I asked you a specific question that you left unanswered, which was about budget policies to reduce the wage gap between women and men. I'll give you the data. It won't be forgotten about you. In Galicia, women earn an average of €15,730 annually, while men earn €20,243. That difference is almost 29% gender gap, gender pay gap between women and men. You left without answering this question. And you left without answering your policies to end this crack. Or does it feel good to you that this crack exists and that it has grown since 2014? You'll have to explain that. Look, just as the data we give them isn't worth it, I'm going to take the data that the rallying collectives of the 8M feminist strike in Galicia, who pulled out the largest number of women — men, but women — to the streets in our country's democratic history, and explain the reasons why they came out. They came out for three main reasons. First of all, by certain budget cuts in everything related to the promotion of equality, with an overall reduction of more than 300 per cent in programmes aimed at actions for equality, protection and promotion of women, with a reduction to half of the aid for children under 3 years of age, and by the paralysis of the German Women's Employment Plan, envisaged in 2007; by cuts in services; by the disappearance of the second German Plan for Social Inclusion, of the Entendo Programme — which gave legal, medical and psychological response to the LGTBI collective — by the disappearance of the Pre-Scholar programme at home, by the dismantling of the Querote centres, by the cancellation of the post of the Kangaroos service, and by the rise of the rates of daycare and school luncheons. As well as the withdrawal of the budget for the Gypsy Development Plan, which taught many children in the community. In case this was little, the complaint was also extended to the restrictions of women's health services. They abandoned women's health care plans and regular xinecologic consultation, eliminating prevention. Especially questionable, because of their conservative and reactionary bias, are some of their maternity measures, which have treated and treated women as if they had no ability to decide about their own lives, denying them the freedom that they do not deny to men. It's the case of the comprehensive plan to support pregnant women, an excuse to fund religious conservative entities. Or the family support plans that women miss, as if they didn't have the ability to decide. These concerns are not in Marea, they are the concerns of an entire society that has gone out into the street — it's over. That's why we are concerned, for this and also for the conservative and paternal drift, and even patriarchal, of the leader of his party, Pablo Casado, who recently announced his willingness to repeal the Abortion Act of 2010, a law that has increased legal certainty, the level of sexual and emotional education, which has increased the free range of women's decisions about their own body and the recognition of a series of health, physical and psychological guarantees to adopt a fully free and without coercion decision — by causing a decrease in the number of abortions. Married people want, in our opinion, to send women to a cave, send them to the cave of history, taking away their right to decide freely on their own body, imposing rosary upon reason, and criminally persecuting women for making decisions that only correspond to them. So the question in this area is clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u55	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u56	Do you share this return to the cave that you propose to the women Pablo Casado? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u57	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Reply by the President of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u58	I just can't believe it. After listening, I had to see exactly what the question was going to be. But there you are! [[Laughter]] Look, let me read this paragraph, this smart paragraph: "The wage gap is not explained both by the pay gap in the same positions, but by the strong segregation of women in the labour market. They work in worse paid sectors, and they evolve at a lower rate than they do to better paid categories of work." Does this approach sound good or not? I understand that you won't answer it until December, but will you be okay or not? [[Murmurs.]] It's Podemos' proposal, Mr. Villares, I literally read. Do you agree with this then? So, if you agree with this, maybe you'll be better off in your internal struggle. And if you don't agree with this, you just don't mean it. I agree with this reflection of Podemos, indeed. But to hear here that a pregnancy care plan is a wink to religious themes is, at least, surprising; that is to say, caring for pregnant women is an ideological issue. Caring for a pregnant woman who's going to have a baby is an ideological issue from the People's Party cave. I mean, gynecologists and pediatricians who look after pregnant women are all ideological Taliban, and what we have to do is not take care of pregnant women. But if that's an ideological matter! Making a screening of cervix cancer, is that also an ideological issue? [[Murmurs.]] Avoiding thousands of deaths of xinecologic cancer is an ideological issue, according to Mr. Villares. But what country you live in! What respect do women have? And what respect do healthcare professionals have, what is their only goal is to look after women? [[Applause]] But how can you say such questions, Your Honor! How can you talk here that the Pregnancy Care Plan is an ideological matter of the Galician People's Party! But if that goes against it no longer from a minimal ethical approach, it goes against natural right! But how is it possible, Mr. Villares, that you do not rectify at the end of this intervention and ask for that reference to be removed from the Journal of Sessions? We're going to keep taking care of pregnant women in Galicia with all the available resources, and we're going to continue screening in xinecotoxic cancer, because we're avoiding thousands of deaths. Mr. Villares, you are in the Journal of Sessions all the considerations that you make from the ideological point of view in relation to pregnancy, in relation to the woman and in relation to the right to life that a child or child has, and of course a mother to be when she asks and not when you send her. So far we could get here in this planning! [[Applause]] Look, I don't like talking. In the expansion of parental and maternity leave we are the first autonomous community in Spain; in the expansion of day-to-day reduction aid, the first autonomous community in Spain; in the expansion of support for conciliation in the municipalities, 36% more budget. About the expansion of the budget for children's schools, when we're funding for children's schools, aren't we doing what's to be done with women and parents? Don't you? Look, in the year 2019, nothing more and nothing less than 3 million euros; the child's check, 28.5 million euros. The "welcome card" did not exist in times of economic kindness; and the EUR 100 per 12 months for the first child — and even reaching the second and third year — did not exist. And there's no more progressive government with women and with employment reconciliation than the Government. None, Mr. Villares, none! [[Applause]] That's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you are now talking to me about conciliation policies. Welcome to conciliation policies! Look, the boys, 46,000 guys in Galicia, have a free shipping card. No mayor of the Tide offers free transport to young people in the cities where they rule. Bonuses to large families in long-distance metropolitan transport facilitates employment reconciliation to marriages that have children. As for maternity support in Sergas, look, Your Honor, it's the first time a health service, when a pregnant woman is down, pays the guards and shifts to those who were before as a doctor or as a nurse, no health service, and now yes! And this is the first time in the public job offer, and in the transfer contests, surpluses and daily reductions are counted as services. Mr. Villares, if you'd like to add, please. But to say the barbarities that you said about the health pregnancy plan is unworthy of a deputy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now continuing with point 4 of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions that must develop the Galician Union to improve primary care in the Galego Health Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u60	To this motion no amendments were tabled, and to make the proposal no law, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u61	Thank you, President. Before we start the debate, so we just watched and listened, I think it's appropriate to make a reading of a document. Mr. President literally said, "The opposition proposals choose them to oppose." And I want to read the proposal of the People's Party's work plan in the committee of inquiry: "Carmen López, Abelardo Sánchez, Laura Quintas — representative of the Board of Auditors—, Beatriz González, Juan Gestal, Enrique Castellón, Serafín Romero, Rafael Matesanz, Victor Manuel López, Rafael López, José Manuel Olivares, Sandra Vidal, Rosendo Bugarín, Antonio Martínez Calvo, Sergio Vázquez, Juan Turnes, Manuel Delgado, Fernando Jorge Mora, Felipe Calle, Manuel Bernárdez, Jorge Abaal, Antonio Fernández Campa, Valeriano Martínez, Jes Vázquez Almuín, Alberto Núñez Feijóo." That is the People's Party's proposal for the commission of inquiry. I remember that the president has just said that the opposition proposals choose them to oppose them. I'm going to read the approved work plan — and I don't need to change the document because it's exactly the same — STLS not supported by server: [[Applause]] "Carmen López, Abelardo Sánchez, Laura Quintas — representative of the Board of Auditors—, Beatriz González, Juan Gestal, Enrique Castellón, Serafín Romero, Rafael Matesanz, Victor Manuel López, Rafael López, José Manuel Olivares, Sandra Vidal, Rosendo Bugarín, Antonio Martínez Calvo, Sergio Vázquez, Juan Turnes, Manuel Delgado, Fernando Jorge Mora, Felipe Calle, Manuel Bernárdez, Jorge Abaal, Antonio Fernández Campa, Valeriano Martínez, Jes Vázquez Almuín, Alberto Núñez Feijóo." And I remember again that the president said, "The opposition proposals choose them to oppose." And it's loudly a lie. Mr. Núñez Feijóo is a liar. And the only thing I should do, and appeal to this... calm down, Mr. Pazos, you're like the Gabriel Rufian of the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The only thing the president has to do is make his statement true. If the opposition proposals choose to oppose them, we will agree. The other option is that the opposition's proposals choose them from the Popular Group, and that's unacceptable in any parliamentary system. So what happens in the investigation commission is simply that the People's Party is covering up someone. By the way, probably because Mr Feijóo lied in this Parliament when he said things, for example, about the Road CAP, like there was a call made by doctors... you'll have to know who calls those doctors, who quotes them, how they are done, and whether it's true what they said. [[Applause]] Probably not, and that's why he's covering for someone. It's true that sometimes too, as they said in El Padrino, you have to be careful about the family. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today we are talking about health and primary care. The truth is, the interventions that have been made here by the president are a little... such. Just one contribution, if I may: if Vigo's hospital is fully public, who are we paying 70 million euros a year of cannon? To whom? To the doctors? [[Murmurs.]] No, the doctors, no, who go for chapter I, staff. Who are we paying a 70 million euros a year for a hospital, which is supposed to be public? [[Applause]] That's right, he's got private CIF and he's charging 70 million euros a year for all the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Strong murmurers.]] Who are we paying 70 million euros a year? To whom? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u62	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u63	Because there are some budgets that say we're paying 70 million euros a year to someone who turns out it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u64	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u65	So can you explain to me who we pay the cannon if the hospital's public? And can you explain who the CIF is? Because, if it's public, the CIF will be that of the Board, which is not. [[Strong murmurers.]] By the way, one of the people we proposed to come was the dealership's representative. You can't come to that commission either, because the PP says there are people who can't talk. But they must not want to hear that they tell us reality. Anyway...! We have a debate on primary attention, which is not of course a minor debate. From our point of view there is a starting point of consensus, of great consensus, among all parliamentary groups. Yes, there's a consensus, and we disagree. It's also good at times to find the point of consensus where we disagree. The problem in which we disagree is that, as has just been seen, given the intervention of Mr Feijóo, of the People's Party, one cannot trust what he says. Because today he says one thing, tomorrow afternoon they say another and tomorrow morning they say another. And this afternoon, they say the opposite. One, when installed in the lie, is at risk of lying about himself. But, finally, what we've been thinking about is that in this issue of primary care there are some issues that are interesting. The budgets of the Board — which you see as Mr Feijóo does not believe either, and it must be that these 70 million euros turn out to go to primary care but no one knows — say that the staff we have in primary care this year about the previous year is diminished, and that the year before the previous year has declined further. Or, what is the same, that in three budgets that have this legislation — it is the third that will be approved, predictably next month — we lose in primary care 317 health professionals. By the way — I said the budgets — if there are more than 1,500 — that today is no longer quoted, it will not be! — that they are, according to Mr Feijóo many times, in public health, where are they paid? Because in the budgets they're not! Are there 1,500 more professionals who are not charged? Is it a new model labor operator, that is, we're hiring 1,500 health professionals but we don't pay them? And then we pay somebody 70 million euros and you don't know why, because the hospital's public. You're paying 70 million people you're not paying and you're not charging 1,500 professionals. Mysteries of accounting! [[Applause]] It is also true that, in terms of accounting, the People's Party is not very reliable. [[Applause]] There's a problem with public health in general, and with primary care in particular. And there's a problem -- as we said -- of a concept that leads to a planning deficit. The elimination of the administrations by the People's Party was a clear symptom. And that problem is planning -- that is, there is no one today in the organisational structures that directs primary care and that manages to coordinate. In health centres, who organizes the replacement shifts of professionals? By the way, a very interesting question to know what happened at the Roadmap. Who organizes staff replacement shifts? How? We wanted to ask the manager of EOXI, who is responsible for the road CAP, but we can't because there are people who can't talk in this Parliament. Remember. What we have to say is that, as there is no such coordination, there is also a loss of resources. If no one knocks or defends primary care resources, no one will exist to allow them to be granted. Because if no one asks, no one grants. And this brings us to two essential issues that we bring through this initiative, in terms of personnel and in terms of health centres, of infrastructure. In terms of staff — as we mentioned — there are 1,249 professionals less in budgets than in 2009, but there are even 317 professionals less than in the first budgets of the same legislation, 317 in two years. So what we sincerely consider is that there is an intentional reduction of staff. What are you doing? Which is not replaced by professionals, which does not exist the ability to cover all casualties or holidays and which, therefore, is grouping services, which is the final intention: to concentrate, concentrate from rural health centres to comarcas; and to concentrate on hospital services from comarcas to large hospitals. Because concentration facilitates attention to part of the population, yes, to which it has better and easier access; but makes it difficult for most of the population, particularly those living in rural areas and especially those who usually use primary care; especially — who are — those older people who live in a very scattered environment. And so what we're doing is we're calculating our primary attention from an office, closing with a google and an excellent sheet. And we need to look at people who go to health centers. But in addition to the question of staff, this incredible precariousness, we have a problem with health centers. And we've debated it so many times that I think the best, sometimes, are the examples. Look, the Road is going to count -- predictably, so it's announced -- with a new health center, it's going to have two health centers. The Road will have two health centers, Caldas still doesn't have the health center you need, or Vilagaría — with more population than The Road — will have one health center nearly 50 years ago. Do you know the difference between the Road, the Caldas and the Vilagaría? That on the road governs the PP. [[Applause]] But don't worry that it can be statistically a case, and one thing because it can be anecdotal. In Melide there's going to be a new health center. In Ribadavia, how many years have you been claiming a health center? Do you know what the difference is? Melide rules the PP. In Ruby there will be, after the complaints, more doctors. [[Murmurs.]] In Cuntis, with more population and the same claim, less than in Rubiá. Do you know what the difference is? Who rules? This one lets her choose, see if they know. The Lalín CAR, fantastic the Lalín CAR!, was promised by a councilman today in the Government — which is from Lalín — with an absolutely necessary investment, priority — before a municipal election, eh! You haven't done anything in four years, the following elections have arrived and promised you again. Primaritary, absolutely necessary! We're gonna be the first to sue Lalin's CAR! What happened in those 2015 elections? PP has lost the government! Do you know what he said — in writing — the Government of the United States now in this legislation? That Lalin's CAR is not a priority. Why? Because he used to rule the PP. But lastly — as an example, because some examples are paradigmatic — the same Commission 5a just a few months ago discussed four health centres that basically brought the same concern. Health centers have a maintenance problem, and they have problems with non-supply staff. And there was, on the scale corresponding to health centres, a proposal similar to what we socialists bring here today. There were four health centers: Ponteareas, As Neves, Mondariz and Pazos de Borbén. The People's Party approved some and voted against others. In the face of the same complaint — and believe me, I have been there and I am sure that there are more Members who have been there — and they would probably be unable to differentiate another health center because the situations are similar...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u67	...you know what the difference was? Who approved the one where the PP governs and the others refused. That is sectarianism, sectarianism — with all the letters — and also disgusting. So what we're thinking is that they don't do a cure where PP people ask PP people what PP people do. They do a health care thinking that it's necessary a service that citizens consider very personal and also very necessary. And so we give the tools to the professionals — who are very well valued because they deserve it — to work properly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u69	And so they can make this service an equal service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u71	And a service that works in equity. And that's what we've been thinking about today's initiative. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u72	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u73	Good morning. If for anything it's serving this set-up of the investigation commission is to highlight what is already known, and it's just that the People's Party doesn't stand for the slightest proof of cotton. And the cotton test is that they're installed in that possibility of making their virtual reality. And then, when there's the slightest chance that you can go beyond that manufacture of that virtual reality, then you panic, you go into real panic, and you see clearly. I mean, the People's Party is that it has real panic that some reality of the real state of public health in Galicia can be heard in this Parliament. And today we saw clearly how the president of the Government, Nuñez Fexóo, was incapable, beyond saying that he came here to appear, of committing himself to letting an investigation commission run with a bit of normality. Because the People's Party is unable to leave a commission of inquiry to which the CAP professionals come here. How can you investigate what happened at the Road Health Center without the family members of the deceased person or the CAP professionals coming here, and listening exclusively to the version of the People's Party? They're panicked that you can investigate what's happened in Povervisa, or they're panicked about what's going on with the privatizations of electromedicine or maintenance -- that's the professionals who are in the day-to-day world and who see what's going on -- or listening to the professionals in the 061 and ambulances, or that we can ask you about the supercurm, Eloína Núñez, what happens or what responsibilities it has with what happened at the Road CAP. So if they don't want to miss his word, they should commit themselves to letting the investigation committee come up with the proposals that we make to the opposition and that we choose the opposition. Because they blatantly lie when they say the opposition proposals choose them to oppose them. Lie! [[Applause]] Not only do they lie shamelessly but they go down low, something they've never seen. I mean, a People's Party which, I insist, panics that in this Parliament... If you don't panic, open the doors of Parliament so you can come here and tell what all these people have to say! [[Murmurs.]] If you don't have any panic, let them come here. [[Applause]] I, of course, am shocked when the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Puy, goes to the media to say that the opposition wants to channel public health. Of course! Of course, we want to open up public health. We want you to know what's going on in public health. We want you to know what the People's Party is doing with public health. [[Applause]] Of course! [[Applause]] The People's Party says they're going to bring the experts in cuts, and we want to bring those who are suffering the cuts. Of course! We want to bring those who are suffering the cuts! There's the difference. And that's the one who's panicking, the one here, where there's a record, if you know what's going on with public health. [[Applause]] Just like they're panicking the data comes — and I'm going to take a moment to the initiative that the Socialist Party brings here today — of what happens with primary care. They're panicking that professionals are coming to talk about what's going on with primary care in our country. Primary care is the true gateway to the system. And since 2009, the People's Party has stopped investing in primary care more than 2,000 million euros; 2,000 million euros less invested in our country's public health in primary care, only in primary care, since 2009. In 2009 they were for primary care in budget 1,437 million euros. In the budget of the year 2019 — which is being processed in this Parliament — van 1,248, 13.13 % less of the budget in primary care. So, with less budget, less professional, less resources, of course, that has consequences. And what's the result is waiting lists. I was told this morning by one person: "I called for an appointment last week for my primary health care doctor and they gave me an appointment for the 28th day" -- 28th is Wednesday next week. That's the reality of primary care. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] It's not a timely case, no. Mr. Núñez Centeno, if you want to open the door of the investigation commission and let people come and tell you these things that happen to them every day. Let them tell you these things! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u75	Let them come and tell you these things! That this is the situation of primary care, all of them, absolutely every day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u77	...that's how they've put primary care. And that's why they panic and don't want to be spoken to in this Parliament, to be heard in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u79	...those things that happen every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u80	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is an honor for me to go up to this rostrum to defend the primary care of Galicia, because I, before the honourable Member, am a doctor of the family of reason, of heart, of vocation and also of passion. Primary care — it has been said here many times this morning — is not the gateway to the Greek health system, it is the body, it is the machinery room, it is the living room, it is the meeting place of all the people who contact the health system. It's not a place of passage, it's where they detect themselves, if they manage and manage people's health problems, with timely visits to hospital consultations, with circumstantial incomes, but primary is the place of reference for sick people. "Don't send me to the hospital, Doctor," I've heard it dozens of times. A lot of people talk about the aging of our population. When was the last time they visited a waiting room in a Brazilian rural health center? No place like this to visualize the demographic decline. I'd like to say that it's even a place of social encounter and of the clustering of our seniors, those about which the Galician Council of Bioethics warns that they are in a situation of vulnerability. The health centre must be one of the most accessible places in our territory. The primary provides health care, but also offers support, accompaniment, management of medical and social problems, emotional, cultural and relational. In it people don't have clinical entities, they take their lives; and their professionals don't know only about medicine, we know about people and precariousness, and about inequality — although they don't like to talk to the people of the People's Party. But this is not the model that interests who, rather than attending the waiting rooms of rural health centres, frequents the red carpet of Amancio Ortega — who, by the way, did not become rich by a philanthropy alarm. [[Applause]] The health of the Greeks and the Greeks — and those who come, because we believe in universality — is a business for those who bet on creating the need for their privatization, with the abandonment of an accessible, fair and equitable coverage system. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a problem of ideology, or of politics, if you want. Primary care represents that accessible, human, less-interminent, market economy, that doesn't care too much about the technological industry; that's where there's less business; that's what we really care about because that's where people get to with their needs; that's what little solves much, that's who manages 90% of people's health problems; that's what's left out of management structures and has smaller budgets, as we've seen lately; that's what's got absolutely committed professionals who complete their consultations. I can assure you that I know what I'm talking about, those who know people by name, by their surnames, by their family, who know about their work, their problems, their mistreatment and even their economic hardships. "Assistance continuity and long-termity," the experts call it. I would call on him to roast the sick people, diagnose them, treat them and accompany them in their processes; even to return their own autonomy to their health and prevent them from becoming inferred, fairly and with a view to gender. Primary care is not of interest — they are interested in tricuspid valves — although it is the right place to handle health inequalities with greater equity. As our reference ideologist, Tudor-Hart, says, to give more to those who have less. Of course, we will support this initiative, Mr Torrado, of course we are in favour of improving the infrastructures of health centres and, above all, of course, we leap and work for a management of the human resources necessary and sufficient to ensure not only the comprehensive health needs of people, but also the professional dignity itself. We know that the compañeras of health centres and also those of the CAP are exhausted from exhausting days, with uncovered absences, with overflowed coupons, with waiting lists. We're on your side, we're them. We know that they commit themselves to their work at the expense of their health, their tranquillity and their insomnia. The CAP comrades are on their way to war claiming conditions of work that do not revolve around exploitation, worthy of them, but also worthy of the patients they care for, so as not to reproduce what happened this summer on the Road with José Manuel Brey Brea. Maybe you don't want to investigate him in condition, but I assure you we know what we're talking about. Our children and our children also know what we're talking about, and their pediatricians. These days the Director General of Health Care, Dr. Aboal, appeared in Commission 5a talking about the strategy of attention to chronicity. He sold smoke. You know what's the best strategy? Let the professionals work, give them time, which is the diagnostic and therapeutic resource par excellence, time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u83	I'm done. And allow them to develop their entire training potential in the first link, in primary care. They know more than they let them do. Let's do it and we'll earn health, efficiency and well-being for people and professionals. We dignify primary, ladies, health is the most precious good and mustn't be an object of speculation. I'm sure you know Mr. Santalices, Mr. Centeno, Mrs. Friend, we all know that. It's not to be heard to those who suffer or overcharge those who work to beat them. He's not worthy or worthy of a country like ours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u84	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u85	We shall vote in favour of the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. We greet the students at CEIP in Sigüeiro, in the Coruña, students and students in 5th Primary, and also the teachers, who accompany us today. Welcome to Parliament. And now if you have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u87	I also greet students and teachers from downtown Sigüeiro. Well, it gives the feeling that Mr. Torrado and Mrs. Prado had little interest in talking about primary care. For his part, En Marea's voicer, indeed, spoke of primary care. If you want to talk about the investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen, come to the investigation committee. They also misinterpret Mr. Puy's words. Mr. Puy said textually, "Open the Welsh health channel indefinitely." They forget that last part of Mr. Puy's sentence. As far as the commission is concerned, I want to talk the least. We offered a proposal that led more opposition people than the Government group, with the highest number of appearances in history in an inquiry commission in the Galician Parliament. Point. Parliament does indeed envisage setting up an investigation committee, but not doing what the minority groups want. Mr. Torrado spoke of saying one thing today and tomorrow another, or one in the morning and another in the afternoon. I think you were referring to President Sánchez, the Government of the Socialist Party, who I think is the greatest exponent of saying one thing this morning and another in the afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] He also spoke of the Vigo Hospital cannon. I don't know if Mr. Torrado has a mortgage or not. When I had a mortgage, I would pay my mortgage cannon every month. I don't know if that's the fashion of the new policy now. And speaking of primary care, Mr. Torrado, Ribadavia in October approved a parcel aggregation to make a health center, which means it was impossible to do without that parcel. Caldas has just approved the general municipal management plan and has no transferred plot. In Lugo, with socialist government, residence is not licensed to make the health centre projected at the residence. Well, I think Mr. Torrado doesn't have to convince me of the importance of primary care. Mrs. Miranda is a family doctor, and I've been a family doctor for many years too. Of course, what I can perceive -- and I have worked with Health -- is that every and every government in Galicia has brought improvements to primary care. What's our problem today? Two: the first is the demographic situation and the second is the shortage of professionals. This increase in life expectancy and advances in medicine make many diseases that were previously acute now chronicle. But, of course, there have been many technological advances to facilitate primary work: clinical history, radiological image, e-consultation, electronic recipe, telephone consultation and, more recently, Telea platform for the attention of chronic patients monitored at their own home. What's going on? That Mr. Torrado here hangs a mantra and never lets it go again. He started talking about hiring resident doctors and their work stabilization. The president has just said that Galicia is the autonomous community that has a higher percentage of stability. But, of course, it is now that the Socialist Party rules in Madrid, and now it can charge the replacement rate — which, by the way, has approved Mr Zapatero —. At this moment of economic improvement — although we do not know what this economic improvement can last with what we are seeing — can be withdrawn. If that replacement rate is withdrawn, it would be possible to increase the number of fixed jobs in public health. I think that's basic legislation. What is obvious is that there are difficulties in reaching professionals to cover eventualities: for casualties and for substitutions of all kinds. And especially this month, because there's an OPE called for this next weekend with 241 family doctors' squares. And the people who are going to introduce themselves to the opposition don't want to make substitutions on these dates — rightfully, of course — because they want to introduce themselves to the opposition. This shortage of professionals has already occurred in other years, in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and not only in family medicine, but in pediatrics and in many other specialties. But what I do have is the fact that, out of 69 family doctors who finished the specialty in May, 55, 79.7% are currently hired in Sergas. What's going on? That there are many doctors who come to Galicia to do the specialty, because, of course, despite what is said here about the Greek health, the Greek hospitals have a lot of fame in the rest of the state. And people come from outside to Galicia to do the specialty, even other countries come to Galicia to do the specialty. And what do you want, slave them, force them to stay in Galicia? These people will also have the right, and try to return to their own countries or their own autonomous communities. It also usually tells us about the health barometer, but, of course, of a data, of a timely data! Other data: percentage of Welsh people who claim that primary care is equal or better than in the last five years, 84%; 90% of Welsh and Welsh people who came to the head doctor last year claim that the attention received was either good or very good. They are similar figures since 2012, and of course much higher than the other years in which the People's Party did not rule. The barometer says that the percentage of Welsh people who prefer public health to private primary care is 83%, compared to a state average of 69.6%. And valuation, indeed, is a very low rating, because we Greeks are very demanding, but it is the highest in the historical series and, of course, far higher than other governments. There are realities. The president spoke: 1,500 more workers, 167 more family doctors and 538 nursing professionals. Those are realities and the rest are half-truths. With regard to examples of socialist management in health care, the first one just gave it to the president. Andalucia: "Savage of primary care in Andalucia to demand better working and remunerative conditions." The second example is the memorial of the Health Council of the Community of Valencia — this council that was addressed to Mrs Montón, who was promoted to the minister, ephemeral, for the merits held in Valencia. Figures of the memory itself: between the years 2015 and 2017 reduced the budget, the hospital beds, the number of nursing professionals, increased the waiting lists and derivations. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many health centers the Community of Valencia has done with the socialist government, after that bad, evil government of the People's Party? Do you know how many you've done? None. He did a consultancies in a legislate. One thing is preaching and another is giving wheat, and opposition seems to like preaching more than giving wheat. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u88	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u89	Thank you, President. Do you know what Counselor Montón did? Take the Alcira Hospital, which you privatize like the Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, and return it to the public system. I don't have a mortgage, I still live on rent. [[Applause]] I'll have it someday, I guess. I still live on the rent. But the mortgages grant the banks, not Actota, who is the owner of Vigo hospital, not Actota. Of course, because if they grant it to the builders, which are the builders and are the participants in the hospital management, and those who record it -- that's why they have a CIF, which is what happens at Vigo hospital -- then the property is not from Junta. [[Murmurs.]] But finally, you'll know who we're paying for 70 million euros. Maybe now they know that there's 70 million euros and they get here in Marseilles and say, "They're mine." Maybe. [[Laughter]] You laugh, but it's not funny to me. But at last... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Núñez Centeno, you always quote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u90	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u91	It's just that it's just to mention the Bárcenas and the thing is to feed... maybe they're closer to Pablo Crespo, man, but nothing happens either. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u92	Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u93	No, if I don't talk, but they talk and I, because I'm polite... since you don't cut them, I, because I'm polite... I see. [[Parliament adopted the resolution]] No, it's okay, if it's my fault. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go, exactly! You usually quote here several things, such as, for example, the 1,500 more professionals in the healthcare system. I read the board budget. But what are they telling us, that the board's budget is a lie? The board budget says this year we have 58 less than last year in primary care, and we have 317 less than two years ago. But that says the budget, which you do, I think. Maybe she does Action, but it's her budget. It's 58 less this year, 317 less than two years ago in this legislation. But it's your budget. Or do you put a budget there on the papers and then come here to tell them what they want — which may also be —. But at least they have a little common sense with the things you do. He didn't tell me anything about the health centers and that question... of chance, as he says, the chance that they always do... had more examples for him, huh?: Perero de Aguiar, what will be done now. But not in Bouzas, who want to do a little thing that's not worth it. Yesterday the Resented were quoted. I like The Enemies: It doesn't dawn in Bouzas. And with this counselor, it seems like it's never going to dawn. But the investigation committee also tells me, it's curious. Look, I've read the attendees, but, if you want, read the documentation. And the documentation of the PP workplan and the documentation finally approved is curiously the same. The PP made a proposal: 21 reports, 26 attendees. The proposal that is adopted with the votes of the People's Party is: 21 documents, 26 associates, the same. You've done an investigation commission to hide things because it shames you to know what might happen, or you know it and shames you to know. If you're ashamed of that, it's not our problem. But I stop doing this spooky thing to say that there are many more people... and if they don't have a facility, if it's not a number problem!, if you've already reduced the number!, if there's already a suitable proposal!, if you've already assumed that time isn't the problem! [[Applause]] You said literally: there are people here who can't talk. By the way, let's see if it's true that there are people who can't speak in this Parliament. Let's see him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u95	I'm done, president. So I remember the president again: "the opposition proposals choose them to oppose." We'll see if you're able to keep this statement one day, only until tomorrow. One day, that's what we thought.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u96	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u97	And so we'll see what they want to do with the commission of investigation, whether to pay attention to the president or to what the president really wants to do, which is to hide some people and hide their own lies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u99	We'll see you tomorrow, it's one day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u100	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the increase by the Government of Galicia of the county specifically intended for the prevention, treatment and fight against violence against the masquerading until at least 1% of the total in the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u101	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u102	Good morning to all and to all. We're going to talk about a proposal that could directly launch the Galician Union on masquerading violence, which was time to focus a little on the debate in our country. Less bonded, less economic resources; less institutional declarations, more budgets; less words, more facts. That could be the summary of the reasons that lead us from the Galician Nationalist Block to insist, once again, and I warn you that we will do all that they do, to bring this proposal to the House and increase the specific budgets of macho violence to 1% of the total, which currently assumed about 100 million against a social problem that we understand is first order; a wild violence that has already cost our country, in which it goes year, three fatal victims. [[Applause]] These three are the first reasons we have to bear in mind today in the face of this debate, but the fact is that there is a lot more behind them. We must be aware that every murder is a failure of the system, it is a collective responsibility also, ultimately, of all of us. And we must not lose sight of something very important: although I hope that in 2019 there will not be a single murder in our country, that will not mean that there are not many women who are suffering various forms of violence, because the patriarchate's shadow is very intense and has many facets. We make this proposal in this plenary because we also understand that it is time that these excuses, these filibusterisms, which we also hear on Monday in the plenum of budgets, about the removal of a euro from here, which if this match is not well stated and so on. To be clearly seen if there is political will or if there is no political will. We are, ladies and gentlemen, at the doors of November 25, and that leads us to the fact that this week there are many acts, many symbolic actions, many gestures, many lilac ties, many plates on the blades and so on. We understand that this, however, is positive, but it has a risk: the routine and consolidation of this date. And we understand that, above that risk, feminism has been able to condition the political agenda, that this is very positive, and that it is important that every November 25 we all get involved in these issues. But we also understand that we must sincerely say that we also see many inconsistencies and hypocrisies on these dates. That is why it is important for the BNG that we take account of and debate in all institutions at this time — and so we are pushing — the fundamental question, which is economic resources, because without economic resources those words will never happen to reality. Because to make the claim that this is a priority, to do well what we say we are going to do, and to do everything that our law tells us to do, these resources are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important legal framework born of debate and consensus. We talked a lot about this yesterday during Mr. Rueda's appearance. And I insisted -- and I literally said -- that today, in 2018, the Spanish State continues to violate the Istanbul Convention, an agreement in which we were pioneers in the application of the precepts that were later incorporated. So the best way to thank people, the collectives who forged that law, that institutional architecture, the best way to thank them for their work is to be ambitious and improve their application. Because it is true that this framework is important, but it is not less true that it is not underdeveloped at this time. I think it's also important to point out that we have a demanding society that demands answers. In 2018, feminism came out repeatedly — with great success, in addition — in this country on the streets. In a historic strike on 8 March, but also when the patriarchal judgments were to be answered around the Manada; when one of the feminicides had to be answered; when one had to respond to sexual assault in our country. And this must also mean one before and one after in the fight against macho violence. After these mobilizations, the People's Party said it would take note, but the truth is we can confirm at this point that it was a declarative matter. A little more we had beyond a co-responsibility plan whose budget is very scarce and which is also not concrete. We understand that this is not enough. We must also focus on the response to macho violence, so we must be up to it. Because we're convinced that there are camouflaged packs where the system has been, the ones that have to be removed from the shell because they don't always respond as they should. And we have to make every effort to correct it. We want answers, and those answers have to be budgeted, we have to supply them with economic content. And this important legal framework and this demanding society are two fundamental legs of fighting masculine violence. But something else is needed, because the strength of the patriarchate we have to change is so deep and its weight is so overwhelming that we need one more point of support. We need a third point of support which is a substantial increase in economic resources. More economic resources that enable us to accelerate this process that we understand is of historical change. And we're convinced that also part of the rage that has channeled the latest mobilizations has behind them the frustration and the burden of carrying behind us a decade of crisis that we women don't cause but that we had to be paying. And we wondered how long we're gonna keep paying that price? Just by setting an example, the Galician Equality Board has cut 243 million euros in this decade — 243! — and we understand that now is the time to return to this situation for several reasons: because it is necessary, because it is also an exigencies of society, because we also have greater budgetary capacity at the moment to say so. In 2017, the board budget grew by more than 400 million; in 2018 by more than 260; and for the next year by more than 360. So just thinking about this legislation, just thinking about these increases, is that 100 million euros? We think that, of course, not. And we understand that it is also a necessary continuation of a historical process of democratic evolution, of evolution of what we have done in this country. Today morning it was said how little the two-party government had devoted to the issue of macho violence. Less meant the Fraga Government, which didn't even have that match incorporated into its budgets. But we don't want to focus the discussion on it. It's logical that ten years ago the initial county had been small. Today, of course, BNG would not be part of a government that had not properly prioritized this issue in its budgets. But this is the fruit of the evolution we've been learning into, where we've been designing tools and making them better. But we sincerely believe that we can go much faster if there is political will and if there is economic commitment. And we are also convinced that since the People's Party stands, they are aware of this issue and share part of our reflection. It is necessary, and you know, because you yourself, in realizing — I want to think — of the need and also of social and political pressure, have been increasing in this legislation, for example, the accounts destined for the budgetary departure of macho violence. And that's because it's a necessity, because there are areas where to invest that money. Unfortunately, there's a lot left to do. The truth is that what disappoints us is that this year's increase — that's just over 8 million — is basically what the state is coming to. Yesterday we had a long and hard debate with Mr Rueda, and he told us, for example, that he was concerned about whether the legal units, which is the design of those infrastructures, would not be able to cover them with those resources. Well, it's a logical concern in the budget organization. But the fact is that Galicia has budgetary capacity to put an additional EUR 8 million and put a hundred million more — if any — at the disposal of issues related to violence. We have self-government, and when the state fails — because it has failed all these decades — we have our own capacity. So, because you're so worried because there are no budgets in the state anyway, because here they have one more argument. We saw yesterday that there were issues — as Mr Rueda said — such as the reception facility, which experienced difficulties this year, and spoke of EUR 500,000. Why not make more available when GDP has grown in Galicia for several years? If we can increase what we're going to pay for the debt, I ask, if it's worth paying for the debt, what happens? What is more important than the fight against macho violence? Finally, we understand that this is also necessary because the feminists and the nationalists of this country do not stop insisting on a question. We want Galicia to be a vanguard in the area of defense against macho violence, and for that we need more resources to improve what we already have and to adopt new issues. And I want to finish it. We have a lot of areas in which to focus that greater budgetary capacity if they are willing to equip our country. We could extend the aid to victims of violence so that they are really a strong economic resource to get them out of their situation. We could make it happen if we keep the law, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u104	...in article 25, psychological care in the primary; we could reform the family meeting points, which have a lot of problems; we could take programs to all educational centres and not just to a few corners; we could improve the victim's care offices with our own resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u106	We could ask a lot more questions, and then I'll sink into some more proposal. We could comply with our law, develop it, and improve it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u108	So we understand — Mr. President — Mr. Feijóo said — he quoted it —: "there is everyone with their moral restraint." For us, one out of every hundred euros, of course, for a problem that costs the lives of people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u110	...of most of this country is not excessive. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u111	You have another shift later. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u112	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, a reminder for that recently attacked woman, sprayed with acid by her ex-husband in Tenerife. A more observation than violence against women knows no rest. [[Applause]] We talked about it yesterday, during the presence of the Vice-President: it is essential that this Government push in the same direction as the Government of the State. And you can't wait for this funding to pass on to you to put in place the measures reflected in the plans and in Law 11/2007 itself for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. Because the focus of violence points to everyone and to everyone, and therefore it's a task that involves the autonomous institutions, the councils, the government of the state, but also citizenship. And knowing that the fact so far is insufficient, it is necessary that contributions be increased by all. We were also saying yesterday that the economic contribution of the Galician Union to the fight against violence for next 2019 is even below 3.8% of the overall increase in budgets. I insist again, the total 14.11 million of the budget for violence this year can only be explained by the contribution of the 8.54 of the State Covenant's distribution fund. This is 60,5 % State contribution, 39,5 % Galician contribution. And yesterday I was also saying to Mr. Rueda, this government cannot sleep under the shadow of the state, it has to play a more active role and contribute, at least, to the same extent as the State. So since the Socialist Party, we don't know if we need to talk about a 1% contribution from the budgets of the Union, more or less than that percentage target, to meet policies against gender-based violence. But we do share the idea that on March 8th, there was an explicit request by the women of Greece for things to change, for the commitment of governments to be real, and it is impossible to respond to such demand without an extraordinary contribution that clearly drives new measures and actions. It must also be remembered that Mr. Feijóo spoke on 8 March himself, in the face of the indisputable presence of women in the streets, to take note. And we don't know what would happen to that note because what we see another year is that the contribution to fighting violence not only didn't grow, but it even relaxed, waiting for Dad to get the chestnuts out of the fire. Contribution from the distribution of state funds which, by the way, is Spain's highest fifth, and 40% of it is justified by the rural condition of Galicia. However, and despite yesterday's announcement by the vice president of working in rural policies, nothing is concrete, not in memory, nor in the breakdown of budgets. [[Applause]] Not a single word about it. Yesterday, aid for the care of women victims in rural areas was commented on in collaboration, for example, with the federations of rural women, but without quantifying the contribution. As well as measures of prevention in rural areas also through women's associations. The government is asking us to put on the glasses of trust and to believe in words and advertisements, but the degree of non-compliance of this government is so great that it's really hard to trust us. We ask them to carry out the measures and the accounts, and we will be able to know how much more it takes to make. And since we also like things to be palpable, we agree with the BNG that it is necessary to promote a greater contribution in the fight against violence so that it can be achieved, in coherence with the objectives of state funds and with the particularities, in addition to those that Galicia counts. Our Group is the first one that is willing to reach agreements, to continue to advance in equality policies, to leave the parties side by side, because we believe that the end of equality and the fight against gender violence is, and must be, above all,. But they will also understand that those documents full of money must also be referred to in numbers that turn them into real possibilities of being carried out. Yesterday, the vice-president of the Government announced the launching of fourteen measures, which are reflected, on the other hand, in the State Covenant, which, by the way, we believe is not a merit, but an obligation, but about 280 measures remain to be implemented. The Government of the State has already committed itself to doubling the departure intended for the municipalities for the coming year and thus supporting them in a more firm manner, but it will remain insufficient without the considerable increase in the economic contribution also by the Self-Government. They increase funds, and then we can start talking about possibilities for measures rather than desires. They will always have the Socialist Party, ready to support and promote the achievement of real and effective equality, which we believe is vital for the women of today and for the future of this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u114	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We are going to support this initiative, which is a demand in which we fully agree and on which we have already expressed ourselves on different occasions, on different initiatives, a demand also for the feminist collectives themselves, who are also doing it, as well as for a good part of society, that we could hear how this 8th of March and in other mobilizations: "less speeches and more money." We agree on the need to increase, and much, resources; fundamental to improving the intolerable situation of inequality and fundamental so that women who suffer from macho violence can get out of this situation with full support and sufficient resources. Budgets must be increased, and much more so, in training for the agents involved; in teaching, teachers and teachers; in the field of justice and state security bodies. There is a need to increase awareness and sensitization; the same as to bet firmly on an equal education; and there is a need to increase, and much more, the accompanying budgets for women living situations of violence. We agree with the need to increase and also agree with the proposed figure, which is the same as we have seen proposing also our group, as this first step to show a real commitment in the struggle for equality and against macho violence, because the speeches are fine, the minutes of silence are fine, but what is needed, and much, is to increase budgets in this matter. On March 8th, I had a turning point in the demands of a society and of women who said enough! It's enough inequality, it's enough wage gap, it's enough to live in fear, it's enough to be killed and it's enough of a machismo that's always spread to its broads, but now it's found with thousands of women who stand up to defend a more equal society and therefore fairer. That triumph of women on 8 March, and throughout this year, I have undergone a change in the speech of the People's Party. And with initiatives like this, and with many other initiatives that come to this plenary and that we defend on other occasions, what we seek is for the People's Party to pass from speeches, to words, to facts, because, coming from where they come, they won't convince us with more speech, because you just boycott the struggle permanently for equality. We still saw Mrs. Prado yesterday, in her first intervention on the subject of equality, as the first thing she did was to attack and criticize the Black campaign against violence; criticise and attack 102 municipalities and 3 of the 4 MPs for her Black campaign against violence, a campaign supported and supported by feminist collectives, not so the campaign of the Council of Galicia, cosificator, of Galicia is you. A campaign that hasn't been rectified yet and therefore has not changed its address. You came here yesterday to ridicule the campaign that all these institutions are doing. And we also saw how Mr. Tellado, before 8 March, was telling feminist women and feminist groups what it is and what it is not feminism, showing that either he doesn't understand at all anything about this issue, or that he does understand it, but he likes a patriarchal and macho society, where the gentlemen tell women what they have and don't have to do on 8 March. Mr. Tellado, machist is telling feminist collectives and women what they have to do on March 8th, to see if they start to understand it. We all saw how the People's Party did everything possible to boycott March 8. Here in Galicia Mr. Tellado Hernando, and at the state level Mr. Maroto, who even went out to say that the feminist strike was summoned by Pablo Iglesias, because, of course, they must surprise you very much that women alone are able to convene mobilizations. You gave them the same... can you tell Mr. Tellado to shut up a little bit? [[Murmurs.]] Well, shut up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask a word turn later, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u116	It gave them the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u117	Let's listen to who's using the word. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u118	The People's Party gave him just as much as the summons were an international summons, he gave him just as all the feminist groups were pushing in the state and in Galicia, he gave him just as the unions got added, you went out to lie deliberately saying things that weren't for boycotting on 8 March. They went out on land, sea, and air to boycott this mobilization. We could even know recently how the Galician Union did not respect women's right to strike at the RTVG. That's the practice of the People's Party when they have to go from speech to fact. These are the things that you do. We can continue to draw from the history of the People's Party and we can talk about Baltar, the mayor of Sanxenxo, Vilanova or Noia, and how you not only have institutional positions that have demonstrations and macho behaviors, but your party's own leadership comes out whitewashing it, normalizing it and taking its importance away from it, and in this weak way favors you to defend equality. And I will finish by telling you that the commitments are shown by pressing the green button when you have to vote on this initiative and the various initiatives that come to this Plenary of Equality. Show if you have that commitment. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Prado del Río has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we saw how the voice of the Galego Nationalist Block displayed the comprehensive Welsh Law on Prevention of Gender Violence of 2007, and appealed to its compliance. I have been a Member of this House since 2009, when we won the elections on March 1 to the Bipartisan Government. The first initiatives that took place in this House at that time, in 2009, in 2010 and in 2011, especially by opposition groups, were all aimed at the fulfilment of that law, which had not developed a single article. I remember discussions here to create the Galego Council of Women, the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, the Centre for Integral Recovery of Women, which had come to this House annually to present a report on the development of the comprehensive Gender Violence Act, the creation of the victim's offices. Well, throughout all these years, the German Government of the People's Party did all and each of those issues that you claimed just after you left the Government. [[Applause]] This evolution of progress also led to a reformulation of the governing bodies of the Galician Union. When you had two bodies destined for equality, because you had to comply with two factions of your political organization, with the UPG and with the most moderate part of the Nationalist Block, and therefore you had on one side with the General Secretariat of Equality and on the other with the General Directorate of the Galician Equality Service, from there there was a reunification and there was a single body, at much less cost, to be able to allocate more money to women, to fight against gender violence and equality. So you guys from there started saying we had less budget. Of course, because we haven't put children's schools in the vice-presidency budget, which you had. Do you want us to put the children's schools in the budget of equality? Of course, the lady...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u121	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. I was telling Mrs. Presas that the Co-responsibility Plan had a child's budget, I think she said. Madam Presas, does it look like little 848 million euros, when you come here today to ask for 100 million? Does it seem little to you that by 2019 the Co-responsibility Plan has 200 million euros? If that's part of the equality speech, it's already 100 million times two. But we're going further. From that moment on, the progress of the Board was in compliance with the law, and it was in compliance with the law that you passed but did not develop, so they began to say that the budget had to be increased. And last year they said, let's put an amount, 1% of the budget. And we were wondering, what game would you like to put that 100 million euros in? Well this year you revealed it, because you presented a partial amendment to gender-based violence in concept 470, for private companies. I don't know how you would develop 100 million euros for private companies on gender violence. Of course we don't agree with this. But, said this, Mrs Presas, in this amendment you put "The Galician Pact against Gender Violence" do you want to replace the work of the parliamentary committee on the study of equality? Do you want to replace the work we are doing to establish the conclusions and recommendations, and consequently in each of them your budget? Not us. We want to debate it. We are not going to allow six Members of the Galego Nationalist Block to replace the work of seventy-five Members of this House, because we all have something to say about those measures that we want to implement in gender-based violence. And as Mrs Quinteiro said yesterday, and I fully agree with her, the fight against gender-based violence is not only to allocate resources to victims: we have to raise awareness, we have to prevent and equip ourselves. And you know that, Mrs. Presas, because you read the committee's work. You know that the representatives of the information centres to the woman came here to say that it was essential to have conciliation resources. And you, of these 100 million, don't even use a euro for conciliation measures. I therefore believe it is important for the Commission to decide what measures to take and to decide on the budget for each measure. The Galego Nationalist Block won't come here to decide that and where the money is put from a job that we have to do among all of us, not the Galician Nationalist Block. And, Mr. Cal, yesterday I didn't criticise a campaign, I criticised how to hire that campaign. I criticized Mr. Martiño Noriega giving his finger to a company hundreds of thousands of euros and which, at the same time, had dismantled the Women's Information Centre, without legal advisers for a few months. That's what I criticized. [[Applause]] That's what I criticized. It's in the Journal of Sessions and you can check it out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u124	No, no, no, no. And look, I'm not going to let you say that we have no sensitivity to women in the People's Party. Our secretary-general, whom you have referred to, Mr. Miguel Tellado, has much more moral cataclysm than your secretary-general, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, when he says that women must be whipped until they bleed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado del Río. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas Bergantinos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u126	Finally, once again, the People's Party snores for bringing up a proposal to debate in the field of violence against men. It is true that we have reached many consensuss — you know, Mrs Prado. It's incredible! To those who see this debate may seem incredible that we have reached consensus. But the truth is, we're not going to give up. Do not worry that we will continue to bring forward, when it does not bring the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party proposals focused on the area of Greek — because the obsession is now the State Pact — we will continue to lay down duties on the Committee of Galicia if you do not do so. [[Applause]] In any case, I made a constructive proposal and I did some data-based criticism, but I didn't see here releasing a record of the damage: I didn't talk about Mr. Married and gender ideology, I didn't mention that the first law that the People's Party approved was that of Red Mother in this German Parliament. And since then zero impulse of self-legislation in the field of macho violence, it was the BNG who had to do that work. [[Applause]] I didn't come here to remember that the first issues they did were to cut down the aid to victims of macho violence. Yes, Mrs. Prado, Official Gazette of Galicia, they removed the more than 1.5 stretch of the IPREM. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, because you must think that a woman who covers more than 900 euros in this country has no right to aid for masculine violence. [[Applause]] We don't think so, and we're going to bring up a proposal again to correct this issue. Let's see what you vote then when, instead of 100 million, we talk about one and a half. To see you vote, because Mr Feijóo today has done his best to ignore it and has not responded in this respect to Mrs Pontón. Nor did I say that they also contributed to the loading of the Galician Wellness Service. I did not focus on these issues because I think we have a lot to talk about in a positive way, and you come here to invent: that there are 200 million euros for this year's co-responsibility plan — which is a lie — that they have spent 400 million euros on male violence — which is a lie. We're talking about 100 million specifics for this area, Mrs. Prado. And I don't think you should talk about conciliation when you cut 70% in this area, or when there are fictitious galescolas inventing Mr. Núñez Feijó in the polygons of this country -- in the Ourense polygons, in none of them. They failed the planning, Mrs. Prado. I think the initial intention was to start seven and there are four a day today — I don't remember the exact data. In any case, then you come with a fallacy that we want to impose. I don't know what. First he based his speech on what the amendment was wrong. But this is not the debate on the amendment to the budgets that they voted yesterday. But since yesterday it was so badly done and we're so stupid, so we bring a PNL today, so we can implement it with its great architecture and ability to articulate budgets. But they're also against it. And the biggest falsehood — and I finish because if I'm out of time — is that they say we want to impose an agenda. No, no, no, but explain to me that pact that we're trying to reach consensus and that, in fact, we're all trying to get it ready for this date, and we haven't been able, because we have a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u127	Mrs. Presas, stop it, please. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finish, please. And position yourself on the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u128	How will that covenant be a reality if we don't have economic resources? How? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u129	Quiet. Madam Presas, position yourself on the amendment and finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u130	Are there any measures, Mrs Prado, that cost economic resources? Is sensitization free? Doesn't it require money? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Why not one out of every hundred euros? Really, honestly, do you think it's so much? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u131	This is not a dialogue, gentlemen. Please finish and position yourself on the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u132	We start with a pocket, if they want, going down from 100 million down. Anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u133	No, no, they can't ask and answer. Please take your position on the amendment, Mrs. Presas. Excuse me, about the amendment, I didn't hear you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u134	There's no amendment. There's so little interest in this going on! There is no debate about this because no one has taken this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u135	You're right that there were no amendments, I was reading the next page. I'm sorry. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the request for the timely amendment of the Urban Plan of the Council of Mos to carry out a sporting and commercial project in the parishes of Tameiga and Pereiras
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u136	This non-law proposal has indeed been amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u137	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u138	Thank you, President. I want to start by welcoming and sending a greeting to the people who accompany us in the public, who are also here to defend the neighboring mountain, the quality of life and the rights of the people of Mos, Tameiga and Pereiras. We've come here to talk about a fallout, a rascal, a runaway, a casicada, and a monumental bat. From a lizard as uncommunal, as big as a mountain, as the mountain of Pereiras and Tameiga than they want to be suitable for doing business. We've come here to talk about the chronicle of a ballad announced with this photograph of December 15, 2017; a photograph in which the president of the board and mayor of Santas are evaluating a big ballat and a big business at the expense of the neighborhood's interests On that day, the project of Celta's sports city in Mos was introduced; a political decision was therefore announced, and then administrative machinery was put into operation to carry out that project. And just the next day, curiously, the Celta SA and the Town Hall of Mos sign an agreement to carry out an amendment to the general plan; a true falsified plan, because what they intend to commit with this amendment is that the Celta buys land with the value of rustic land and then the Town Hall and Together re-qualify them as land of tertiary use and equipment for doing business. If this isn't power deviation, if this isn't prevarication, the truth is it looks a lot like that. They have to change the plan, they have to make these changes, and they also seem to want to sell the skin here before hunting it. For example, they say that they will have all sectoral reports and different administrations in favour. They actually say Celt will be the beneficiary of this operation. So they wrote it in that convention they signed the next day of the famous photo. They put the car in front of the woods. That's what they do, they make very convincing designs of virtual reality, but the reality, the real reality, is that the sports town of Celta is the cover of a giant and a succulent business of a 120,000 square meters commercial macrocenter and also a private leisure park of 290,000 square meters in the municipal mountain of Tameiga and Pereiras; a commercial center, by the way, very well communicated, strategically located next to the AP-9 motorway, A-55 and AG-57. But, of course, when they had all cooked up, it turns out they had a stone in their shoe. It turns out that a gala village, a tough village, the parish and the community of Mos mountains appeared to them, which told them no. That neighboring mountains are indivisible, inalienable and unbundling, which can only be the object of forced expropriation — which is what they intend to do here — if the public utility is declared, the public interest of this action. But, of course, this isn't a public hospital, it's not a senior residence, it's not an institute; this is a macro-business of a sports society, of Celta SA, which is a company that has a owner today and that tomorrow can be owned by a Qatari investment fund or a Chinese fund that's going to keep the whole business. And here something smells like rot, in this operation there are dark interests, there are very little nests. Here is what is in interest for a macro-negotiation, to tear down forest-protection lands in order to build a commercial macro-centre. And who's behind this speculative operation? For there are the large international investor groups that have been around for many years, like voyeurs, flying over the area of Vigo to place a commercial macrocenter, and they saw their chance here after they failed in Monte Cabral. And in the Town Hall and in the Union, what the People's Party is doing is managing and protecting the interests of these speculators, of these spoilers from the country's resources. They're salespeople, lords and ladies of the People's Party, that's what they are. This project is a mess, it's a mess, it's a waste of purpose, and we don't say it. Look, in this document — which is the previous document for the strategic environmental assessment made by the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality — there are more than thirty reasons to put this project down. I don't have time here to read it, but I could tell you why it's environmental, mobility, impact on heritage. Look, just because they're going to try to tear down a Roman enclave that's affected by the road system and also by the shopping mall area, only for that reason there'd be reason to discard it. But also because of the need for water resources, because of the need for mobility, because of the destruction that will be done by land movements. There are dozens of reasons to paralyze this plan change. And, of course, after all this, of all these shrapnels... there was in the 19th century in Pontevedra a street called the street of Chanchullo, then it was called the street of the banks. Well, this mountain could also be called the mountain of the bat from now on, with what the People's Party intends to do here. Because, after all this that I have just said, there is still the final thrust of this contuberance, of this authentic contuberance, between this operation, this macro-negotiation, and the Administration of the Town Council and the Union, which is the infamous proposal to amend the Law of the Land to grant these private promoters the benefits of the Administration in order to make forced expropriation, which is already the end! Of course, you sign an agreement with Celta that says Celta may be the beneficiary of forced expropriation, which will make the necessary changes to that. And, of course, they make the modification through the back door, through the Budget Accompanying Law. This is power deviation! This is very close to prevarication! This is a medieval right of eternity applied to urbanism of the 21st century! This is what you want to do with this change. Look at the text of the amendment to the Law of the ground: "The status of expropriation may be attributed to natural or legal persons to acquire the property of all the goods and rights included in the scope of action, above the fair price, and perform the urbanization works." And this is what the third provision of the convention signed in December 2017 says: "The Real Club Celta undertakes to carry out the necessary actions to achieve the status of beneficiary or concessionary of the expropriation system." What a curiosity! You do in the Accompanying Law what they signed with Celta in this third stipulation of the convention signed almost a year ago! This is of course called shrapnel, and it's called falcated. It's called... finally, unqualified what they intend to do here! This is, of course, a monumental turn back in urban matters. He very much remembers the figure of the urbanizing agent who had absolutely devastating effects in Valencia and other parts of the state. And by the way, they want us now to be bound by the new Land Management Act with that figure of self-interest projects, to also give private promoters the ability to raid the territory, to sweep our mountains, as they have done in recent years, also with the law of depredation and other legal changes. If this comes to pass — that we are convinced that we will not be able to pass — it will end up being annulled by a judicial resolution, as it has just happened, by the way, with the Madrid Athletic Stadium Project, with the Metropolitan Wanda, that a court has just annulled the amendment of the Madrid General Plan and speaks precisely of a diversion of power, that private interests have been placed in front of the public interest, which is what you just want to do here. And we also know what happened -- you know that because you were the promoters -- with the Fadesa case in Mine. The Junta and the Town Hall, ultimately, are supporting and facilitating a gigantic urban bulldozer, putting the interests of the great predators and the great speculators above public interest, above local trade — which will also be one of the great prejudices of this action — the rights of the vicinity of the surroundings, of the owners of the land and of the traditional uses, of the social, environmental and productive uses of the mountain. This is going to be a hard battle and a long battle, but the neighborhood of Mos and the parish of Tameiga is aware, united against this project, and also supported by the political forces of the opposition. Next Friday there will be a mobilization in Mos. We're going to battle on every side: on the street...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u139	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u140	...in the mobilizations, in the parliaments, in the city halls, and where necessary, to stop this real aberration. And this battle, this party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u141	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u142	...even if they want to change the rules in the middle, we're going to win it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first I also want to welcome the neighbors of Tameiga and Pereiras, who have expressed their stand against this project. The truth is that the intervention of Wednesdays after the intervention of the President of the Union always gives new insights into the political and economic reality of the country. Actually, we're in front of an obvious ballad, but it's not the first one in the area. Mr. Feijóo spoke here, standing at the TSJ, of the public character of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. I am very reminded of Buddhist circles, where companies pay in "B" to the People's Party and then the People's Party pays in "A" to the company, in this case the Actiona. So, I'd like to know exactly how they give it to you. [[Applause]] Of the 70 million euros, there is a part, to be precise, that is of concessional activities, but there is a part, about 40 million euros, that is given to that concessionary society. I'd like to know, if the hospital is public, depending on what they give it to you. I'd like someone to explain it to me, because it's true that I can't understand it. It's true that I'm not a lawyer, but I'm not an idiot — I think — either. This is, in fact, the general framework for action: to make ad hoc laws to satisfy business initiatives absolutely out of everything that would be a minimum democratic quality. Yesterday, the Greek Government answered a written question on this issue, in which I am told that, of course, the proceedings in connection with this amendment in the municipality of Mos must be based on reasons of duly justified public interest. He constantly refers to the Soil Law of 2016, and explicitly acknowledges that urban planning is an exclusive municipal competition. Well, as Mr Bará has well said, this is clearly amended by this accompanying law, in the preliminary draft budget, with a detailed wording of the whole procedure, and, surprisingly, by an amendment by the People's Party which summarizes or summarizes this situation quite a lot, leave it only in the first paragraph. To me I was surprised, the truth is I said: at least they leave a door open to control mechanisms. But, indeed, there is the preliminary draft of the Law on the Management of Galician Territory, which is a real scandal, which is subject to public information, hung on the website of the Council and which, among other things, within these projects of self-interest, says textually in its Article 51.2: "The projects of self-interest, which may be public or private...," — I insist, or private, that is, as Mr Bará said, we do not speak of hospitals, universities, senior residences, at last— "can develop in any kind of soil." Dot and dot. I mean, there's no mating -- in any kind of soil. And in the same paragraph: "It will lead to the direct modification of the corresponding municipal planning determinations." I think it's clearer... I'm not a lawyer, I recognize that I'm not a lawyer, but it's exactly a draft law that will allow... I thank you... — I insist, I pass myself every time I come here — a lot of the intellectual contributions of Members and Members of the People's Party. I always come out a little wiser than this athril. Look, it's so obvious that it's a ball, that neither Mr. Mouriño denies it. It is so obvious that it is a ball, that neither Mr. Mouriño denies it. I'll repeat again. And of course, that's also true, while they do these, all of them, through accompaniment law, new laws, modifications of the Land Law in an absolutely constant way, what they're doing is something else, paralyzing industrial and commercial flooring in the urban area of Vigo in an absolutely scandalous way. The case of PLISAN is paradigmatic, we speak here many times about it. Do you remember? That's where companies were to be installed in January 2017. We're in January 2019 and here are the photos, but I'm tired of teaching them. The pond follows in the same place, the debugger continues to be underground and there is no industrial floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u146	Therefore, I believe that this urban ballad, joined by a constant and conscious aggression to the city of Vigo, because at the end of the matter is to use a tool to effectively attack the city of Vigo—thinking that Vigo mayor but raid the city of Vigo—because I agree in this case with Mr Bará that he will not go out ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u147	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u148	We tabled an amendment which, if accepted — we will vote in favour in any case — we believe that it modulates a little...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u150	...the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u152	Good morning. Also good days to the people of the mountain community and the water-traits communities of Mos that come here to hear this debate. Mr. Bará, I don't know if he has second thoughts, which is a small proposal. I think it's a very naïve proposal — my Feijóo, very naïve — in both meanings. That is very clear, because it is one of the biggest shocks I have seen in recent years, and that is what there have been several here, in this Parliament, who have come to the debate. But I thought that these kinds of proposals had already happened, which were other times, before the explosion of the real estate bubble; times of absolute speculation and the assumption of general interest to private interest. But this is one of the biggest frauds they intend to do in this country and I hope they won't. I honestly think it's impossible, fulfilling the legality, that this goes ahead. In that case, it would be a fraudulent operation. Because the facts are so well explained. There is a private initiative of a company — it will be a sport, but of a company — that wants to occupy 87 football fields — if we talk about hectares, talk about football fields — mostly of rustic soil with special protection, particularly forest, half of the one belonging to neighbouring mountain communities, to make a sports city; and it justifies, in the document that sends the Town Council of Mos — which is the last — the need for the re-qualification of 142,000 square metres for tertiary use — that is, for a commercial surface with 120,000 square meters of building ceilings, to give you the feasibility of the project. I mean, they're not only trying to use the public utility statement with the expropriation system to get cheap land, but they're still trying to get them 24,000 square feet back to get them out for free. That's it, everyone! And she's the president of the Pontevedra very attentive because she would also ask and she'd aim to do a seizure like this, surely, for her sports club. That's it, everyone! It's a scandal, a real scandal, a nightmare that smells like corruption everywhere. That is to say, if you read the report of the opening document, it says that the proposal — as I have already said — is justified in the need for the economic viability of a private society. I mean, they call public action to private interest. The logical reason is that there is a public planning that defends the general interest, and, within that planning and public management, the activity of private companies or private initiative, not the other way around. Here's the other way around. Here is a private initiative, which also far exceeds what is the municipal area, which will affect the level of mobility and local trade, as mentioned here, and which environmentally exceeds the limits of the municipality of Mos. Well, that private entity does what it does is to propose a succulent business, and there goes the People's Party, with Mr. Feijó to the head and with a mayor of the People's Party, moving Rome with Santiago to the legislative level to pave the way for this cacicade. Often, of course, they can't because they're caught in potatoes, because there's a living society in this country that's keeping an eye on them, right? That's why the Galician Union brought us here a reform of the Land Law, that reform that in two and a half years already has four changes, which says, "According to the principles of transparency, publicity and competition, the status of being the beneficiary of expropriation can be attributed to natural or legal persons to acquire the property of all the goods and rights included in the scope of action." This is a caicada. To put the German Government to work for an entrepreneur, that's what you're doing here. As they were caught in potatoes, as we have already reported, they now bring an amendment that removes this part but leaves the way open anyway, to see if they can still use this expropriation system. It's not justified. See how this expropriation system is justified, how the general interest is justified, and how the prevalence of private use of 800,000 square metres above the use given to the communities of neighboring mountains in common hand next to the city of Vigo is justified! Let's see how they do it! I want and hope — it is true — I look forward to knowing the response of the People's Party to that. Whoever comes here to defend it will either have to, or defend that this amendment can't go forward, or swallow a lot of which to come to defend so badly beaten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u154	He did the check, what I was put on was water and not which one. I'll see if after I greet the people who accompany us here today, we can explain a little bit what's happening. Whenever the BNG brings us an initiative to this House, it comes to give us some lessons. Today, Maese Bará has come to give us three specific lessons on this initiative: a lesson in democracy, a lesson in urban processing and a lesson in the defense of small trade. As far as democracy is concerned, it is true that the lessons of BNG are simple to understand. His conception of democracy is founded on two basic principles. Everything that doesn't like BNG is forbidden; and everything that likes BNG is mandatory. End of the nationalist constitution. Look, you don't like it... of course! [[Applause]] As you don't like the Celta project in Mos, the ordinary processing of an urban file must be called the "cascade" or "pelotation." That is yes, as BNG would like to paralyze this project by skipping all the laws and ignoring the administrative procedure, we should call social justice to which in any modern society in our environment is called prevarication. Because you bring us here, Mr Bará, is a prevarication proposal. Things for his name! As far as I know, urban authorisations are regulated acts, which must be granted if legal requirements are met, and which must be paralysed if they are not met. Therefore, the sports city of Celta in Mos will be possible if all legal requirements are met, and if not, it will not be. As simple as that. It's easy to understand. But of course, they come here to give us lessons in urbanism, and to give us lessons in urbanism they have to disqualify an absolutely normal urban performance. They have to disqualify their promoters. And to justify this plot, they manipulate data, they hide information, they poison the neighborhood. We are accused of facilitating the expropriation through a modification of the Law of the soil through the Law of measures - of course, noting that it has already been amended - and without counting on the fact that the Mayor Nidia herself — by the way, Nidia, not Lidia, I am grateful that she has already learned the name, Mr Bará — expresses: "Forcible expropriation is not a useful tool for me, and in this particular project I am defending that it must be by consensus. In Pereiras there has been agreement with the neighbors and in Tameiga I think there is room for the agreement." But they don't say anything about it. Of course, we are accused of having committed an environmental attack against one hundred and eighty thousand square feet of common mountain. Yes, they hide that the offer of Celta is a permut of 300 square feet of reforested mountain, twice the affected mountain. And, of course, Mr Bará doesn't hesitate to qualify as "voyers" those who try to drive -- literally -- "a commercial area in the metropolitan area of Vigo, either in Mos now or before in Mount Cabral." Of course, what Mr Bará hides is that it was the BNG and the PSOE who re-allocated Mount Cabral at the PXOM of Vigo — illegally approved — to allow that commercial use. Five thousand square meters! And now we're accused of giving legal shortcuts, when a timely change is being submitted to the environmental impact report, the same ones that saved that procedure -- i.e., that's right -- in the approval of the PXOM of the first city of Galicia. [[Applause]] You're about to give lessons of urban exquisiteity. You're not a reliable lord, Mr. Bará, you're a broken shrapnel, it's nothing else. Don't you remember what they did? And, of course, as they were busy attacking the PP and building fables, they forgot to talk about the small trade they were so concerned about at their initiative. Look: I believe that the serious risks facing small trade are now probably related to electronic commerce and new consumer habits. And the Union will continue to work, as it has done so far, with the hand of commerce, so that it will be competitive. But I also want to recognize that, as far as it refers to the defense of small trade, BNG does not prove to be all useless; in this, at least, it serves as a bad example. Look: they claim to be against the large surfaces because they harm small trade. Yes, when they ruled -- they observed -- they tripled the commercial surface of the major centers in Galicia, they tripled one hundred and twenty thousand square meters, one hundred and forty-five percent more than there was in Galicia. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows you a document to the members of the House.]] It's BNG mode. The BNG is against concerted education, so it increases concerts; it's against concerted health, then the Povisa Blonde; and as it's against commercial centers, it triples the surface. [[Laughter]] On the day that at this assembly you are committed to the castity vote, we have solved the demographic problem in Galicia. They always do the opposite of what they promise. It's a scandal, really. [[Applause]] It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u156	I'm done. Just briefly for Mr. Losada. In the case of the PSOE the problem is another, the problem is that you are in both your questions: in the dome and castration of the municipalities of the metropolitan area that are not close to them and in covering up the shame. You see what's the reason for your problem: "Abel Caballero has accused the PP today of wanting to take the shopping centers of Vigo" to "go to Mos." Ah, the malls are from Vigo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u157	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u158	Because of course, the project is very serious for small trade if one hundred and twenty thousand yards of commerce are built in Mos. If you do five hundred thousand in Vigo or if you approve, as you did, Vialia, Valadares, I will, etc., that's a job!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u160	Look: we're going to assume what the courts say, and I hope Vigo will be able to say exactly the same thing, which no one believes right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u161	Time's up. Thank you very much. Mr Bará Torres has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u162	Mr Pazos said at the beginning of his speech that he wanted to see if they put any in his drink. I think they have polluted you, which is what Mr. Paz drinks every day, and with her comes out here talking to this rostrum. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Of course, Mr Pazos says: BNG is against everything he doesn't like. Look, the problem here isn't that you don't like BNG, the question here is that you don't like Tameiga people. You said it here: the BNG also stood against Porto Cabral, supporting Cabral's neighborhood, because what was in the General Plan is not what you wanted to commit. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u163	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u164	Look: you said that Mrs. Pouco Nidia said that this had to be done with consensus and that in Tameiga's parish there was still a possibility for consensus. So I'm going to tell you what the parish of Tameiga says: a neighboring assembly of the Communards, of which two hundred fifty-three, two hundred forty-seven said no, three abstained and three voted against. You think they're coming? Do they care about this or do they want it? What do you want me to tell you about Tameiga's neighborhood? But I've also told you that the report of the Directorate General of Environmental Quality is absolutely devastating, based on reports from the Institute of Territorial Studies, the Directorate General of Urbanism, the Hydrographic Confederation, the Directorate General of Heritage, the Council of Vigo, the upper-rope... everyone tells you that this is a real barbarity. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The Territorial Ordering Guidelines say this is a barbarity, which will have an impact, which is not justified by the expropriation system, which is not justified by the public utility, which is not justified by the association of a commercial macrocenter to a sports city. If you want to make a sports city, there's land in Vigo Town Hall to start and to be able to do it. They get to work on this option. Look what I tell you, Mr. Pazos. And first, I want — without any precedent — to tell the spokesman of the Socialist Party, Mr. Losada, that we are going to accept his amendment — even if it is for the first time — because it raises a reasonable question; when reasonable things are put forward, we say yes. They want to do a study on the impact of large commercial areas: it seems to us that it is a brutal and destructive impact on the commercial fabric — in small trade, in traditional trade — on the life and cohesion of cities, of urban centres. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's not much to study there, but we're going to accept that amendment. And we want a sectoral plan to support traditional trade, local trade. If you didn't make it clear in this intervention, you're going to tell him again: if there were reasons to paralyze this defiance that was the golf course in Baredo, in Baiona, that you ended up saving in a drawer, here a hundred more times, and we won't consent, you won't consent to the neighborhood of Tameiga, you won't be allowed by the people of the small trade all around, who don't want this barbarity in the mountain of Tameiga and Pereiras, in Mos. We won't let them know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government on gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u166	This motion for a non-law has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u167	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. García Míguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u168	Good morning, gentlemen. During the time of debate of two non-lawful proposals in this chamber, fifty-five women are abused in Spain, ten women call 016, twenty women attend a police station to report their abuser and, in addition, there are two assaults or two sexual abuse. Data is not hopeful. There have never been as many murders in Spain with previous complaints in as little time as last September. I don't want to say with this that it's the Socialist Party, which is currently in the Government, that's responsible for this black September, but the reality is that I'm sure that every political party we're on this camera would do everything possible to end the violence if any of them were in the government. We're listening to a very hard speech here, of many attacks, and I think today's not the day of that, it's the day to talk against male violence. To that end, ladies and gentlemen, we invite you to join the photo, the photo of the People's Party, the photo that inspired the State Covenant against Male Violence, the photo of consensus, the photo of unity, the photo of effectiveness and the photo of coordination. These, and not others, are the basic pillars to end the machismo; let's not forget that the enemy is violence. Today I want to transfer all our support — and I believe that of all the groups of this chamber — our solidarity and also our commitment to work for all the victims — children and children, families, mothers, parents and people who have lost their lives — that we will fight and work hard against masculine violence. The whole society is called upon to reverse this situation. You came here to see the president of the Galician Observatory against Gender Violence, and, of course, the data reported that awareness and prevention are making their effects. The number of complaints has grown, with which, I believe, the fact that society as a whole is involved and that prevention and awareness-raising are doing their work is something very important to take into account. Of course, the People's Party, where it governs, shows and showed for the first time in Spain's history the search for consensus against macho violence without taking account of political color, listening, reaching agreements and seeking unanimity, as the pact is. Spain has the largest budget against male violence this year 2018, with four hundred and eight million euros. Remember that the budget in force is ours, it's the People's Party, gentlemen. When the first law against male violence was passed in Spain in 2004, we had an budget of ten million pesetas, not even one million euros, and today we speak of four hundred eight. There have never been so many resources to address the victims, nor has there ever been so much about diversity and LGTBI people, that they also suffer violence. There has never been so much training, awareness raising and prevention in all sectors. By the way, Mrs. Pierres, you did yesterday -- I think -- an appreciation that will cost you to retract, because you're lying. It says that of the forty-three professionals, of the forty-three technicians working in the Galician Union, who work in Vice-Presidentship and Equality in the issue of gender-based violence policies and the issue of equal opportunities for men and women, only four of them have equal training. I've already told you not, and you can't come here to discredit the work of the technical staff of the Galician Union and no official who's working in this field. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, let's not forget the context where we are: that of the pictures in capplons, where these talkers say that they would stabilize a woman to make her blood; that of the photos in the jets they believe private and that we all pay; that of the ministers' councils, yes, that of the ministers they don't like to work with women; that of the presidents of parliament who believe that they are equality, that they want to be protagonists and that they're worth everything. We don't want it, we don't want that way of working against macho violence. We are, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of a very serious subject, but the news of Mr. Sanchez's government, with this base we have, are not hopeful. Look, yesterday he reported the vice president that there was an agreement: the State Pact was adopted at the Congress of Deputies at the end of 2017 — all political groups except Podemos — and it was in January 2018 when the working groups, six working groups were formed to coordinate actions and develop the implementation and priority measures within this pact, about 300 measures of action. In these six working groups, in all of them, autonomous communities are represented. Galicia is in two groups: it is in group 2, of institutional response, coordination and network work, together with the autonomous communities of Aragon, Castela and León, Madrid, Extremadura and the Autonomous City of Melilla; and also our autonomous community is in group 6, which is of economic commitment and follow-up to the pact, where the autonomous communities of Andalucía, Aragon, Balearic Islands are. There we are. While this pact is in operation and is budgeted, the change of government takes place in June 2018, and from then on there is a rotation of 300 degrees, and not for good. The decree against male violence is published that they intend to change the Civil Code. That legislative chapuza had many headlines: "Alarm among jurists by decree." The political consensus is broken, because this decree was passed by the Government by the back door, without consensus with the autonomous communities, without consensus with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, nor with the judiciary, nor even with the state's security forces and bodies. The minister stated that the August decree makes an impeccable development of the measures of the pact, and this decree is a copy and literally grasps—that the PSOE knows a great deal about that—of the bill that Mrs Marta González presented to the Congress of Deputies; a bill precisely to carry out the measures of the pact. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was a bill, and if this is the case, there may be measures to propose to the other groups, there must be an agreement and there must be a vote in Congress. But if it is done through the decree, as did the Government, for there is no option to that. With which, they made a copy and caught, but two measures were missing that are very important. So now they have decided that it will be through a bill; the decree no longer. The bandages on this legislative issue are, really, to be very careful. The political work of the Socialist Party to carry out this pact against violence is a real tropic, ladies and gentlemen: they do not inform the autonomous communities of the measures put in place; they do the work in an arbitrary and uncoordinated manner, and the councils today do not know when, how, or how they will perceive, they do not know how much they will receive. And autonomous communities have the money, but because they don't want to meet to tell them if you can invest there, if you can invest here, or if in 2018 you have to invest it all... well, that's how we are. He did not meet again either Mr. Sánchez's Government with the working groups, there was no reconvened meeting to carry out that follow-up and that control and to guide the measures agreed on in the budgets. On 31 July, a sectoral meeting was convened to inform the autonomous communities of the amount of money they were receiving; on 4 August, the amount and economic resources that are provided for the State Pact were published in the BOE, and on 6 September a letter was sent to the Secretary-General of Equality to the Government Delegate for Gender Violence, because since nothing is known since 31 July, in the month of September, after seeing that the budgets were published, he requested a meeting, and he requested textually: we consider it essential to maintain a technical meeting, well with the members of the Working Group 6, in which the Autonomous Community is located, well with all the autonomous communities and that Government delegation in order to achieve the best management and destination of the funds. Well, the answer — almost a month later — of the Government's delegate is: the most appropriate forum for explaining and realising aspects contained in the resolution could be the Technical Commission on Equality and the Sectoral Conference on Equality. It is planned to convene the new Sectoral Conference on Equality in the near future. It's November 21st and you don't know anything about that meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want this confusion, we don't want this lack of information, we don't want plagiarism, we don't want fences, we don't want closed door policies. From the People's Party we call them to the cradle of our organic law of 2004, as the vice president said yesterday: unity, tending hand, coordination and consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, the photo of the People's Party against Gender Violence, which is an example not only in Spain, but in the rest of Europe, as many of the audiences in the Equality Commission have said in this Chamber, specialists in all areas. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u169	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u170	I, really, already at this point in the morning... we have a full afternoon and patience is beginning to wear me out. Here comes the spokesperson of the People's Party talking about that he's been listening to an attack speech all morning; no, Mrs. Míguez, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! 'Cause look, I'm going to tell you something that might surprise you, but it's just that the Welsh and the Galicians didn't choose us to wash their faces and they didn't choose us to applaud them, but to make what appears written in the laws to be fulfilled, to make this better and to move forward against macho violence, not to come here and applaud them when you could make a much greater effort. [[Applause]] And what you're here to talk to me about photos... of course, is that, exactly, that's part of the problem, that you're worried about the photos, about taking photos of acts, about taking pictures of careers I don't know that, rather than asking questions that should depend on a greater degree of you. We don't care about photos, we're concerned about moving forward in the field of macho violence. And it was shown here what the People's Party wanted, because yesterday Mr. Rueda was verbalizing some possibility of agreeing. See what you're doing with the amendment BNG tabled, because if they were less concerned about the photos, they could make a better proposal than they bring. Look: we, since BNG, have never done — contrary to what you do — an assessment of the quality of the proposals, because we understand that each group is autonomous and says what it really wants. But you, constantly, are based on criticism of opposition initiatives that we're fools and fools directly, that there's a lack of rigour, that I don't know that... permanently. And then you have the noses to come here, being the party of government, putting only duties on the state, as if you didn't have to do anything, when you have almost 100 percent of the competences and issues that affect macho violence, and come here with inconcracies and inaccuracies. So, what we do, by responsibility, even though we are already bored of talking about the State Pact, which really for Galicia would bring little, because you know -- and we talked about it yesterday -- that more than half of what comes into that covenant we already have the ability to do so and already comes into our law; yet, by responsibility, we improve your proposal. What do we propose? Well, questions to which Mr. Rueda made a verbal commitment yesterday to the BNG; to see what you do when you put it in writing. We understand that we need to increase the counties, because what we can get closer to this State Pact is economic resources; economic resources that, in addition, lack Galicia, because you are consistent with a system of harmful financing for our community. So we propose that criteria also be reviewed, because we understand that it is not the same as providing services in our country, the degree of dispersion that we have and the degree of aging that we have, that gives them elsewhere. Galicia has a specific reality. You used to say yesterday, "Galicia, different place"; I tried to -- and I lived The Resented too, by step -- but we therefore need adapted resources. You speak of the uncertainty of the municipalities, who do not know how and when they will receive. Well, yes, the misery they're going to receive already knows it. We want you to put on the table, as a country, that our municipalities already have an important underfunding, the more we will have to take into account such issues as dispersion. If it is good to negotiate the counties of the Autonomous Community, why is it wrong to negotiate the counties of the municipalities? Let's put proposals in our amendment, to the point that, of course, you were whipping them all morning that the government sub-delegated didn't invite them to a table. It seems wrong to us not to invite them, we've already said it; but, apart from saying so, you have to put it on the table. It's that his initiative is so timeless, despite being registered by the emergency process, they don't even ask the Galician Council to be on that table. Soon it's worth skating if they're not able to put the black questions about white to build. And also, what do we ask? Information and tracking that Galicia does with those resources. Yesterday Mr. Rueda made a commitment to do so, to see if you're going to vote again today against the fact that information is coming to this chamber, because it's something they don't like, too much, about reporting and reporting. Finally, we understand that with our proposal we make this initiative more coherent and bring about concrete measures and issues that would benefit our country. Now that you almost embrace independence in Madrid, because in Madrid the Socialist Party is ruling, because at least you are pushing this country to receive the economic resources it needs to combat masculine violence, and that the Spanish State no longer be a handicap for that area as well. BNG is consistent, Mrs. Míguez, we will demand the same from Mr. Sánchez as Mr. Rajoy, exactly the same. But that's not going to imply at any time that we forget that we have a much more advanced law than the state framework or that we forget that most of our competences belong to our sphere. Areas such as health, how teaching and a good part of justice depend directly on you, and there you should have a responsibility and a responsibility of conscience. I shouldn't come here, when there are positive proposals, say we've come to attack, etc., because we're a little tired. No, no, no, no, Mrs. Miguez. And if I was less concerned about the photos and more concerned about the male violence and about reaching agreements with this group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u172	...we have shown in the past that it is precisely and historically feminism, the left and the nationalism of this country that spurs the most advanced measures in the field of macho violence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. We greet the students and second grade students of the ESO of the IES First March, of Baiona, in Pontevedra, and also the teachers who accompany them. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u174	Thank you, President. I will admit that, in a way, I am a little marked with this initiative. Yesterday the spokesperson of the People's Party was precisely repudiating the Socialist Party to collect proposals put forward in other communities by this same group, and I am surprised when this initiative presented today by the People's Party emulates the one that this group presented in September 2017. The difference is that it was justified because there was not a single measure in place, not a single money made available to communities or municipalities and no criteria for sharing funds, because the pact was paralysed. [[Applause]] And yes, he gave a rotation of 300 degrees, Mrs. Míguez, which allowed the Socialist Party to unlock it. It is clear that in no case are we going to oppose proposals asking the State for everything in its hands to make the measures provided for in the State Covenant as soon as possible. We are also not going to oppose the fairer and more effective sharing of resources and resources, nor the establishment of monitoring mechanisms and contributions that can be exercised from the different autonomys for the good development of the pact. Having said this, I'm allowed to degrade every request, starting at the end. They are talking about reactivating the working groups created within the technical commission: on the one hand, it is surprising that this interest is born exactly on the date of November 5th — in addition to the urgency — and not before June 2nd; on the other hand, that they are talking about activating these groups, precisely when Galicia — which is actually part of two groups — has made a contribution to the economic commitment and follow-up of the pact through the eRoom virtual platform, which has been launched precisely to allow sharing, discussing and making decisions. So you yourself have verified that there is a channel for these groups to work. In any case, if it is understood that the groups are not working or there is also a lack of involvement, it seems good that Galicia, as an interested party, exercises this right to demand greater participation from all communities and agents involved in these working groups. With regard to the second request, they ask to specify the form and time limit on the formalization of the distribution of claims under the State Covenant against Gender Violence both to the autonomous communities and to local entities. Frankly, we do not understand that they make this request, also with a registration date on 5 November, when it was already resolved at the sectoral conference on 31 July, of which even yesterday the vice president himself acknowledged that he participated and confirmed that on 18 October that transfer of seventy-five percent of the funds of the autonomous communities was carried out. And by the way, with criteria for sharing that do take into account the specificities that BNG points to in its amendment; therefore already contemplated. Another thing will be to discuss, of course, whether those figures to be shared are those indicated in each of the criteria in the coming years. And if your doubt is how the transfer to the municipalities will take place, we can tell you that it will be very soon and that the only cause that has not already been done is because it will be done through a direct transfer, including the EVI, to each of the municipalities throughout Spain, which are something more than eight thousand; something that, as you can imagine, is bureaucratically complex, but in any case will be soon. We, in any case, if the intention of your request today refers to the 2019 funds, then we agree that it can be done as soon as possible. But for that it would be interesting to also urge your parliamentary group to support the adoption of budgets. Thus, the criteria for sharing this new money between the FEMP and the autonomous communities, as was done in July of this year, could be agreed at the Sectoral Conference on Equality. Finally, they call for the legislative reforms adopted and collected in the State Pact before the end of the year. You know that the deadline for this end is four years, and I also want to remind you that last year, where in our initiative we ask that the deadlines be shortened, you even asked to change it for a "that is fulfilled and agile to the extent possible the deadlines set," and we agree. I ask them to be serious and reasonable, Mrs Míguez, or we cannot support something that becomes frankly impossible. And please have a little political lust and don't talk about the lack of support or willingness to reach agreements on equality, when you systematically overthrow, and even insult, the opposition's proposals and initiatives and, with them, the real problems of the Greek women. And don't talk about adding to the People's Party's photos either. We'll stick to women's demands so that none of them have to see their picture on the cover of a television set. That's our real concern, not to go out in your photos. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u176	Thank you, President. Before we go into talking about our own initiative, we have to think about it. There have been a lot of equality debates in this plenary session, and it could have been useful to advance certain debates on equality issues. But unfortunately, it was not so, for the only one who served this fullness was to attack, to lie, to use demagoxy, and above all to hang up medals. And I, every time we talk about equality issues or feminist issues, I'd like to think about it: see if we recognize a little more the effort of all the women who went out to organize themselves -- not only this year but many years ago, because it's thanks to them that many women can be here today -- to see if we recognize the effort of all the women who have claimed many issues to end the violence of machos, and we stop placing so many medals on the political parties. Because the truth is, it's rather regrettable, especially when on March 8, women gave a pretty important lesson. [[Applause]] And then we'd have a lot of questions to say, answering Paula Prado and answering the president. In today I am not going to come in, I simply find the lies that can be said in parliamentary headquarters without any kind of smell. Today the People's Party has shown that everything is wonderfully well, that everything is being done. Well, it's been a lie for many years of public policy that the only thing they've been able to do was cut rights to many women. So, well, I'd give a lot of talk about it. But by entering the initiative itself, we believe that it is a good example of the cynicism of the People's Party when we talk about certain issues. It seems curious to us, at least, that after more than a year since the adoption of the State covenant had never been told in this plenary, absolutely nothing had ever been said to demand from the Government absolutely nothing, and that now, suddenly, when the government has changed curiously, we will demand everything. It seems to us great, we still think the same thing as when this state pact was approved. We kept thinking the same thing when the jobs started and when they finished. And months later reality gives us the reason: this state pact is totally insufficient, it is a state pact that did not include budgetary measures or timetable. And that's what we've been saying from the beginning: neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party cared about it, neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party wanted to budget it as it was due to this state pact. What seems curious to us, the truth is that it always accuses itself of the opposition to partying with these issues when the People's Party brings an initiative today — just when it changed the government of the state — to demand things that were not too much for months ago. We haven't talked about anything like this in months. The state pact was wonderful months ago, when the state pact had not yet taken any measure, when there was no single legislative development, when no euro had been set. 200 million euros were promised to be put in a memory of budgets that then had no real translation. So what are we talking about? Do you really want this state pact to be a state pact? It's not because many things are missing, so many times they say: We agree. Of course, if they say they agree on preventing, for example, macho violence, in which the prevention issue is fundamental but then in this deal they wanted to leave out the prevention issues, what are we talking about? It's no use here to say that prevention is fundamental if after the time of truth, when we're putting a specific question on paper, they literally tell us that prevention issues are not because this is not an equality pact, it's a pact against male violence. That didn't happen here in this Parliament, it happened in the Congress of Members. But then let's say it. I hope that when we move forward in the work of the Greek covenant, we don't have these concerns. And I also hope that it will serve as learning if we are now saying that the fundamental problem of the pact was that budget development and legislative development were not concrete. And when we're going to put our proposals here, I really hope we can implement budgeting and timing. And they're going to find us there, of course. We do not refuse to make covenants, which we do not value are the covenants that are only literature and that then do not have a real translation. And on this pact, as I said at the time and as we said when it was this issue, we did not agree to incorporate the fundamental, and the fundamental just, as we said, is to set a specific date. It's not worth saying how each of these measures will be carried out. That's what our parliamentary group most insisted on. We were accused of a lot of things for abstinence — which, by the way, we did not vote against, the pact went forward. But we abstain and just a year later reality gives us the reason. A year later, what has served this covenant to so many women in our country? Let us hope that now, once and for all, some of the measures begin to be taken and that once and for all budgets begin to be allocated to all these issues. But until now, until today, we have to say that this pact has been totally insufficient and it has not been a truly feminist and truly open pact. Because we also -- as I said at the beginning, and I insist again -- to finish up, we recognize something to the women who are mobilizing in our country, we count on them, we do a follow-up commission that makes some sense and that listen to the people who are outside. Let's listen to feminist women. Let's not do a follow-up commission that is solely made up of parliamentary groups. If we really want to make an open pact and that is a pact for society as a whole, we will also have to start socializing issues. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u178	Good morning again. I would like to thank Mrs. Pierres for speaking to the Government's delegate on Gender Violence, because she has just clarified here how the funds of local authorities will be allocated, how they will be distributed, where they will be distributed, and who will soon have them. We will be spokespersons for all the autonomous communities of this good news that has just given us the new spokesperson of the Government Delegation for Gender Violence in Spain. You talk about political abhorrence, and I think it's not a good time to talk about political abhorrence right now, because of your lack of consensus, coordination and rigour. The duties of the Council of Galicia, Your Honor, put the vice president himself yesterday, and not just the state, duties do not put them only to the state. They haven't read the headlines today. I'm going to tell you what measures you're going to put on the table, from the vice-presidentship, the General Secretariat of Equality towards the state pact: "Galice activates the plan against violence against men. There is a programme of 14 new measures to implement this year 2018"—because we have to spend the funds of this 2018— "The Galician Union will facilitate access to the housing of victims of violence. The children of the murdered women will have a compensation of 7.000 euros, a pioneer and universal measure for those under 25 years of age." As far as the Galician Nationalist Block is concerned, I'm surprised that you don't care about this pact, that you say it's a pact that won't even come. Look, I'm surprised you say this when you bring exactly five points into an amendment, it adds five points to the consideration of the pact because you see that it's insufficient what is being done. Something must matter! Yesterday I was talking about the Meseta, which has nothing to do with the Meseta. We have to ask the Meseta for more money, to ask for an increase, and to take into account the idiosyncrasy of our autonomous community for the distribution of money. That's where to see the Meseta, isn't it? Actually, we have to do it. [[Murmurs.]] But do you have to see it or don't you have to see it? For some things yes but for others no. I think we have to be very consistent on this subject. We all have to go hand in hand, as I told them. And, Mrs. Pierres, just a message. You said the Government was pushing in the same direction as the rest of the state. I think it's the other way around, the People's Party, the People's Party's Government, that's what's pushing against male violence in our autonomous community. So did the Government with Mr. Mariano Rajoy, with budgets that never existed in the history of Spain, with an important bet for the state pact, with 408 million euros against macho violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u179	Thank you. About the amendments, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u180	We have a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u181	Is there a transaction? All right! Perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now, when the time comes for the vote, we'll see how it goes. She told me there was a transaction, that on this last non-law proposition there was a transaction. You'll see what the deal is and what the situation is. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u182	Let's vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on non-law proposals. The first is that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the action to be taken by the Galician Union to combat gender-based violence against women aged 65. Amendment by the Group of the European People's Parliamentary Group and not by the Group of the European People's Parliamentary Group is accepted. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry. Let's stop this. I'll stop it, but I have a problem here with technology. I'm another generation, I've already taken this a little far off, out of this thing. Mrs. García Míguez, you ask for a point vote. Mrs. Blanco, do you accept your vote on points, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u183	I'd like to know what points the People's Party wants to vote on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u184	Ask him which points you want to split.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u185	The 1, 2, 3 and 4 together, and the 5 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u186	Give a voice to Mrs. Blanco's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u187	Let's see if I understand correctly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u188	The 1, 2, 3 and 4 in a block, and the other one apart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u189	You're telling me, Mrs. García Míguez, that she wants to vote on all the points of the Socialist Party's initiative, which deals with the detection of specific protocols to serve people over 65, and against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u190	No, no, let's see. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u191	And a point of an amendment in favor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u192	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u193	That's not voting in favour of the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u194	Don't! Silence! Mrs. Blanco, this is what I'm up to. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, Mrs. Blanco, you don't have the floor. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Blanco, you are no longer in use of the word. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that's it! The question is very specific. Don't you accept? [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] But if I ask you if you accept 1, 2, 3 and 4, and 5 separately, tell me yes or no. The other was already part of the debate. That's it! [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] He didn't accept it. [[Protests.]] No, that's it! [[Strong murmurers.]] A point of order was not accepted. We vote. [[Strong murmurers.]] Attention to votes; otherwise, errors may occur later. Vote of the transactioned text on G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to combat gender-based violence against women aged 65. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u195	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms Luca Chao, on the implementation and application by the Greek Government of the regulatory and regulatory measures necessary to avoid, from the 2018-2019 course, the requirement by school centres of different uniforms for each sex. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted and not that of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] None? I understood yesterday that I was accepting that of the Block. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Don't you? [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Then I don't understand. So you don't accept any amendments. But it's your gift for the fact that, if you do, you're going to accept it, you're not going to drop it. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] I say! Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the implementation and application by the Italian Government of the normative and regulatory measures necessary to avoid, from the 2018-2019 course, the requirement by schools of different uniforms for each sex. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u196	The following non-legislative proposal is from the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Jacobo Moreira, on the requirement by the Greek Government to the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra to carry out the procedures necessary for the implementation as soon as possible of the urban transport service. There's a transaction that made me come in. Do you read it, Mr. Moreira, or do I read it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u197	Yes, it is simply accepting the amendment of the Socialist Party and adding it as point number 2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u198	To accept as point 2 the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Correct Vote of the transactioned text on G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and eight other Members, on the requirement by the Government of Greece to the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra to carry out the procedures necessary for the implementation, as soon as possible, of the urban transport service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u199	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to protect victims of gender-based violence, minors and witnesses in the judiciary. Is the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group accepted? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He accepts the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At sea, on the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to protect victims of gender-based violence, minors and witnesses in the judiciary. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u200	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to improve primary care in the Galician Health Service. There are no amendments. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the performances that must develop the Galician Union to improve primary care in the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u201	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas, on the increase by the German Government of the county specifically intended for the prevention, treatment and fight against violence until at least 1% of the total in the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2019. No amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the increase by the Government of Greece of the county specifically intended for the prevention, treatment and fight against violence against men until at least 1% of the total budget bill of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u202	And now we vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís Bará, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the request to approve the timely amendment of the Urban Plan of the Council of Mos to carry out a sporting and commercial project in the parishes of Tameiga and Pereiras. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. Vote of the transactioned text on G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr.Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the request for the timely amendment of the Urban Plan of the Council of Mos to carry out a sporting and commercial project in the parishes of Tameiga and Pereiras. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u203	And finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Ángeles García Míguez, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the Central Government on gender violence. There seems to be a transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No transaction? So if there's no transaction, nothing, you have to vote and point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if there is no transaction... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. García Míguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mrs. García Míguez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u204	We would accept an amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, an amendment for amendment and addition. We would include the two points within our proposal. So the amendment of... it was, in fact, an amendment to the Socialist Party's addition... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u205	Let's see, please, I didn't understand very well now. I'm a little confused today too
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u206	There is no transaction and we accept the amendment of the Socialist Party's addition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u207	But I used to, when I asked him, he said there was a transaction. And there's no transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u208	No transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u209	Well, if there's no transaction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u210	Yes, of course, the PSOE amendment we accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u211	But then, if you accept the amendment of the PSOE, you have to say so. Do you accept the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u212	In point 1 there is an amendment to the PSOE and in point 2 there is an amendment to the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u213	Do you accept both things?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u214	The amendment of the PSOE accepts it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u215	Accept the amendment of the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u216	The two points of the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u217	Then accept the two points. Okay. Is this correct? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the block doesn't accept anything? I'll ask.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u218	No, not from the block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u219	All right, all right. Let's vote then... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? What figure? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've asked. Now I ask again. There is nothing to be said about this, too, so that it is clear. Now we're going to vote. We have to repeat this: we voted on the initiative with the addition of the amendment to the PSOE... [[Mrs. García Míguez asks for the floor.]] See, yes, again, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u220	I'm sorry. The Galician Nationalist Block would accept point 4, point 6 and point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u221	Or 2, 4 and 6?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u222	The 2, 4 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u223	Like 2, 4 and 2? It's going to be 2, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u224	In the addition amendment. [[Murmurs.]] It's so torn apart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u225	Silence, please, silence. We're going to try to clarify this, because, of course, if we all get complicated, it's still harder. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos asks for the floor.]] Madam Presas, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u226	The BNG does not accept Mrs. Míguez's discount, which was contrary, in addition, to the commitments it acquired in this House, Mr. Rueda yesterday. Therefore, we cannot incorporate into a transaction the parts of our amendment without counting on our welcome. So what will have to vote will be the People's Party's proposal with the Socialist Party's add-on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u227	All right, got it. That's what we have to vote for. We voted on the proposal to incorporate amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of the transactioned text on G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government on gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u228	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the agenda, which corresponds to interpelerations. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. in Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the provision of human resources and materials for emergency services in hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u229	To formulate this question, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u230	Thank you, President. Initially, a consideration, because it reaches the Council of Health itself. In the morning we attended a series of statements by the Presidency regarding the protection of pregnancy in the public health system. And I want to lie, obviously, that demonstration of ignorance on the part of the president of the Galician Union, because he's forcing himself on forced days. And as for family protection and reconciliation, on the one hand, there is no reconciliation, there is an obligation for forced newspapers. I have to remember here what we have already said in the previous plenary session, that of those 65 hours that you forced a person for five days at an ongoing point of attention. But besides, here voted against increasing the number of midwives. I want to remember that we have provinces, like Ourense, where there are 8 primary care coaches for over 160,000 women. And so what we've come to say here to this House when there's really no proper protection no longer to all women but not even to pregnant women in our country! But, given the interpellation itself, we have a complicated situation, Mr. Almuña, and that is why we bring this issue back to plenary today. We have a public management, their public management in front of the Health Council, which is making water, Mr. Almuña. The problems persist within 061, with a situation, a conflict, that you refuse to fix. And there is, in this budget we are debating, exactly budgeting to satisfy that discharge, that freezing, of the collective agreement. We're wondering what they're going to do, and if they're going to put the workers and the workers on strike forever. The strike remains also at the continuing points of attention throughout the country, Mr. Almuña, without you moving one finger to reach a real agreement; a strike that has already expanded, at least, until mid-December. And that strike is your responsibility, when they're not even covering the minimum services. And we also have a perpetuity in a conflict like that of Povervisa, in which, as much as they try to achieve, the problem is there and it remains; a problem for the employment of that center and obviously a problem of health care, which could have been given in public health, if you wanted, from the first minute. Not to mention the rest of the problems in the rest of the centers we have; for example, the one related to the accumulation — and this is already related to what happens in the CHUS — of people in the emergency centers of downtown Salné because you continue to refuse to open the third floor of the center. So you have our public health, because your management, Mr. Almuño, makes absolutely water. We wonder what he's going to do. It makes so much water that they just don't want to listen to people who suffer from those cuts in health research commission. And in the CHUS, at Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex, after a year of warning the workers and the workers of the situation in which the conditions of work were being given, you push the templates to take a strike. And we started this week on the second week off, Mr. Almuña. And unfortunately, we have to bring this problem back here because not only has the problem not been solved but we have an absolutely intolerable situation in the service this week; a service, by the way, in which you apply a minimum of 100 percent services that are not covered either during the day off, as it happens at the continued attention points. And that's because these templates work every day or most of the days under minimum. They've been claiming the increase in professionals for a long time. That's how they were two days ago, the strike started, Mr. Almuña, the emergency service corridors. Some emergency corridors in a center where you also have, or keep, closed down Gil Casares' internal medicine plants. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a picture from the gallery.]] This is irresponsible, Mr. Almuinho. It happens in Salnés, it happens in Compostela, it happens in Coruña. How can there be units and beds closed in our public health system and so love the patients in the emergency corridors! One day off, minimum services of one hundred percent and serious people in emergency corridors! They sent the workers a letter on the day of strike. I'm going to read a stratum, so that it's not what we moved, but it's the workers' voice, because you don't let them appear in the health investigation commission. "Today — two days ago — at 19.15 hours, 13 patients of different severity — most of them advanced in age — were placed in wheelchairs and paddies in the corridor of access to border corridors waiting for more than two hours to receive urgent attention. A total of 10 patients were in the working areas awaiting admission to the plant" — 10 and 45 beds closed in Gil Casares!—. "From which, 5 had already a bed assigned. The care circuit is again stopped at the expense of the patients, who eventually end up in the corridors waiting to be cared for, because hospital beds are still unavailable at the moment they are demanded for the optional staff of the service. It's not admissible, paying attention to the fundamental right of urgent care collected in the Galician Health Act"—of workers and workers. Despite the strike of the service staff, it continues to deny the increase in the minimum staffing of optional staff, nursing, auxiliary and required capacitors. And they explain more situations like this. We have a lot of letters like this that have been sent to them to vote on many occasions, and some mail, Mr. Almuña, on the day the last person died in the emergency corridors of the clinic, warning of the collapse of the situation. Second week of strike, a year of demand for increased personnel, and we remain absolutely equal and without you taking care of that situation. We know they sat down to negotiate. It's a step forward, better than nothing. They already recognize the strike committee. All right, Mr. Padre, but you have to meet those demands. In the previous plenary session, he voted against the minimum that the professionals were asking for, which was simply to provide for the emergencies of the material and human resources demanded by the professionals. He voted against, there were no specific points and how many they had to be. And here, the People's Parliamentary Group voted against despite the fact that the workers and the workers were listening and seeing the full. They can't be here today because they're meeting precisely by valuing the situation they have and the offer you've made, which is absolutely insufficient to cover emergencies that are no longer saturated when there's a flu peak, is that they're saturated most of the year; otherwise, obviously, these professionals wouldn't protest. And, look, there was a problem of human resource failure in the emergency service at the clinic -- and of human resource failure globally, with resources, besides closed, like these internal medical beds -- that since it started with this problem more acutely, and since we have also Mrs Eloína, we have been resigning from two service coordinators, five nursing supervisors and two area coordinators, Mr Almuína. You tell me if that doesn't obey the reduction of staff, staff cuts, or non-staff enlargement, if you prefer, Mr. Almuña. How can one give proper assistance in these conditions if saturation repeats throughout the year, not even in the months of increasing frequency? There is no functional plan of the center, there are not enough captors, there is basically no nursing professionals and nursing assistants; neither are there the optional ones and the optional ones and, of course, they are not covering even the casualties and permits, as is the case in the rest of the Galician Health Service. We ask you here today, once and for all, to clarify when these material and human resources are provided with this emergency service at the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex; if you consider it normal to have the service in these conditions throughout the year, and even when a strike is declared, Mr. Almuña; if you consider it normal not to update the teams of the centre, you can work with teams of ten years; and if you consider that you can not meet the demands of the professionals, wait for one year and wait for them to strike because the situation is totally unbearable in this sense. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a document from the gallery.]] I think you, and the Council team, shouldn't be able to take any longer the risk of having an undermanned emergency service. Because the professionals, Mr. Almuña, are very good, they are magnificent — you repeat them in all interventions — but they don't have four arms. They do everything, absolutely everything, what they can. And there will come again a time when there is a circumstance in which a person's situation is in danger because all the media are busy. We don't want to run the risk of getting to that situation, just as we don't want to run it at the points of continuous attention. We don't want that same risk taking place at the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex, in the CHUS emergencies. We wonder why you, in this situation, don't put any more personnel. They haven't done it since the beginning. We had to strike Monforte too so that you could get more professional. Why do you have to wait for this situation? Why do you have to wait for three complaints at the three-debate prosecutor's office, Mr. Almuña? Why? You can't fix the past, but you can put the means right now to solve this situation. And I'm done. We also wonder why these professionals, those you deny constantly expanding the media, if you also deny them that they can appear in a commission to explain the situation they live every day, that neither I nor obviously you are suffering. Nothing else, for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u232	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia, up to 7,000 emergencies a day, 3,000 in hospital services. The degree of satisfaction of the population is high. According to the health barometer and the latest data we have, 84.7% of the population believes that attention was either good or very good. The average in the National Health System is 78.1%; that is, we are 6.6 points above the state average. And, of course, yes, I have to value all the emergency professionals in the Galician Health System. I think they're excellent, they've done a great job. And, of course, since the Administration we have supported the improvement of services. The development of emergency services in recent decades is an indisputable issue: structural reforms, staffing, seasonal contingency plans, different processes, clinical pathways, alternative circuits... so, in structural reforms we have renewed and strengthened the infrastructures of emergency services and followed up with improvements. In recent years, expansions and re-creation units have been carried out in the emergency services of some hospitals, such as the CHUAC or the Salnés Hospital; improvements in the Montecelo emergency service; short-term CHOU emergency dependent area; space clearance at the Marine Hospital for screening. The emergency expansion of the Barbanza Hospital will also begin shortly — in fact, we estimated that in a month. But in addition, protocols have been put in place to pay attention to time-dependent pathologies. As it was planned a few years ago, we already have what are the codes of infarction, stroke and sepsis — the last to integrate these protocols. As far as the emergency service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago is concerned, it is dimensioned both in physical structure and in human and technical resources to adequately address a certain number of patients. The reference population is 379,683 inhabitants, of which 335.191 are adults and 44.492 pediatrics, logically included those in the northern area of Pontevedra that are cared for in the CHUS health area. In CHUS the total area built in the emergency area is 38,800 square meters, of which 3,460 are adult emergencies and 340 square meters are for pediatric emergencies. With regard to its staffing to develop activity — as far as the structure is concerned — the emergency service has an area of adults who have two screening consultations, nine consultations — six multi-purposes — one specific for otorrin, another for ophthalmology, another for traumatology and one for mental health, 4 resuscitation boxing posts for critical patients, 6 monitoring boxing posts, 1 gypsum room and cure room, 29 conventional examination boxes, 24 observation boxes with 6 isolation, 7 boxes for patients level II and 20 silons for treatment. Paediatric emergencies consist of a screening consultation — recently started — 3 multi-purpose consultations, a critical resuscitation room, 7 exploration boxes and a gypsy room. The obstetric and xinecological emergency area has a query and an exploration box. As for the equipment, the service is currently equipped with 15 multiparametric monitors, 8 defibrillators, 6 respirators, 5 beep equipment for non-invasive ventilation, 9 electrocardiographs, 9 tensiometers, 9 pulsiometers, 4 gasometers and 1 ultrasound. This equipment always responds continuously to the needs of assistance or wear and/or damage caused by its use. With regard to care activities, the emergency service of the Hospital Complex of Santiago attended in 2017 to 154,762 patients; 122,678 adults, 80%, and 32,084 paediatric patients, 20%. During the first nine months of 2018, 116,772 emergencies were dealt with. This is about an average of 427 emergencies a day, compared to 424 in 2017; that is, there was only an increase in these first months of the year of three emergencies a day regarding the same period last year — two emergencies, specifically adults and more pediatrics. If we analyze the staffing of the CHUS emergency service, it should be noted that for adult emergencies there are the following personnel: 1 emergency coordinator — at this time vacancy by resignation, for personal reasons — 44 optional, 7 nurses/ nurses, 44 ACEE and 35 cellphones. The distribution per turn is: 12 doctors, 14 nurses, 9 ACEA and 7 janitors in tomorrow's shifts; 12 doctors, 14 nurses, 10 ACEA and 8 janitors in the afternoon; and 6 doctors, 12 nurses, 7 ACEA and 6 janitors in the evening. If the demand for care is very high, it is always reinforced with more personal according to needs. Thus, during the months of greater demand, those who coincide with the flu epidemic, always reinforce. He last reinforced himself with one more doctor on the afternoon shift, two nurses/ nurses, two more TCAE on the morning shift, and one locker on the afternoon shift. As for the staffing of pediatric emergency personnel, it has 3 pediatricians, 7 nursing professionals, 6 ACEA and 1 pediatric ICU-shared supervisor. This data assumes that each optional emergency care facility serves an average of 2,992 patients per year, which, divided between 220 working days, is a measure of 13.6 patients per optional day. Scientific societies, both Spanish and international, estimate that an emergency physician is needed for every 4,445 emergencies/year. Our emergency optional ratio is substantially lower than that, and similar estimation can be made for the rest of the professionals. Finally, although there is no recent survey of satisfaction — this year will take place — the number of claims submitted in 2017 was 175, which means 0.11 % of the 154,763 assistance. That is why we estimate that the CHUS emergency service is adequately equipped with both professional and material resources to provide urgent health care that requires patients with adequate quality and safety standards. But I must add that, after the remodeling of the service carried out in September, with an extension of seven more boxes, a functional evaluation is being carried out by a working group composed of professionals in the emergency room themselves. As far as electromedicine equipment is concerned, continuous response always depends on the needs of care and when there is wear-out or deterioration in use. Electromedical maintenance includes the exploitation of data from all contracts: high technology, general electromedicine, anesthesia, ventilation and radiology. The maintenance activity referred to in the CHUS emergency is the programmed and periodic on the electromedicine equipment in order to ensure its proper functioning, subject to the manufacturer's standards, the legal regulations in force and the experience in its management. As for the replacement of material, in 2018, 2 electrocardiographs, 4 head monitors, 2 transport respirators, 3 tensiometers, 3 pulsemeters, 13 treatment arms chairs — electric –, 20 wheelchairs and 10 pads were rejected. We must point out that in the entire emergency area of the Clinical Hospital, during the last ten years, the following reforms have been made: the radiology reporting area, in January 2008; emergency filters, in September 2009; emergency consultation, November 2011; emergency observation expansion, in January 2012; emergency box monitoring, in April 2012; TAC reform for the installation of the new TAC, in November 2015, pediatric emergencies, reform in November 2017; and the last one that commented on the expansion of 7 boxes more, in September, a few weeks ago, as I say, a few weeks ago. As I said earlier, the structural remodeling of the service has made the functional study of needs that we need at every moment. This does not mean that in our emergency services every day of the year we are reassessing needs, due to the urgency character, which by definition is not planable. The management of human resources is carried out by the management of the centre taking into account the care needs at every moment, and as previously said, different professional categories are strengthened, as may be in the winter period coincident with the flu. In addition, we are prepared to respond to any suggestions from Sergas professionals who contribute to improving the care provided to our patients. Therefore, the emergency services of hospital centers are dimensioned, both in physical structure and in human resources, to adequately address the specific number of patients. And we also have the selection of Manchester, of international use, which classifys patients according to the severity and need for assistance according to a color code and which marks the standard times of assistance. The Galego Health Service has high-quality professionals and training, as well as quality infrastructure and equipment, working with protocols and information systems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u233	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u234	...that allows the development of your work in the best conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u236	Mr. Almuña, to the critical box we thought we were going to have to go all after the inventory we just read, to hide a little. For a moment I thought Mr. Aboal was making the inventory here in the House. [[Applause]] I'd like you to really answer the questions that we brought here and not tell us milongs. Because if you now disallow your positions and directors within the Health Council, it's your problem and not mine. We have, of course, minutes — which you too have — in which the Director of Assistance Processes recognized the low staffing of staff over a year ago, more than a year ago, Mr. Almuña! If you want to discredit them now, as Mr. Feijóo has discredited Mrs. Eloine saying that she will know why there is a problem there and that it is necessary to resolve it and explain it to emergency professionals, for, look, it is her problem and not our problem, and not that of emergency professionals. It's recognized by the management of the centre itself as a low number of emergency professionals. And he promised them a mile on several occasions: that the nursing assistants would be increased, that the staff would be increased in general and, after that, that there would be a remodeling of the operation of the service. They were planted to work for teams, and they said, "Okay, but we're going to need more professionals. Professionals didn't increase. Well, yes, a nursing supervisor. Then, I don't know how many resignations I've had. And, of course, the coordinator is not for personal reasons. Obviously, what's going to put on the letter? Who wants to work under those conditions? Who can organize a service in which you don't put any means? Who's holding that pressure? Two area coordinators and five nursing supervisors have already resigned. Lord Man, something will be wrong. Or do you really think the service is right, that the professionals are enough? If you're not going to answer the question, at least answer one question, the only question: why do you think the workers are on strike? It would be nice if you answered that question, because you say it's all right, and yet workers and workers have been protesting and demanding media for over a year. You don't listen, you have to go to the strike, the situation is that -- I just showed you the photos of the runners two days ago -- the situation is the same as when several people died in the emergency service, and it's all the same. And, look, I'm going to read to you again -- what I've done in the previous plenary -- what the workers and the workers say, "It's been about a year since the Agency announced to us the intention of carrying out a functional reorganization of the services, which would imply a structural reorganization of physical space and a drastic change in the current patient care circuits. That little plan has to do with what you're now walking about, creating chaos among the workers themselves. The work teams, which were the main pretext that was used, are now losing force, because the negative obstinacy by the management of increased personnel prevents the creation of such equipment in a stable way. We have just seen with perplexity various information in which the works of the center are praised as an important gain of space translated into an increase of assistance box that will allow greater agility in care, without increasing professionals to be able to care for people" — it's a magnificent news, just putting a couple of tabiques is already solved the problem of lack of staff in emergencies." "From the impression" -- from the workers -- "that the managers of the complex only dispose of the dissemination in the media of images showing the queues of patients in the emergency corridor. And that's why they do works in order to find new spaces where they can be placed. It is absurd and irresponsible to think that the quality of care can be improved depending only on the restructuring of physical space without this being accompanied by the increase in human resources." You did the same thing in the Coruña and elsewhere. This situation cannot be endured, Mr. Almuinho. At least answer that question: why do the clinician emergency professionals strike? Answer us, and he'll probably respond to what you have to do from now on. Because this situation, and that you come here laughing at professionals, is totally insatiable. You can't say here that the service is dimensioned to the attention they have, because the workers and the workers are on strike and complain that they can't anymore. And, of course, you wouldn't go to a strike if the corresponding services existed. I'll remind you — because the time is over — of the mail that was sent on the day the last person died, that the Prosecutor's office has sent and the judge has opened up proceedings. Please note: "We currently have 13 serious patients in the inlet corridor, 26 patients with signed entry occupying the observation room, zero workplaces in observation cubicles, 1 site in monitors and 2 critics. This is the description of a third-level hospital emergency, one day more. How will you meet the demand of the day?" This is an e-mail sent at 14.16, and an hour later a person died in the emergency corridor. Mr. Almuña, answer the question: Why are you on strike? What are you going to do to solve this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close the interrogation by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u238	Good morning again. Of course, part of his intervention is provocation, saying that I laugh at professionals. Not at all. The only thing I have to talk about is, of course, the excellent professionals we have in the system. You're laughing at professionals and many other people. Of course, I think respect should be kept towards people, and you know that, if you call a person "mister", it will be with the name and not with the name. That's a form of disregard for a person who's working in health services. If you want, I call it "Mrs. Eva," but I don't think it's right. So, I'm talking about Mrs. Solla, I'm not talking about Mrs. Eva. So I think a little bit of respect is missing. And look, the inventory I have to say, in the time I have to expose, is because, unfortunately, you know the emergencies of hospitals in our autonomous community by the photos you're going to take on the facades. So you take a lot of pictures on the facades so they know you're working. But you don't work in health taking pictures on facades, but actually trying to improve the day-to-day functioning of our system. And, of course, you can't teach anything at all. Look, patients are always cared for; firstly, through a process of screening—implementation completed in all the Greek hospitals in 2013—or, depending on this, by the established priority. The distribution of patients according to the levels of triage in the University Hospital Complex of Santiago shows that in 2017 the highest percentage was concentrated in those chosen as yellow — which are level III, or urgent — who assumed 51%, and the green — level IV, or normal, i.e., non-urgent —, which accounts for 36.71% of the patients selected. The patients chosen in blue and white constituted approximately 5% of the emergencies treated in that area. In the period from January to September 2018 the distribution of patients is very similar. Thus, the highest percentage is also concentrated in the yellow electors, which assumed 49.44%, and the green ones account for 37.42% of the selected patients. The patients chosen in blue are around 4.9 % this year. In addition, it meets standards of delays established according to the urgency level assigned by Manchester: zero minutes for level I, or red; 10 minutes for level II, or orange; 60 minutes for level III, yellow; 120 minutes for level IV, or green; and 240 minutes for level V, or blue. In this regard, and by emergency levels, the most urgent patients — red, or level I — were cared for without any delay. The patients classified as oranges were treated with an average wait of 12 minutes. Yellows, with an average delay of 44 minutes; and green patients were treated in an average of 51 minutes. On the other hand, in the Galego Health Service we are aware of the importance of primary care, which was able to achieve an emergency resolution level at the continuing care points around 91.28%. In addition, we have other programs that allow patients not to have to approach hospitals to be cared for, including Telea Program and home hospitalization. [[Hado]] And I can't forget how important support he makes with his job on 061. By the way, he's talking about the 061 strike. I don't know if you realize that the 061 strike for the road transfer ended a week ago. So I don't think you've updated that data. Of course, Your Honor, we work to adapt resources to the needs of each moment in order to provide adequate assistance to our patients. We've been through a lot, but we're also aware and we've taken note of everything that can improve our health care for the future. All right, you commented on the figures I'm presenting, which say that from 2017 to 2018 there's no significant increase in the number of emergencies. Not even the complexity of the emergencies. And what was established with the new coordinator was a new structure within the service, not an extension, but a restructuring that gave rise to a new functional response from the workers. And at the moment, the strike is mainly done because — we say — functional restructuring does not work properly. And what they're working on right now, still on strike, that working group, is actually doing this functional study. Because just as we're talking about how the structure of an emergency service is important, whether or not it's how we do that reception and treatment function for our patients. And, of course, there are more than enough experiences in our health system to improve that situation. And that's what they're trying to do, of course, the workers who are involved in the service with the management of that hospital. In the near future, we hope that this situation will be fully resolved and that they will continue to provide the service, as they have done all these years and will continue to do so, all the emergency professionals, both primary and hospital services, in the public health system in Greece. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to projects of waste management and treatment facilities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u239	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u240	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning to all Members. Welcome, Counselor. First of all, I want to greet the people representatives of neighbors and neighbors both of Casalonga and of Miramontes, in Teo and Santiago de Compostela, because they were and are directly affected by the very issue that brings us to this interpellation today. This is one of the spaces where the installation of a waste treatment plant in Casalonga was projected. And this is part of the Miramontes dump in Grixoa. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows a picture from the gallery.]] We speak of Casalonga and Miramontes because they are the most famous, most famous, media examples in recent times, but in many parts of Galicia there are companies that are promoting waste management facilities, in rustic soil or near residential areas, which have a negative impact — to our understanding — on the environmental conditions of the surroundings. They are unsecured projects for the protection of the environment, and sometimes they even have restoration projects that are unreliable and not effective. So much so — I wanted to give you an example — that the construction project of this treatment plant — a dump, after all — in Casalonga, in Teo, said it was basically to produce biogas — would accumulate about 90,000 tonnes of waste, and expressly said that it was impossible for them to establish a detailed restoration plan given the impossible forecast of the evolution of local and national socio-economic conditions. Home!, we don't want any installation projects of any kind to come with a crystal ball, but more than talk about forecasting the evolution of local and national socio-economic conditions could bring. I didn't bring anything else. And the unfortunate thing is not that a particular company — which only seeks its economic advantage — does not care about restoration and hence environmental degradation; that's not important. The important thing and the unfortunate thing is that it seems like you as a government don't care too much, and I'm also going to set an example for you. In 2018, in this economic exercise, in September this year, we only executed 10% of the restoration of abandoned mining activities in our country. Only 10% of the restore run! That means you're not too much for the restoration either -- I don't know if it's for those crystal balls -- and therefore for avoiding environmental degradation. The neighbors and the neighbors of Casalonga were and are worried because, even though that project ended thanks — and it must be remembered — to the negative report of the Teo Town Hall on the urban compatibility of that project, they have a sword of Damocles on top of their head exactly the same. Neighbors and neighbors of Grixoa are also concerned — not only those of Grixoa, the whole of Santiago is concerned — because there are a lot of treatment plants — they are called waste treatment and management plants, and really, I repeat again, they are nothing but landfills, and they are in fact so worried that a group of platforms has been formed to publicly denounce this situation. As I said before, the neighbors and neighbors of Grixoa are worried, but the prosecutor's office is also concerned, the Galician Environmental Prosecutor's Office. And so that's how — these are the pleasures that the Prosecutor's Office opened on October 23 — which opened up some criminal investigations for the possible commission of a crime against the environment, and it's not a baladi thing or something that you don't have to take into account. The prosecutor read the inspection papers that his technicians, the counsellor's technicians, and concluded the prosecutor that, according to the information of these technicians and also provided by the company itself when the advisor asked him, the amount of organic matter that is being deposited in the Miramontes dump almost 30% — organic matter — when the initial construction project was not or the integrated environmental authorisation, which was granted to them in 2008, for organic waste. That wasn't the idea, at least to a limit, which is the possible limit that marks the law; of course, never squeezing 30%. What we're wondering is if you've read the records of your technicians. Because the prosecutor received this complaint that came out of the work and the pockets of the citizens, the neighbors and the neighbors — because they didn't do it to them, they did it — after we gave them the information that we asked the Government and that they were asking for outside. They went to the prosecutor's office, took this complaint and got the prosecutor to open criminal investigation proceedings based on his own records. You didn't read them, or, if they read them, they didn't do anything; of course, they never went to the Prosecutor's office, because, of course, they should be all right for you. Why didn't you go to the prosecutor's office, counselor, exactly like the neighbors and the neighbors? You have it much easier, much easier than your neighbors! And above all, we must not forget that it is the Council of Galicia that has to control potentially dangerous or contaminating activities, it is a duty of the administrations. And that's exactly why the Prosecutor's Office, in those proceedings, asks you to send a report, in particular the department has to tell you why it comes expressly, and probably before the end of this month you're going to have to submit a report - the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality. We are concerned, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because you are not fulfilling the mandate of the 2016 Land Law, which speaks of the utmost of preserving your own values, a commitment determined by the sustainable exploitation and management of natural resources. We are concerned that you do not control waste management and treatment facilities in rustic soils or in soils near residential areas, and precisely the opening by the Prosecutor's Office of criminal offences is the obvious proof. You don't care. We are concerned that the current legislation is bringing back into the city halls to report on company applications, on business projects. And you certainly know -- because you have also run a relatively small council -- that there are municipalities that do not have enough means to issue those reports; I no longer say economic means, or even appropriate technical means. We're worried that there's no interest on the part of the Government in legislating to remove those installations from the nuclei that are populated. We're worried because you don't control how the facilities are in the country. And — I repeat again — the clear example was that of Miramontes. You send the technicians, in this case there are inspection records for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018; and there are several of them, of which you usually do, but they didn't do anything else, there was no subsequent control. And finally, we're worried because you don't have any agreement with the municipalities precisely to facilitate the preparation of these reports; mainly those who don't have the means to do it. Counsellor, this is not the first time this issue has come to Parliament. We brought it to the committee, and even in the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Prado herself said that there was a possibility of reaching an agreement, but we did not agree because it was the day you entered the board and there was no one who could answer whether or not you accepted the agreement. We asked questions in plenary to the former advisor, it's true. And you know we've even registered a bill to amend the Land Law and be able to resolve this situation permanently. But we know that the processing of a bill is a bit slow, it takes some time in Parliament, and right now there can be on the tables of the Town Councils' landfill installation projects, for the concern of neighbors and neighbors, which the municipalities will necessarily have to deal with if they do not want to pre-empt. A transitional and rapid solution could be the modification of Galicia's Industrial Waste Management Plan — which is this — simply by the removal of a word. In general, in paragraph 9.1.3(a) of the plan, general placement criteria, if the word "preferably" is removed for the installation of these landfills, we would resolve and avoid sterile citizenship insecurity, and we would perhaps also solve the problem to many municipalities. The two questions we ask them are very simple. If you know the problems throughout Galicia -- and you will obviously know about Casalonga and Miramontes -- when you project these facilities, these dumps, for waste treatment. And if you're going, or not, to modify Galicia's 2016-2022 Industrial Waste Management Plan, because it's in your hand, advisor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Good morning to Members and Members and, of course, to the affected neighbours, both in Santiago and in the case of Teo. First of all, I have to start by thanking Mrs Vilán for the opportunity she gives me to clarify a number of questions about waste management projects, which so much social response is having in recent months. First of all, I want to reiterate once again that in the process of such projects the Government of Greece, just as the municipalities will do, it is always about strict compliance with environmental legality. And we do it, in all cases, with maximum guarantees of transparency and also public participation. When I started listening to you, anyone would say that, on the one hand, there are inspectors who stick to their broads, and on the other hand, there are some politicians who say: don't do anything. No, Mrs. Vilan, this is not the case. There are some inspectors who actually depend on a general direction, which is that of Environmental Quality, in which there is an organization. These inspectors are going, those records are going up, and while the records are getting up, they're getting processed, but it's not always the one we'd like, because first of all, there's a need to comply with the law. Something very important needs to be taken into account. Every time we want to install this type of waste plant — waste that we all generate and, of course, have to be treated, regardless of whether we want it near our homes — we can't stop because of it. I mean, there's a processing process, and according to that processing, reports are favorable or unfavorable. In the case of Casalonga they are unfavorable. There's actually a report from the Town Hall -- as it couldn't be otherwise -- and there's a corresponding report from the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality. Therefore, processing cannot be paralysed. Sometimes politicians are what we do, to protect or take a handful of votes on either side or on the other, to warm up the environment, and we say, you can paralyze it. Well, look, no. Paralyzing is synonymous with prejudging. We can be more or less agile, and I set as an example the Town Hall of Theo. I had a month to make his first report and it didn't take a month, it took eight months; and, indeed, it made the neighbors despair. But it's not that he hadn't been offered any help to the Teo Town Hall, just as he had been offered help to the Santiago Town Hall. Having said that, what our technicians do is they analyze projects with the highest rigor and criterion and work with the most effective legislation, taking into account all the variables that should be valued. Because the waste plant projects haven't been analyzed by politicians, Mrs Vilan, there's behind a huge technical and human work that you seem to despise, and I, on the contrary, can only thank and value. In order for politicians to determine something, they have to be covered by reports, and these are the reports of technicians. When you say you have records, you have records because the administration is transparent and facilitates these acts, just as it makes them easier for all political groups, it would be more lacking! They put changes on the table in the Sun Law. As you well know, the Sun Law includes, among uses in rustic soil, waste treatment facilities, as well as other activities, such as some that we might not like, like a pyrotechnic. That's not something new, it's not from the Law of 2016, that's from the Law of 2002, which continued over time. Why? Because we have to install treatment plants and somewhere we have to put them. I say this because, in the case of some affected neighbors, the concept and the idea is that it was very recent, that it was from 2016. No, it's the year 2002. And it's based on the fact that the location is the most suitable for this type of activity. But I also want to make it clear that the regulation of urban uses in the current law is not done according to the category of rustic soil protection of what it is, since all rustic soil is worthy of being protected from uses that do not belong to it by nature. I mean, if we have to go ahead with a general plan and in a municipality we haven't taken it off yet, and that rustic soil has a nature to preserve, what we have to do is put it into that general plan. We have to speed up that general plan. There's security for the neighbors and security for the autonomic administration, for the corresponding general address. And in the case of Teo, we're waiting for him, because, in fact, in that report that you said "thanks to the Town Hall report," it's that there has to be a report from the Town Hall just like when you build a house. I'd just miss it! And you said so well, I was also mayor of a municipality that didn't have as much resources as the Teo Town Hall or the Santiago Town Hall, but believe me that the relevant reports were also made when you touched to close a dump. And here in that report it is said that "there is no justification in the project to achieve the preservation of the cultural heritage and the uniqueness and architectural typology of the area." So what we have to do is in that general plan we preserve this space, with which the neighbours will have the full assurance that no other plant will be installed there. So we have normal rustic soils and we have protective rustic soils. And in those rustic protection alone, these types of activities are not installed. We therefore have sectoral regulations. It gives the impression that you come here and say that we only take a word away and the problem is solved... Look, Mr. Vilan, the contextualized problem is solved, at a given time, in a place that is Teo, where you have competences, and what do we do in the rest of Galicia? Because what do we do in Cerceda?, what do we do in the Somozas?, what do we do...? Well, by not telling you any other county. I mean, there are sectoral laws, but we also have another arrangement on the part of the municipalities to preserve our rustic soil. And then we heard their hand to help them. We know they have the municipal plan for paralysed general management. Then let's do it and move forward. About Priga, which you put on the table, is Galicia's Industrial Waste Management Plan. It's a roadmap that should be followed for the type of activity that is installed, and then make the relevant control so that inspectors can raise the record and, from there, we make the relevant determinations. I wish I could do it in two, three, four or six months, but it wasn't like that in the case of Grixoa, in Santiago, where something will have to say also the Town Hall, which has powers especially when the trucks enter. Tell him that he's working on it, of course, and once again, that the integrated environmental authorization in the case of Grixoa was in 2008, that is, it was in the Bipartite. You're telling me Mrs. Vilan not to do that. For that, and because of the continued complaints from the neighbors, the inspectors are going, who raise the record and issue the company's relevant notifications. But I'll tell you that we're studying legally to act on our own initiative and make the modification of that authorization that you gave at a given time. With which, Guarantists? Of course! Transparent? I don't think there's any more! In fact, you're saying it when it says it has all the records. And the inspectors are ordered to do all the inspections, one after the other. From there, Priga says the following: "In assessing the location of these plants, it must be noted that, preferably, they should be located in locations where the industrial waste recovery activity generates the least impact. The compatibility of the infrastructure area with existing uses and the environment must be ensured through the application of the corrective measures required." And thanks to that, we can probably start on our own, and therefore modify the integrated environmental authority of the industry, and that Grixoa can continue or close it. And thanks to that, the Teo Town Hall was also supported to make its report unfavorable. So, we're guarantors, different is that at a certain point the only thing that interests us don't know if it's to encourage the neighbors to be in the street, if they're constantly worried about them, but it wasn't necessary to arrive at so many continuous months, in the case of Teo, if we all complied with the time they moved us, that in the case of Teo it was a month. That said, the case of Casalonga was filed in September...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u244	...this year for the Union, and that's precisely because Teo's council exercised its urban competences and issued an unfavorable urban compatibility report. And he did it by hanging, on the one hand, in the Law of the ground, and on the other, by sticking to what you want to modify, which is the Prayer. Something which, without any doubt, makes it clear that the current legislation and urban planning were more than enough to prevent the installation of the waste plant. But once again, I say to him, you who have competence in Teo, if you want your neighbors to be totally quiet, you get...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u246	...modify the corresponding General Plan, transfer it to the Galician Union and of course it will be informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u247	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u248	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor. You say what they want and what they have to do — and indeed we agree — is strictly comply with the law. Precisely for this reason, because this law causes problems not only in Teo and Grixoa, but throughout Galicia, we ask them to change it, so that they may continue strictly to comply with the law, but changed, and avoid this problem. It's very easy, when you get through the law, we'll see you vote. Because it seems like you're interested, perhaps, in not changing the law throughout Galicia and, therefore, harming Theo and harming Santiago, or vice versa, that was the feeling it gave. Well, when the law comes, we'll see. We don't ask him the question about the plan. Precisely I said that if we modify Galicia's Industrial Waste Management Plan, it'll be a transitional patch to avoid all those projects that are on top of the city councils' tables in a transitional way, until we get to the amendment of the law, which you say, by complying with the law, the problem is solved. For if the law changes and the problem is solved, easier, more impossible, counsellor! It's easier, it's impossible! But you came here to make a revolutionary totum of two things that are different. The cases of Teo and Grixoa are different. The case of Teo not only generates — and has generated — an environmental problem, because it was a new project that also generated an urban problem in Teo, which was solved thanks — I repeated to a report. There's a technician, advisor, a technician in the Town Hall, who did the report. By the way, it would take eight months, but you took eight years in Miramontes to arrive at this moment today, because the first act is in 2010. And we had to wait in Miramontes for the Prosecutor to move his file so you can now say that you are legally studying integrated environmental authorization; not the integrated environmental authority, which is what you said here, but the integrated environmental authorization. Now, after the Prosecutor's office moves fast. You guys took eight years. It took them eight months in Teo and they had a month. Indeed, the Council of Theo is a disaster, but you have to do your job, counselor, and your government has to do so too. Change the law, and we're done with the problem. By the way, the help of Teo's Town Hall came, after Mrs. Paula Prado and I had asked her a question to the former Environmental Counsellor, the Town Councillor could speak to the just advisor on the way out of the question. From there, the help came. So far there was no help. Mrs. Paula Prado, I don't know if you want to get into the debate... that's when the day of the motion will come, but I'm talking to the advisor — if I may, President — who I call him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's keep going. You wanted to mix two things that are different. On the one hand, the project and, on the other hand, some installations, advisor, that are already working. The integrated environmental authorisation is 2008 but not for organic waste. And right now, for years now, organic waste in Miramontes and you knew it, and you knew it, and I'm going to tell you why. Data collected in September 2016, after the technicians, whom we have absolute respect for, did their work. After regular inspections, after complaints from the neighbors, they went there and did their job. Those who did not do their work were responsible for their counseling, the general management. Those were the ones who didn't do their job until the Prosecutor told him. Now you do your job. Look, I'm going to read it or put it: "Modified of the plan of exploitation of the landfill of non-hazardous waste resulting from the improvement of the plan of restoration of natural space Cantera de Miramontes". I don't read the numbers, 2006... blah, blah, bar, I don't know how much, September 2016. Here it is said that "from the beginning of the activity, until September 2016, organic waste is largely exceeded by 27% of what is in the Miramontes quarry." And this document was provided by your technicians to you, your advisor. They can't say they didn't know him because it's a technical document that was in his office and you haven't done anything since 2016, Counselor. Don't mix a project that doesn't really exist with something that exists and you've been looking the other way since 2016. A document that was in his counseling, Counselor. There were complaints and requests for minutes, through Article 9, by this parliamentary group. You don't get the records from anybody, I suppose. Yes, to the parliamentary groups because we asked them, and from then on, the neighbors were able to make a complaint that they brought to the Prosecutor's Office and first brought to the media. That's transparency, counselor. The questions are very simple: if you know the problems that are not only in Teo -- I repeat again -- a project, not a physical reality, and, on the other hand, an installation that already exists in Miramontes. And if you're willing to change something to solve this problem that exists throughout Galicia permanently. Also for pyrotechnics, indeed, also for pyrotechnic companies, which are also in our bill proposition, the two things. And the moment that if we go through the bill, we can also talk about pyrotechnics, everything that's going on in Tui...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u250	...and everyone's responsibilities. Thank you very much. Answer the questions, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u251	Thank you. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilán, I spent time centering in Grixoa and in Casalonga because you named Grixoa and Casalonga. I tried to do my best, with a language that everyone could understand, but with two problems. Two problems and one solution. The solution is: strict compliance with the laws. We have the Land Law and we have the Priga. Thanks to the law of the ground and thanks to the Priga in Teo they could say no to the installation. Who has the first competition, who has to make the first report? The Town Hall. How long did he have? A month. How long did it take? Eight months. You're telling me the Teo Town Hall only has a technician. It's your duty. Or are we going to dedicate ourselves to the municipalities to partying and dating, and it turns out that apart from the neighbors, of urbanization and so on, we're not going to do anything at all? Tell him who was mayor. [[Applause]] From there on, it's: this is a shared responsibility. And what do I ask? Man, a little bit of wisdom in all this. We all generate waste, you too, me too, nothing else lifts me up at home. Do those wastes have to be treated? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course! Where? In the best place possible. Where did it determine that it was the best place possible? Rustic of non-protection. What are the possibilities of the municipalities in their general plans? So put certain areas of special forest protection, special protection of another type and, therefore, they are no longer installed. So, I think what's going on in Teo is clarified. And in Teo, what they have to do is move the general plan, order what they have to order, and from there, the neighbors will all stay calm and we'll take control of it so that that's how it is. The next theme is Grixoa. In Grixoa who gave the relevant license and integrated environmental authorization? It was in 2008, it was the Bipartite. Who ruled? Bugallo. Who was the rapporteur of the Land Law? [[Interruptions.]] Bugallo. That's reality, there's no other. [[Applause]] From then on, you tell me that the integrated environmental authorization cannot go to organic waste. Falso!, lie! Different is the control of the amount of these organic wastes that create me, believe me — under my responsibility and also in front of all the neighbors — that will be done, just as it has been taking control. Now, raising a record, another one, and another one, sometimes doesn't determine that it can be closed; just as it doesn't decide that the prosecutor has to be shut down by means of it. From there, each one has different responsibilities, which is what the Galician Union is doing right now through the Environment Council and the corresponding general direction: to analyze legally — just as it did in advance with Tecnosols, for example — everything we can do to get started on our own. So -- why not? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We can't do it any other way because there's been an integrated environmental authorization, and we can go hand in hand, Mrs Vilán. The Town Hall can also take and, on its own, review the license he gave on his day. I promise to check out the Galician board. May the Town Hall undertake to review its own. And so will the neighbors of Grixoa and also the neighbors of Teo. [[Applause]] When you say modifying, and one of the changes they propose is that these plants are isolated 2.5 kilometers away, in the case of Santiago you will understand that we no longer solve anything. But it's not like we don't solve the Santiago case, it's because we mess up all of Galicia. You tell me where you want us to put the waste plants! In politics, if we have to do something, it's to be consistent. I understand that you are in the opposition, regardless of whether you have responsibilities in the Council of Theo, and therefore say, "Well, if we isolate here 2.5 kilometers, the problem is solved." Yeah, but we have to think all over Galicia, what do we do with the rest of the plants and with the authorizations you gave, we leave them all out of order? Don't you think this is a real mess? So, commitment to your neighbors and commitment to you. Transparency, all of it. They don't only have the records of political parties, there's something called the law of transparency. They've got their neighbors too because they're asking for it, but it's that the CEO meets with the neighbors and gives them information just as she does with all of you. Soil law is guaranteed. Let's do what we have to do each one of us in our responsibilities; the councils on his land and, on the side of Junta, on our own. Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u253	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u254	By Article 76, Mr President, for inaccurateness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u255	She was alluded to as a scrapper.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u256	Tell me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u257	Of scrape. Scraping, scraping. Yes, it was alluded to but scraped. It's an expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u258	For Article 76.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u259	To correct any inaccuracies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u260	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan has just said here that the previous advisor, Mrs. Bea Mato, received the neighbors and the council after a question we dealt with in this chamber, one of Mrs. Vilan and another of mine, on July 11. That's inaccurate, because the Council and the Environment, specifically the Director General of Environmental Quality, on June 6, that is, more than a month before that date, would meet in his office, in the Council, with the neighboring platform, with the mayor of Teo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u262	...with all the municipal spokespersons and with the municipal technician, offering you the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u263	Clear. It's clear. [[Applause]] No, there's no replica. Regulation, in allusions there is no reply. That is clear to you at the end of the day. Yes, yes, there's no reply. Make clear that gap of closures there. No, no, no replica. In allusions there is no replica. There's no replica. You alluded to her in the debate and she... In allusions there is no replica, what we have to do is not give names when they're in the debate, because they're going to allude. You have to be a little smart and not give names, so that no one will feel flattered. That's how we end this problem. The full is suspended until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u264	Good afternoon. We resume the session with point 7 of questions to the Government. Question of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the type of actions to which more than eight million euros will be applied corresponding to the funds received from the State Covenant against Gender Violence for policies to prevent gender-based violence in rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u265	We begin with the question of Mrs. Maria Luisa Pierres of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u266	Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. I'm going to welcome you, who must be about to enter, to the president of women of Fademur, who will join us from Carballedo, Caldas de Reis, Sobredo dos Monxes and The Road, who will accompany us today from the rostrum. Mr. Rueda, laudable is every act of philanthropy, but when this is the cost of alien heritage, it ceases to be laudable to become censorable. With this phrase that my grandfather Antonio said on his day, a simple man and a lover of letters, I do not intend to censor you at all, but if you ask him for the end of the State Covenant funds, they will respond to the use and purposes for which they were granted or will be the object of a philanthropic act based on removing them from one another to grant them to another. On 31 July this year, at the sectoral equality conference held in Moncloa, in which you participated, the criteria for the distribution and target of 100 million euros for autonomous communities, corresponding to the State Pact were agreed. The approved credit distribution met nine criteria, both territorial and population, which took into account, inter alia, the distribution in the territory of women aged 65, the dispersion criterion and the rural character of the population. In this allocation of funds among the seventeen communities, Galicia received funds as a fifth community according to the distribution criteria of women, also in over 65 years, and also women with disabilities, and it was the first community within the distribution due to its rural condition. It's only because of this concept that it receives 3.15 million of something more than eight million that it receives from this division between autonomies. This is almost 40% of the total allocated funds. It's not a smaller number. This particular rural condition in Galicia we understand that it should convert the rural women of Galicia into the main beneficiaries of the implementation of measures and actions put in place thanks to the State Pact. You know that the expenditure of these funds received from the State can be justified by the implementation of any of the measures reflected in the State Pact, so it seems that 40% of these measures, consistent with those criteria of adjudication, should be aimed especially at the prevention of gender-based violence, victim care and training and awareness-raising of the population in rural Galicia. And since in the budget we have found no single comment on this matter, so today we ask you what kind of actions will the funds of more than 8 million euros received from the State Covenant against Gender Violence on policies to prevent gender-based violence in rural areas be applied? And will they count on social entities present in the territory to implement effectively the measures and actions planned? Nothing else, for the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, you can tell your grandfather Antonio -- it was called that, right? -- that you can be quiet because it's not about taking anyone away from here to give someone else. Luckily more funds come up and, therefore, without stopping what was done before, we're going to try to do something else, as is logical. I think yesterday, in my monographic appearance on this subject, a lot has been said about. It's true that there was a lot more to talk about, besides what's going to be done specifically in the countryside, so I didn't take all the time of my intervention. But I also tell you one thing, this is partly justified because, like all policies that have to do with equality and gender-based violence, everything that has to do with housing for women, everything that has to do with aid during judicial proceedings, everything that has to do with help for employment, all that, logically, is going to have a special impact on rural life. It's 3.15 million, actually, it's 40%, and we really like it because we also need it. We have these rural characteristics, and Galicia was dedicated precisely to that disposition of its people, and these funds come. Others, with other criteria, also get those funds. So we're going to apply them specifically to that. And I'm telling you, apart from all this cross-section, of course, that we're going to collaborate with all the associative tissue that aims to put a hand where the Administration does not reach, too, with regard to equality and the fight against gender violence in rural areas. We already have agreements in force with some federation, and we will have them with all those who offer activities. I also use it to welcome the Fegamur directive, and we will have all those who present to us activities that may be incardinated within the objectives of the State Covenant against Gender Violence and that the Council of Galicia can collaborate. Of course, I was telling you yesterday that we're going to start knowing exactly what the diagnosis is so that we can act right from the beginning. We're going to do that macro-enquisition, apart from what has already been done in 2012 and 2006, a specific rural reference, to find out exactly what the problems are, what the situation is, who is in a better position to help, who can be more effective. We'll do all that, of course. And don't despise two things. I know you don't despise them, forgive the expression, but let's not forget two things. First, that most CIS people are in the countryside and we're gonna keep supporting them, I was talking to you about that yesterday. They do exceptional work, a fundamental work, in everything that has to do with the fight against gender-based violence, especially in rural municipalities. The last ones that have just been set up are in rural municipalities. And don't forget that the EUR 800,000 that I was talking about yesterday is going to give the Galician board to complete the funds that the state is going to give to the municipalities, and that they haven't arrived yet, they're going to have a very specific content and they're going to dominate those rural municipalities that are doing activities to fight against gender violence. So the countryside will be there, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u269	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u270	Mr. Rueda, now if I welcome the women of Fademur who accompany us today. You spoke today about some of these measures, yesterday you also spoke about these measures and aid to women's associations in Galicia, and yesterday you pointed to some 300,000 euros of opening a specific line to put in place concrete preventive actions, and they were mainly rural. They also talked about collaborating with the federations of rural women, with a program to support the victims of gender-based violence in rural areas, and a study of the incidence of gender-based violence, as you have just confirmed. He gave us some figures yesterday, but we're still out of our heads, as much as he talks about cross-section, up to 3.15 million. I would like to remind you that the Government, in addition, already has the mandate of this House to do these specific studies and campaigns to combat violence in rural areas, a task which, before its inaction — and you have just confirmed it, since 2012 — has been called, but not a lack of reprisals, assumed precisely Fademur in November 2017, with an inquiry which shows that if the violence in general does not know about places or profiles of victims, if they perceive themselves as more frequent and less attended, visible and denounced, in rural areas. That 62% of women assured themselves they didn't know about any campaign against gender-based violence, or that 41% don't incorporate the topic into their talks with friends, we find it worrying. Rurality is a key factor in the distribution of State funds, because it is known of the special vulnerability of these women. Fademur knows it, the state knows it, and you know it. And if in Galicia we add that in our rural area lies a large part of Galicia's largest population, and with a greater degree of dependence, the situation is worsened, and it obliges not only immediate performances, but in which its effectiveness is ensured. That's why I'm asking you if you're going to spend the State Pact funds to meet the objective criteria you've designed to meet the women in the Italian countryside, or you're going to do philanthropies with others at the cost of these funds. And what's going to be the criterion for selecting entities and prioritizing projects. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. The question is already raised. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, I think that in the question there is a different tone or intention of your intervention yesterday in the audience. So we can agree. So, I think this has to be the way and I thank you. For that, there is also the parliamentary opposition to control. That's why I asked for proposals yesterday and committed myself to come, at least once a year, to see how the State Covenant against Gender Violence goes and how we're applying it. So you'll be vigilant, I'm sure. They're on their right and on their obligation, and we're forced to try to do it right, and for that we'll talk. And I believe that the State Covenant against Gender Violence is sufficiently targeted so that anyone who does not fit or conforms to the goals and parameters that come marked, that money cannot be used. That's why I also said yesterday that I think it's good that if you do an evaluation on a follow-up commission between the autonomous communities and the state, and those who are doing it well, receive more funds, and those who are doing it wrong, those funds cannot use them. That's why we'll try to do it right. Anyway, it won't be anything new. Now that there's more money, you can expand your actions and, therefore, you can also expand partnerships and entities that can collaborate, of course, and based on objective criteria. But we're already doing it. By giving some data, I have here orders of aid and subsidies for social initiative entities directed to women in a vulnerable situation. In 2018, nine specific associations of rural women had aids worth more than EUR 250.00. Aid orders and grants for the promotion of women's associationism and participation. One hundred and four women's associations received grants; more than 70% had a rural character. The Galician Women's Council has a specific commission from rural women. I mean, they're doing things and they can do a lot more. And, of course, if there are funds, you can do better because you can get to many more parameters. I want you to hold your hand to participate with suggestions, with proposals, to transfer contacts if we have them, which I think we already have all, of people or associations who are interested in working, and so we will try to do things well, with their participation and constructively. So you can do things. I remind you again that these EUR 800,000 that will already have the councils of the funds that correspond to us, that have not yet arrived in the state and that they have to arrive already — let it come as soon as possible — will have a very preferential approach to rural councils because we believe that they are the ones who most need the help of the Union to make policies of equality against gender violence. And I remind you too and claim it, because yesterday it was put in doubt — or at least so I understood — the fundamental work of the CIS, which is mainly in rural areas. The last ones that opened, in Mos, eminent rural, reaching places where there had been no resources and from now on women know where to go. If you're working in the countryside, if you're working with your hands, and I hope your contributions will help us all to be satisfied, especially with associations, which are those who work without any other interest but to succeed and do well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u273	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the actions planned by the Galician Board to ensure the demands of CRTVG workers leading them to strike in November 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u274	You have the word to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all of you. Mr. Wheel, let's bring back here, very well done, the issue of CRTVG, and in particular the strike that started yesterday. There's a roll of mobilization planned: 20, 22, 24, 26, 28 and 30 November, and in December -- not in the questions we ask you -- they're announced for the day 2, 9, and also for the day 22 December. In Marea it is involved and it supports this call by the Intercenter Committee that defends the platform of workers and workers Defends Galicia. And why? Because we think it's an absolutely fair claim that we have repeatedly brought here. We need to get rid of the childish branch, or from that misinformation conjure. We need truth, we need it in the waves, in the screens, for the future and for our identity signs: for our culture and for our language. All this that they defend with courage, and which is a social pride for all of us, exemplifies that other media are possible with that headline of "By a public CRTVG serving Galicia." They're possible, and that's why we support activism for the truth. Yesterday's results, first day, exceed forecast. There's 80% follow-up, and there's also a change in grid programming, with which the citizen could also know that there are claims, that otherwise the strike would not be visible. It should be borne in mind that there was no agreement on minimum services either. In the minimum services they did not reach an agreement, but we remember the last two judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. What about the 8M feminist strike? Because they were excessive and malicious on one side, and on the other, they were using internal squirming techniques. These adjectives are very strong, but they say the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Objectives and demands are very clear. On the one hand, regaining its own production. It is not to be accepted that one in four euros is intended for external production. End fraudulent recruitment. You have fraud with certain collaborators. Not information manipulation. And, of course, compliance with the law and its integrity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u277	The question is put.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u279	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Cuña, indeed, the question is put, it is not the first time we have talked about this. It's not the first time that you, legitimately, put it in terms and it won't be the first -- I don't know if the last one depends on you -- to which I, in the name of the Government, responds exactly the same thing. The Galician Radio-Television Company is independent, therefore, you cannot — I understand — in an explanatory statement, criticize the government's interference in the operation of the company, and then end up asking a question saying what will the Galician Union do in a conflict between the workers and the Company? It is precisely this, Mrs Cuña, to respect their independence, to respect the negotiating mechanisms, to respect the mechanisms that exist, even from this Parliament, for any suggestion, any contribution or claim that is to be made in a parliamentary committee, and therefore to understand that the public media are not controlled by the Government. You insist that they are controlled by the Government and at the same time denounce that they are controlled by the Government. That contradiction has to clarify you and your group, not this government, which has it very clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u282	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u283	I suppose it's not nice for you. Of course, it won't be the last. We'll keep coming here with this question until the law is satisfied. How can the Vice President of the Government of Galicia say that, in the face of non-compliance with the law, he has no responsibility at all? It's unheard of, it's inconceivable! Of course they have responsibility! Possibly, Mr. Rueda, responsibility is not yours directly. We'll look for the necessary instances until the end. It is true that in order for you to comply with the law, you must urge the Board of Directors, consisting of six elected persons between the PP and the Socialist Party of Galicia. And urge that the Information Council, the Staff Regulations and the Programme Contract be complied with. All of this has to be done through the Board of Directors, but you have a lot to say there. And it's incredible that they throw balloons out and say, oh, this isn't going with me. And when we go to the CRTVG Commission, which is not legislative: oh, this doesn't go to the director either. Of course, the director of the CRTGV will not cease in his office or you will do it, because the best thing is to use public television as a propaganda tool for a government, is incredible. You're wasting your time! They believe their own TV. But they don't use the resources of all the Greeks to do electoralism. That's the millionth of it. [[Applause]] It's very simple, Mr. Rueda, please comply with the law!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u284	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u285	And this is government responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Close the question, Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, this isn't about whether it turns out to be nice or not. I come here to fulfill my duty and you, I suppose, to ask the question. If you propose it in those terms of whether you like to ask the question and I like to give the answer, I didn't think so. I planned to be absolutely objective and more on this subject, in which I will insist. I know I'm not going to convince her, but I'm sorry to tell her that it is. There is no law. You talk about this in terms of legality and tell me how possible I, in the name of the Government, come here to say that I comply with the law. It's just that I'm complying with the law when I say there's no law to say that the government has to intervene in the public media to control them. That's what Mr. Pablo Iglesias would like to say a law. That of: "to give me the TV sets and them that stay with the ministries," if there was a law that said that... we know that this happens in many dictatorships, it happens in many totalitarian regimes, where governments get into the public media to control them, so they don't say what they don't like, so they say what they're interested in saying. That's your model. That's not our model. That's what you're trying to do here questions after questions, in which I recognize you that we're worth that and that we're going to intervene in the public media that you then denounce that we're controlling. That's your model. It's not our model. Fortunately, I'm staying with the democratic model. For a lot of questions I'm not going to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u288	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions of the Government of Galicia in relation to the drop in the assessment of public health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u289	Question by Mrs. María Montserrat Prado Cores of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u290	Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. The public health assessment only makes it worse, and this is an indicator of the problems that the People's Party's health model is generating, consisting of privatization, cuts and staff precariousness. Over the past nine years, the People's Party has driven all kinds of measures that have deepened in dismantling public health. This deterioration is the cause of the strikes of the CAP professionals; of the CHUS emergencies; of which it kept 061, the ambulance workers; of which the MIR denounce the precariousness and lack of working opportunities while Sergas professionals are missing and waiting lists only grow; and also of the complaints and complaints of sick people like those who are doing throughout the country because of the lack of pediatricians, or those done by the parents and mothers of the oncologic children who have entered the CHUS, who have just reported the bad conditions that this service is having. As the others know that you know them, I'll explain to you a little bit what these parents and mothers are reporting, Mr. Almuña. They claim that there isn't a pediatric oncology unit as such, but they're entering the pediatrics unit, sharing unity with other pathologies, which poses a risk to these children, almost always without defenses. There's an insufficient number of rooms; there are immune-depressed children coming and they have to wait hours in the cure room or in an office for lack of beds. That Oncology children's income is often done in school rooms, without the specific services they have of Oncology, and this is a risk. That there are only four rooms for isolation, when the demand is always higher, and then they enter normal rooms, which do not count on positive air pressure. That they get to put three beds in a room, with which, at least, there are always three people, i.e., oncoholic children, stacked in a room. That the stuff that's broken doesn't go back. That a few days ago, the balconies fell from the bathroom of an insulated room, with an incoming child, which could cause a misfortune. That the cleaning is poor. There's no common space, there's no living room, when income is very long -- which is particularly serious -- That the day hospital has a spaceless waiting room, no proper chairs, no chairs for the escorts, where they have to stay for hours. They claim that the very serious deficiencies and irregularities I have just described very briefly — that I could spend a lot of time describing them — are only overcome by the good doing of the professionals. So, Mr. Almuña, professionals and sick people are saying that they come here, and that they are not willing to shut up in the face of the brutal deterioration of health, because they want public health and quality. I ask you, Mr. Almuña, whether you are going to rectify your health policy of privatization, of cuts, of the precariousness of staff and of these health conditions, which has as a result worse health and, as a result also, that increasingly worse qualification...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u292	...of public health in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u293	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Almuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u295	Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u296	It clearly sets out in this question the opportunism it has in every condition. Because the question that you ask us today is exactly what actions will be held by the Government of Greece in the face of the continued drop in the assessment of the Greek public health? And pick up the oncoholic children to, opportunistically, try to say that Welsh public health is bad. It's all a lie. [[Murmurs.]] It is a lie from the title of the question, because it is not diminishing what is the score in the health barometer — and then I will comment on it — until the lack of respect you make in this question, because it is not the first time you use a name from the president of this government that is not what it is. So I think you should of course try to respect the people who are in management and use arguments that are real. Look, the reality is that the Galician Union dedicates 40.5% of its entire budget to, of course, give better health. 35% was the government's -- where you were -- of the Bipartite at that time. So, 4 billion euros practically, 200 more than in the bipartisan government than you were; and 1,544 professionals more than in 2008. We improve infrastructure, health centers and hospitals, and we provide them with better equipment during these years. But let's go to the question you didn't ask me, which is the health barometer. It says that this survey has been carried out since 1993. As for general satisfaction with the public health system, it says it is satisfactory for most citizens; the average of Galicia is 6.49 points over 10. If we analyze the trend since you ask this question, from 2002 to 2017 is the best assessment of the entire history of this health barometer. In primary care, 88.5% of users of these services in Galicia consider that the care provided was either good or very good — 88.5%. 78.5% of Galician patients who were attended in external consultations by experts consider attention to be good or very good. 72.8% of people who've had income also say it's good or very good. Of the people who used public emergency services in Galicia, 84.7% say it's a good or very good performance; six more points -- as I said this morning -- than in the National Health System. He then talks about the Report published in The Lancet magazine, which measures quality and access to health care no less than in 195 countries, Spain, among them, placed 8 in 2015 and 19 in 2016, and says why it is the fall. Fall is just with higher scores for some new parameter, but we're still among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u297	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u298	The Bloomberg Report, published in September...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u299	Your time is over, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u300	...is the Spanish system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u301	Time's up. Counselor, you have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u302	...as Europe's first and most efficient.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u303	No, that's it. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u304	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u305	Replica. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u306	What bothers you exactly is that they haven't prepared for the reality that they have for the public health of our country. [[Applause]] What bothers you is that the situation, for example, of CHUS' pediatric oncology is coming out in public light because there are some parents and mothers who say, "We're here and we can't stand the situation that our children have." [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They can't stand more than issues like this happen in children with oncoholic diseases. [[Applause]] This is the situation, Mr. Almuño, where they've got on-cooked children. Look at the screen, that's what's bothering you! Things like this bother you that you can go out in the investigation committee, so you don't want these accounts to be told to the German Parliament. That's exactly what's bothering you! [[Applause]] That's what's bothering you! [[Applause]] What bothers you is that you have not prepared an answer for each of the things you can tell this Parliament. [[Applause]] And the situation in which CHUS' pediatric oncology is a clear mirror of our country's public health: lack of personnel, lack of space, deterioration of materials, lack of sensitivity to the most vulnerable and the weakest, sick oncoholic children... and they ran right away as soon as the complaints were made by their parents. They started running through the oncology plant all kinds of characters, all kinds of professionals, solving problems, when they had been going through for months and years without going through and without solving them. Shame on you, Mr. Almuña! See-go-zo-zo-so! [[Applause]] That's the real situation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And professional and sick, and parents and mothers of patients, are telling you, we've come so far, we're no longer bearing the lie that you're trying to say it's the public health of this country, and it's not true. That's not true! You can't cover up the reality of public health with your finger. Even if they try to, they can't cover it. That's why I'm asking you again: are you going to rectify with the emergency professionals of the CHUS and the CAP? Are you going to solve the CHUS pediatric oncology problems?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u308	Are they rectified to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u309	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u310	Thank you, Mr. President. I will continue to read reports that say how the Spanish public health system is and, therefore, that of Galicia. The Inter-American Development Bank, studying 69 countries, says Spain is in fifth place worldwide and first among Europeans. And to tell you about the Federation of Health Protection Associations, you call me attention that you don't talk about anything that you're theoretically asking, but that you say we fell into these. So look, yes, we've fallen a little bit in the Federation of Public Health Associations indicator, curiously because it negatively values spending on hospital pharmacy, that is, we're increasing spending on new treatments, new drugs for spinal cord atrophy, for hepatitis C, it's negative for this analysis that makes this platform. With which, for us not, it is good for us and we will continue to do so. Of course, for us — for the Galician Union — health care is a priority, as I say, with budgets and with dedication of all the people who work: thirty-eight thousand workers who make an impressive effort. But we don't stay there, we want to continue to improve in facilities — hospitals, as I said — technology and also in the formation of new professionals: creating nursing specialties, for example, that don't have other autonomous communities. We will continue, of course, saying that the Greek public health is at a very high level, we will continue to defend it, we will move forward — here we will never stand still — but, of course, we will not say that the Greek public health is a bad health; quite the contrary, and I think that is what this implies. And the implication, as I say, of this government, which does not coincide with the two-party government, of which you were part, that of course neither on the assumption, nor in services nor in anything, in addition, worked the way it had to work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they keep saying -- of course, there is a strategy by three opposition groups -- to talk about the commission of inquiry. Well, look, I have to say that you're not in the investigation commission because you don't want to, because you don't have any arguments and, of course, you don't want to go to debate, you don't want to be there because you don't have any arguments to override the data we have. That's the only problem, and now what they use is opportunistically any incidence in this service to attack. That's right, it's just like that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And look: the health barometer says something obvious. Since that question was raised, the question of general satisfaction on health, which citizens of each autonomous community think, is what happens. Graph is ascending. [[Mr Vázquez Almuña shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Sorry, this is the graph. [[Murmurs.]] No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm going to explain the following graph. [[Mr Vázquez Almuña shows you a document to the members of the House.]] This graph is ascending, but curiously there's another barometer, which is the political barometer... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u311	Thank you. Quiet. Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. Thanks, time's up, counselor, time's up. [[Mr. Vázquez Almuínña pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Question by Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the date scheduled by the Junta of Galicia for the implementation of the service of Hemodynamics twenty-four hours a day at the University Hospital Lucus Augusti, de Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u312	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counsellor, again we have to talk about the need to deploy the hemodynamics twenty-four hours in Lugo, and we need to talk about it again because you are still failing to fulfill the promise that Mr Feijóo made eight years ago publicly at the hospital: that we would have that service in 2011. Eight years later we continue without him, and we continue without him, even though all the data — and now I will talk about them — and all the opinions and recommendations of the experts assure and prove the need to count on this service. Just a few months ago, the Chief of Cardiology of the HULA said again, again, that it was necessary to increase this service twenty-four hours, because it was out of the question that they could be treated around a third of all patients in need of this Hemodynamic Service. Fifty hundred and fifty patients a year who cannot be treated in time, mainly with primary anxioplasty in case of infarction, because they have to go to the Coruña or Santiago to receive that treatment. And this data, the data I'm going to refer to, certainly gives these statements. Data that you yourself gave us to the Socialist Group. I have to say, Mr. Counsellor, that we had to get that data out practically with forceps, because we had to ask and ask questions, because transparency doesn't seem to be something of the Health Council. [[Applause]] But listen to me, Counselor, your data, the latest data we have on the report of Galician infarction log. Last data given in February 2018: in Coruña and Santiago, the time since a patient has an infarction and reaches a Hemodynamic unit is one hundred and three minutes; in Lugo, one hundred and fifty-five, thirty-five minutes more than recommended by specialists, who put the threshold in one hundred and twenty. Thirty-five more minutes! The highest, along with Ourense, from all over Galicia. And, logically, this data of the delay in receiving attention reflects the mortality rates: the overall mortality by infarction in Galicia is 3.6%, the mortality in Lugo is 4.6. Data given by you, here I have, data recorded in Parliament. The lowest is 2.9 in Santiago, but if we look at the dead with anxioplasty, they go down, and they come down a lot, Counselor. Global of Galicia: 2.4 percent. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u314	It's clear that the elections are already approaching. Look: in Lugo, what indeed fulfilled the promise was President Feijóo, who inherited a closed hospital and put it into operation with all the facilities they have, creating new services like the Hemodynamic Service, the Radiotherapy Oncology Service — by the way, with two fully functioning accelerators — or a Nuclear Medicine Service. [[Balbordo.]] That's what Mr. Feijó created in Lugo. By the way, we're already complementary to hospital care and now we're with primary care: we're going to create the first Integral Health Center in the old Lugo hospital, at the old General Hospital in Lugo. We just need a municipal license so we can fix it. [[Murmurs.]] We're pending, because I think we need to keep improving what we're doing. Look: Progaliam was a program that was established in Galicia in 2006 to follow up and follow up on the diagnosis and treatment of acute myocardial infarction. It was one of the first autonomous communities, far ahead of another that governs the Socialist Party, as is Andalusia. Look: we continue to work, and in December 2014 was approved by a proposal from the People's Party here the Regaliam — the Acute Infarction Registry of Miocardium — to begin to know the reality of the infarction in Galicia, creating all the units that we currently have working. Lugo's is an important unit, an important cardiology, which develops at Lugo's Lucus Augusti Hospital. With that order it was created, and it began to determine exactly what the situation was like, always following the criteria of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, which marks that for a service to be adequate it must have a mortality of less than five percent. In Galicia, in all health areas, this precept is fulfilled. From there the follow-up commission, consisting of cardiologists from the seven health areas, where each time they review the data and, clearly, balanced and, from then on, seeking accessibility to the system, establish corrective measures. In January 2018 they gave a series of recommendations after performing this whole case analysis. And one thing is to say that you have to get to people first, because what comes first or later depends that people know what symptoms of acute myocardial infarction are. Advertising campaign... No, they can laugh, but that's a fundamental element: information campaign for the entire population to do it. [[Laughter]] We also checked the isochrons of ambulance locations to get them as soon as possible. And, of course, we analyzed all the factors that lead to this decrease and it was recommended to extend the schedule, both in Ourense and in Lugo, to test precisely the effectiveness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u315	Thank you, Counselor, time's up. Time's up, Counselor. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u316	Counselor, let's see. Time also depends on distance, not only when... of course, I imagine: the time of arrival also depends on whether an infarction is three o'clock in the morning or three o'clock in the morning, because if it's three o'clock in the morning you can't go to Lugo, you must go to Coruña or Santiago. [[Applause]] That depends. But I also want you to explain to me why in the mortality rates — which are the Council's — the Lugo and Ourense rates, which have no hemodynamics for twenty-four hours, are the highest. They're data given for you: 4.6 global in Lugo and when we put anxioplasty, 3.6. In Lugo it gives the same anxioplasty or not, because it turns out we have the same mortality rate as the whole of Galicia without that treatment. And look, if you have to be under the five, and Santiago has 2.9, and the Coruña has to think that one three, tell me why he doesn't leave and close hemodynamics twenty-four hours here. What's the matter? Save money. I mean, it's got to be under five, but it doesn't matter. You don't want to save patients below five percent, Counselor. That's -- it seems to me -- actually, really very crawly. Look: it doesn't matter because there's no political will, but I do want to know one thing, Counsellor, and speaking of elections, can you tell me and can you promise me that you won't announce the extension of hemodynamics twenty-four hours before the municipal elections? Look at this thing on tape, huh? It's on tape. [[Applause]] First: Are you going to open hemodynamics for twenty-four hours? Second, when? And third: is it commencing not to announce it in elections, Counselor? Of course, because talking about elections is very good, but look, here we've seen is defending health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u318	I don't care if it gets serious; you can record, I have no problem with that. But look: the difference between you and us, of course, we have different types of criteria, because if we were so easy out there, we could announce it in the autonomous elections, but we believe in technicians. Here, one day a Member told me that for the technicians, this is politics, and here we have to say and do what politicians say. No, thank God we have good technicians, and good politicians respect the decisions of technicians. We have a commission and I'm not afraid of the commission; the committee is the one that says at every moment what recommendations must be made, and we comply with the recommendations. [[Murmurs.]] In this case, clearly, they've expanded, and we're going to see the results. His question might come a little early, just as the time they set him up in Lugo did not meet his expectations, but there will be a review soon and there will be. What can it be? Something or something. To say we're doing fine right now or that we have to improve. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now, look, there's no hemodynamic service in the world that has zero mortality. Plus, there are hemodynamic services that have higher mortality because they treat the most serious patients; the most serious patients go to the sites that, of course, have the best trained specialists, and sometimes these services have even higher mortalitys. We have a very good Cardiology Service in Lugo -- we all agree, I don't think it's necessary to say it -- so let's let those who have to work, who are the experts. Technicians will make some recommendations after analyzing everything that I call for the extension of that schedule, tell us how many patients are attending the afternoons on that schedule, both in Lugo and in Ourense, and from there, with these recommendations, we will act. No matter whether they are elections or not they are elections, because — as I say — it would be easy to announce them when they are more interested in each other. We don't do it; unfortunately there are others who do it, and before the linear accelerators started operating in Lugo there was a prominent political leader who devoted himself to doing, with cameras, walking, who I think called the paths of death. That is not to help health; to help health is to enhance all treatments that are being done in Lugo, and those that are not done in Lugo, that have to do in another city, like any citizen of Galicia, will always be well done. And we're going to look for efficiency and, of course, that patients get the best treatment possible regardless of where they live. And there we will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u319	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luis Villares Naveira, from G.P. of In Marea, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the financing of a public residence project for older persons in Boiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u320	You have the floor, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u321	Well, being a Member of Parliament for Lugo, I cannot but say that leaving specialists to work is precisely to meet their twenty-four-hour demands of hemodynamics in Lugo. But today, Counsellor, we are asking about a question that is apparently local, but that is of strategic interest to the people of Greece, because we are talking about the residence of Boiro and we are talking about the strategic need to increase as soon as possible public squares in larger residences; throughout the country, but especially in the district of Barba and in the district of Muros and Noia, because it is especially defective. You're sure you know her well, because it's from this same neighborhood, but you're looking at that there's only two residential centers of the third age owned by the board, one of them with private management. And one fact: since the start of the residence of the poor for the Galician Union in 1986, in Barbados there has not increased the public supply of any kind, although it has indeed increased the demand for this service. We're going to see the data: in total, the three districts have a larger population of sixty-five years of 31,406 people, with which, if we go to the WHO recommended residence squares — five percent — we'd be talking about, in all these districts, we'd need a thousand and fifty residential squares. You yourself know how many there are, you know that we have 300 five; therefore, the rate in this area would be 0.97 percent, still less than half-Greek, which is already low. I therefore believe that we will agree with all the groups in this chamber — we will also agree because there was a unanimous motion adopted in this direction in the Boiro Council — in which it is necessary to increase immediately the public squares of older residences in the area. And specifically we bring this residence from Boiro because a group of people from Boiro, many of the retired people present here today in this chamber, to whom we greet, decided to collect signatures to transfer to the Union — and to the Town Hall, in the first instance — the urgent need to have public residence squares. That claim, which, by the way, has reached almost three thousand signatures in a few days, was assumed by Boro Novo, a political group that we have here with us today, presented in the corporation and, as I say, was unanimously approved by March 2017. A motion was unanimously adopted in support of the construction of a public residence, if possible, on the grounds of Goiáns palace farm. Well, what's going on? That, on the one hand, the Municipality of Boiro is processing a modification of the PXOM to allow the buildingability of this plot, but on the other hand, it is also looking for this to be a private project. And the neighborhood of Boiro and Borio Novo we don't accept that it can end this on a alleged private investor, and we say "presumptuous" because transparency shines by its absence. And we started from a central element: the private square model is not suited to the socio-economic reality of the country. Ask these people you've got up here if they could with your pension, given the case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u322	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Thank you, your time is up. Thank you, thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vázquez Verao. It is a pleasure for me to come to this parliament today to talk about how to improve the quality and attention of our elders. It's a matter I've been dealing with for the last few years as CEO and now it's among my priorities as Social Policy Advisor. It is also of particular importance to address the situation of attention to our elders in the districts of Barba, Muros and Noia, because for both family and political reasons I could hear all the reflections on the attention to dependence in this area. I start with where I always start: we can't say we're 100 percent satisfied with the current situation, but what we can say is that we're 100 percent proud of everything we've done in recent years. Because thanks to them all the older people of the neighborhoods of Barbados, Walls and Girl have more resources than ever to become bigger as they freely decide. And to review the important evolution that has experienced the attention to dependency in this area, it's enough to analyze the data of one of the insignificant services in our autonomous community as the home help service. As you know, receiving home care is a majority preference for our elders, and the Galician Union is working to comply with it. So, we became the autonomous community of reference to home help and we count on the most outstanding ratios at the national level, already taking the attention paid by professionals over eighty percent and, where we have been legislating, the hours of SAF in the districts that you refer to in the question have increased substantially. This climb accelerated last year and throughout this year, when we injected 14.7 million euros converted into hours to care for everyone in their homes. The hours of SAF in the Barbanza district grew by about thirty percent to more than one hundred and seventy thousand. The hours of SAF in Walls and Girl's districts have increased by about twenty percent to over one hundred and forty-seven thousand. Mrs. Verao, you also refer to residential services, and I would like to talk about them too. In these regions today there are more than 200 residential squares held with public funds to care for the elderly in dependency. We also have two hundred public squares in five day centers: in Boiro, in Dodro, in Walls, in Outes and in the Poor of the Caraminhal. By the way, two of them only existed before 2009. In short, the services of attention to the neighborhoods of Barba, Muros and Noia are not in an optimal position, but they are better than they were before. And I can assure you, Mrs. Verao, that we will always work to improve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u324	Thank you, Counselor, thank you. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u325	Well, we expect them to keep working on having an older public residence in Boiro, because that's what we asked. Are you going to Junta to commit to more public residential squares, and specifically to the residence of Boiro? Reading the budgets does not seem to us; we, in fact, have made an amendment because, as budgets are, that implies that the Board will not have this backing. You spoke of more than 200 squares in comarcas residences; we, according to RUEPSS, count three hundred five, but would need more than one thousand five hundred. So, I think in this issue, I don't think it's up to me. And he talked about the SAF. Yes, of course, SAF is one of the services that has increased. But, of course, in the IGE survey on self-perception of dependency you've already been told that about forty-five thousand more people would need to be cared for by this service. But more importantly, the services that grow less are those that are the most expensive — like those of residences — and they are the ones that would allow women to reduce the burden of care. Because we're also going to the data: this same survey on self-perception of dependence tells us that in Galicia there are about one hundred and forty-five thousand people looking after dependent people, people like those who are up here today, because that's also the reality. More than sixty-two percent of people who care for dependents are women, and most of them are over forty-five years old; they are already women who, some of them, are even over sixty years old. You know that of those one hundred forty-five thousand people only 13,333 are the benefits that are dependent on family care, but how high is there in Social Security? Ninety-eight to September 2018. Ninety-eight. It's dramatic what's happening with care in this country and with dependence. That's why, concrete question: will you commit Junta to the residence of major public in Boiro? It's urgent, it's necessary, there have been no public squares since 1986 in Barbados. Titleers like this: "Start war on the residences of Barbados." It's not a war, we have to equip all the municipalities of the most public squares; it's not a war, it's an urgent need, more than 500 squares are needed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u326	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Thank you. Close this question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u327	Thank you, President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, it gives me the feeling that you and I have some things in common, and one of them is, of course, the concern to give as much attention as possible to our elders. This concern is what led the Galician Union to set itself an ambitious goal: 60,000 dependents attended throughout the legislation. And this concern was also the one that led the Galician Union today to advance the target of 60,000 to the completion of this year 2018. And, as a result of this concern for our biggest people, we have the data of the dependents we just met yesterday: 59,403 people attended this month of October. I mean, objective accomplished in ninety-nine percent. However, there is also something in your question that attracts my attention. You seem to prefer that there is no resource in these districts before there is a resource driven by the municipalities. And to me, honestly, it seems to me a good news that there are councils willing to look for all possible situations to improve resources, but above all, to improve the attention of older people in dependency. And so today, I want to say that the Government of Greece will ensure that all older people in a dependent position in the neighborhoods of Barbados, the Walls and the Girl who wish to attend a residence will have a standing place with public funds. It is, of course, a commitment that extends to all of Galicia. And this will be guaranteed through the concert of self-sustainment in residence, but the result will be the same: resources of attention to dependence within the reach of the Greek families. [[Applause]] When what's at stake is to improve the quality of life of dependent people, I can commit myself to the fact that the Galician Union will always be there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u328	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D.Antón Sánchez García and D. David Rodríguez Estévez by G.P. of En Marea, on the view of the Government of Greece on the need for Galicia to have its own strategic plan, towards the next period of the common agricultural policy, taking into account the characteristics of the country
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u329	You have the floor, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u330	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In August this year, the former Councillor for the Rural Environment, Mrs. Ánxeles Vázquez, has signed a document reflecting the institutional position of the Government of the Union towards the reform of the CAP. The document was delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for Galician arrivals to be present in Spain as a Member State of the European Union. In this text, a single State strategic plan was called for the aid of the CAP. At the first point of the document he literally said: "The Commission maintains the proposal that each country should draw up its own model of implementation by drawing up a national strategic plan, giving Member States more capacity to adapt the CAP to its territorial, productive and sectoral reality." Well, the territorial, productive and sectoral reality of Galicia I think little or nothing has to do with the region of Murcia. But in this same document, later on, he added: "We consider it essential that, as set out in the draft regulation, there should be a single strategic plan for the Member State. (...) The new Regulation should lay down uniform criteria for all states." This has already been given to you, I have come from the former advisor. But you have recently come to the Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union accompanied by the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr Planas. In this council he defended the position set out in the previous document, so officially Galicia is placing before Europe for a single strategic plan by state, with the aim of simplifying — that is, curious — processing and ensuring equal opportunities. This could undoubtedly be otherwise, otherwise quite different, as they have demonstrated autonomous communities, how it can be Catalonia or how it can be the Basque Country, who have chosen to propose a strategic plan of the CAP itself. This initiative already includes the European Commission itself, which allows regional strategic plans tailored to the needs of the territories. There's no need to underline that having a plan of your own for Galicia would be of much more benefit, as it would better adapt to our peculiarities and our specific needs. However, the Government of the United Nations has chosen to demand this single strategic plan, in line with what the former Central Government has already done and in line with what the current Government does. This contradicted the will expressed often by your own person to meet the different specifications of each autonomous community. It is true that the Commission's proposal, which was tabled on 29 November last year, did not represent a very radical change in the policies made so far in the conception of the CAP, but introduced elements that would leave the states or regions much to redefine its application on their territory. But it seems that to the Government of the Union this little mattered, and from there our question, which is if it does not consider the Government of Greece that it would be more appropriate than Galicia to count on a strategic plan itself towards the next period of the CAP that had taken into account the characteristics of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u331	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Thank you. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u332	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez, for your question, just two days after I arrived from Brussels — as soon as I've been in charge, I've been to Europe twice to defend the rights of the German farmers and livestock. We must take the matter into account and say, firstly, that I am not accompanied, but that I am accompanying the Minister of Spain to the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries of the European Union. Because you certainly know that too, but there are those who speak and represent us are the member states. And to put the issue in place too, we must bear in mind that the new regulation of the CAP began to discuss June 1, 2018. The multiannual financial framework was proposed and the CAP legislative package was collected, which contains three proposed regulations for the period 2021-2027. The first thing the Government of Spain did — of course supported by the Union — was, from the very first moment, to defend the need for the CAP to be a strong and well-funded CAP, and there we are. And I think that's where we've always had to move a unit around that position. I think, Mr Rodríguez, that your political group will also understand that the most important thing right now is that there is the money that has to happen for our farmers and livestock, at least, which is what we ask for, as in the period 2014-2020. What does the new CAP do or what does the Commission do? It proposes a new approach to the CAP: it wants to go from a more repressive stance to a more preventive approach, that there is a work to bring the CAP closer to the territories. And from that point on, one of the regulations, one of the proposed regulations is precisely the one that talks about strategic plans. I, Mr. Rodríguez, must tell you, with all due respect: I don't know where to get that from strategic plans by the autonomous community. I have here, and then I will give it to the President, the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament on 1 June, which, in recital 55, clearly states that the strategic plan is for each Member State — as it could not be otherwise, according to the institutional architecture of the European Union, which I remind you is made up of Member States. [[Mr. González Vázquez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] It is also collected in Articles 93 and 94; I have also, if you want to see them, put the articles on these issues to you. So we understand that this new architecture is much more about the CAP to the territories. This strategic plan, besides — and it is important that we all know — will allow it to suit the peculiarities of each territory, but that is when we have to enter, that is when Galicia, within the strategic plan by state, will have to meet its peculiarities, especially as regards the second pillar, which is rural development. Therefore, with this new approach to the CAP we are approaching our territory, and the time will come when we have to debate and discuss with other autonomous communities how we adapt the common agricultural policy to our peculiarities, those of our territory, those of our farmers and farmers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u333	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u334	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I see you very optimistic about the issue of sharing funds. I don't know, we're going to lose ten billion euros, possibly for Brexit, and the truth is, I see it very optimistic, because I think it's something that will affect us all at European level. With the elements you said, the Commission proposed, and in addition, it is in an article of what you have appointed, a greater subsidiarity within the framework of clear objectives agreed at the level of the European Union and of the states and regions. That is to say, it proposes to define objectives for achieving the CAP at European Union level, but also in each territory, and a general framework for intervention, which cannot be changed. But then he says that it will be the Member States that, depending on their agricultural and climate characteristics, will adapt the intervention mechanism to its reality. We understand that this should be the case, that it includes a greater presence in the design of the control framework and in compliance. And for example, Galicia could say how it configures basic spaces, adapting them, for example, to the country's structural and particular characteristics or our industrialization profile. Both the president and you saw that they're letting go of boredom. We saw it in the presentation that the president made on 10th -- I think it was before summer -- but in no case, in those days he did with the previous advisor, whether he talked about prices or whether he talked about a fairer distribution of direct payments. No one has spoken of the Greek farms that have never entered the pier 1 aid fund, and no one has spoken of what can be done to ensure that he is on equal terms with the rest, and no one has spoken of the review of European competition law. It's over time, and just telling you that a German plan would, strictly speaking, be a national plan, and I think, like other autonomous communities, like you did either Catalonia or the Basque Country, you should also come in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u335	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u336	Mr. Rodríguez, I would remind you that the institutional architecture of the European Union is based on member states. Article 93, which speaks of architecture and strategic plans of the CAP, literally states: "Each Member State shall establish a single strategic plan of the CAP for all its territory". If you confuse the representativeness of the regions and autonomous communities, in this case, in Europe, with what is the institutional architecture of the European Union, because I want you to tell it. But look, let's see: I think what we have here is that we all agree to defend our farmers and our owners and adopt a common position. So I ask your parliamentary group and I ask all the parliamentary groups that we join in the posture that defends the Council of Galicia. First of all, the Galician Union advocates lowering the operating limit of EUR 100 to EUR 60 000 in the area of aid, among other things, because the practice of all CAP applicants in Galicia is below that amount. Don't you agree with that? Well, that's what we signed. But the Galician Union also defends the historic rights of our farmers and livestock, because they are of the greatest importance in Spain; therefore, we have to defend those historic rights against other autonomous communities that do not want to defend those rights. Don't you agree with that, too? The Galician Council and this board also defend the maintenance of aid for the incorporation of young people. We also defend the maintenance of support for mountain areas and areas with natural limitations. And you know why? Because most of our farms are affected by these limitations. In short, we defend what we consider most appropriate for our farmers and livestock, and I would ask them to join you all in this common position. And I repeat to you: the question you are asking has a need — and it is important — on your premise, which is precisely the subject of the fact that there can be no strategic plans by autonomous communities. There is absolutely no possibility in accordance with Community legislation. So what I ask and say to you is that we all join together and make a unit to empower ourselves more strongly in the negotiation, both in the face of what can happen to the rest of the autonomous communities and also by supporting the Spanish State in the negotiation within the European Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u337	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of the evolution that has been presenting in recent years the presence of women in the maritime-fishing sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u338	You have the floor to Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u339	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We have a full talk -- practically monographic -- about women, about the fight against violence against women, about children, about work rights, equality, and, therefore, today, we are going to end this whole thing with a question related to women and the sea as well. It's very important to remember the role women played in the history of Galicia and the sea, you don't understand that sector without them. We also hear in the presence of the vice president announcing a battery of measures for women who suffer abuse and their children, and we also hear that all areas and all sectors of women must be protected and therefore from this parliament and from this government must always work for equality. That's what we have to do and what we want to do for all groups. As I said, to finish this session, we'll talk about women and the sea. In addition, today is World Fisheries Day — it also coincides with this very important day — it is a sector where women — the seafood workers, the cannery workers, the freezer workers, the processed products, which we also talk about in the previous plenary session — have a very important role in Galicia, have a very important role in the sector. More than twenty-five years ago, Junta has already started working in this field, especially with the professionalization of women's jobs and activities: the marishing women — as I said — are the ramparts, the packaging companies, the marketers... that is, Counsellor, is a world that is and is not understood without the work of women. We also know of the sensitivity you have, and your advisorship with your person in front of you, with a team almost integrated into your majority by women; therefore, a special sensitivity to direct contact with the sector and with women, listening to the demands. So we also highlight the bet that was made from the People's Party for the real quote that the seamstresss had so they could achieve — and they will achieve — a pension, the difference between other parties, who wanted to divide those contributions for hours, and it would be very difficult for the marmishers or women linked to the sea to have secured that pension. So we believe that the People's Party and the Galician Union are working day by day for the role of women in the sea sector. Visibility is also important. I wanted to highlight the woman's last lecture that was held here in Santiago, the Anmupesca, the Arousa women... i.e., they're celebrating days, they're celebrating days, they're getting to know each other, they're making that job visible. So, today, at the doors of the 25th N, which is the Day against Violence against Women, we also want to highlight the importance and effort of all the women connected to the sea in Galicia, and we wanted to know what valuation the Government of Galicia is doing and what work it is doing for the woman of the sea in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u341	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Egerique. Thank you very much for your question, and I, like you, want to add publicly also to the congratulations of all the collective that makes up the fishing world here in Galicia on your international day. With regard to what it has to do with women, as you will well understand, we have to make a very positive appraisal. For me it's always a pride to talk about the role women play in the workplace, but in the case of women in the world of the sea I do it with even more reason, and I still make a more positive rating, because in Galicia the woman represents five percent of the extractive fishing, represents seventy-five percent in the case of seafood on foot, represents twenty-five percent of the people who work in the aquaculture sector, eighty-four percent of the people who are engaged in repairing or networking and more than seventy percent of all the people who work in the processing or conservation factories. As you said, just two months ago in Galicia the second unified elections of the fishermen's confrereries were held; after analyzing the results of this electoral process, we see how the evolution of the woman's presence in the sector is positive and has increased its weight in the cabidos and in the general meetings by fifty-six percent. If it is true that you have lost weight in the positions of larger employers, until you have approximately ten percent of the representation, it is also true that the figure of the seawoman is consolidated and that you have a stronger voice than ever in the representative organs, decisive and consulting bodies of our sea. An evolution that follows its natural course, for, as you well know, the Galician Union — as Mrs Egerique reminded us — has been working for more than twenty-five years for the professionalization of the sector and the recognition of the rights of the marine woman. As an example, we can cite the Welsh project of Candieira cooperation, a network of support and promotion to the woman of the world of the sea that has allowed, first, to transmit to society her working situation; secondly, to give her knowledge of her social reality, addressing the problems and defining the main challenges and priorities they have in her future, and finally, to highlight her strategic role in the sector. I do not want to finish this first intervention without highlighting the celebration of this I International Conference of Women in Fisheries, a fact which I am particularly proud of, because from here, from Galicia, the ministry, FAO, the European Union and the Union, we all claim together to value the role of women in the sector, making Galicia the base port for the creation of a global network of women in the world of the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u342	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u343	Thank you, Counselor, for your information; thank you for your commitment to sea workers, which demonstrates, as I said before, every day. Galicia has always been a land, besides talking about doing; besides, a sea of little intentions and many facts, as we are in general women. And, therefore, all life being part of the women's mar-industry chain. And today, as I said, they require such visibility. On the other day, I attended a few days called Weeks, in which two short films were broadcast: one, Matria, and the other, The last beat, in which people — and women — are seen already of an age, who spent their whole lives devoted to the work of the sea. And the truth is, we saw what real heroines were, because, in addition to that effort that they had to do with the weather conditions that they always have before them, they had their families in charge and a series of activities that all women have behind them. So we see that there were many barriers to overcome, many glass ceilings to break, but we have to keep working. We must continue to work, as you and your team are doing, as I have said in this parliament. In addition, in Commission 8 we are also women, and we understand perfectly what the extra effort women have to make to work in the sea. So we wanted to tell you that we want to continue working on this equality. And in Ammupesca women claimed their place — you also said — they want no more or less, they want their place and they want equality and, therefore, equality that is real, that leaves Galicia in addition, and is an example throughout Europe. Counsellor, I would like to thank you for your work and your commitment — including the success of these days, because it has been a real success — and we want to work from here on equality, and for inclusive equality, in this case, and not sectarianism, that will never be in these ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close this question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Egerique. To conclude, I would just like to thank you not only for your words, but for your work and your effort, as well as for all the voices of all the groups that are part of the 8th Commission. I have to say that the celebration of this 1st International Conference of Women in Fisheries has served us as a point of reflection, but also as a point to teach us the world. I am especially proud of the good impression that the women who visited us from all continents have taken from the important work that women are doing from the different subsectors that make up that sea-industrial chain. I think it's a commitment, and I also want to take this opportunity today to thank the ministry and the women's network in Africa for the work they've done and the success they've had, too, by bringing that conference here, to Galicia. Not only during the day that the conference lasted, but in later days, they had the opportunity to see, live and live, how the seamstresses worked on the beach, how it worked on the Vigo strip, how they are diversifying their activity through the local fishing action groups. All of this made them take a pleasant impression of the effort we've made in the last twenty-five years, but we also have to recognize that we still have a lot of work to do. It is quite true — as I told you in the first intervention — that we already have a lot in certain sub-sectors of the sea-industry chain, but there are still many leaders left to achieve, more and more, high positions of responsibility are also occupied by women. I think a good starting point was that institutional statement that was made during the conference as a final broche. But I also want to understand that it's a starting point for many more to be held from this first conference, and every year we can continue, from Galicia, believing that we're still at the top positions in the ranking of what the woman has achieved in the sea world in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-11-21-DSPG093.u346	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. Finish the full here. Good afternoon, everyone.
