ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mrs Magdalena Barahona Martín and Mr Carlos López Crespo have justified the absence of the plenary session. Let's start with the agenda, first of all, legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of budgetary modification for the impulse of a plan to improve primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u2	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u3	Good morning. Galician public health is in a true state of emergency, not by chance, but by the policies being carried out by the People's Party. The surveys indicate that the assessment of Welsh health falls, and this, of course, is an indicator of the problems that is generating the health model of Fexóo and the People's Party, consisting of privatization, cuts and precarious health. Since the return to the People's Party's Union Government in 2009, it has done no more than to carry out strong cuts in the health budget, which has resulted in a worrying deterioration in the quality of Greek public health. Within this widespread deterioration, Galicia's primary care is being one of the main damages of these evil policies of the People's Party. All the decisions made were to the detriment of primary care as the fundamental axis of the health system, such as the gateway, as a key element of coordination for the health model to be sustainable. Primary care was the area of public health in Galicia that suffered more intensively the cuts that the Government of the People's Party made in health using the excuse of the crisis: 234 million euros less than those in 2009, with an accumulated cut of around 2,000 million euros. Hospital expenses are rising. Now that the People's Party has already presented in 2018 some health budgets in similar numbers as in 2009, nine years later we have similar budgets in 2009. Global health expenditure is starting to increase and, for its part, the cut made was much higher in primary care than in hospital spending. Nine years later primary care has 234 million euros less than in 2009. These cuts, of course, have consequences — and many, of course —: EUR 2 billion less invested in primary care. And that nine years later we have 234 million euros a year at least, of course you have to notice, of course, it's noticed: massification of consultations; professional coupons above the established; professional reduction; no replacement for retirement or vacation, no ILT, no other type of licenses or permits. The waiting lists for a week or ten days for the family doctor are usual. The People's Party has invented this fantastic question to say that it does not replace the pros of interstitutions, i.e., that the professional on the side handles two cups: his and one of the other professionals. Close schedules, saturations, professionals who have to go to some emergency need to leave their appointments abandoned for hours. Now the situation of the CAP professionals, who said "we've come here" is at present, where we see how they are at the limit of their capacity. The high level of overload and frustration between the professionals is brutal. The People's Party was reducing the functioning of the health system through the entrance door, which was where it had to have a much closer, agile, and resolute functioning. And there's a general feeling that primary care is moving towards a cryous deterioration. The evidence of progressive decapitalization of primary care is multiple and evident. These are not timely cases, as they want us to believe those responsible for Sergas, but they are the consequences of decisions that lead to structural deterioration of primary care, decisions that, of course, are not innocent but are the result of an ideological choice. This situation is reported by professionals, trade union organizations, associations, in addition to individual patients, who are seeing, alarmed and alarmed, deterioration of public health in Galicia in general and primary care in particular. Of course, at the BNG we consider a shift in the health policy of the People's Party and starting with the gateway, which is primary care. That's why we bring here today the debate of this law which proposes an immediate increase in resources for primary care, with an urgent budgetary change of 223 million euros, 19% more, simply to recover the count before the arrival of Faixóo to the Presidency of the Union. This budgetary change, of course, is not to solve the problems of primary care; it's just to make a brake and it means a change of pace. In 2009 primary care had an budget of 1,439 million euros, while in the 2018 budget for primary care this figure fell and simply has a count of 1,214 million euros. This bill proposes a series of amendments aimed at achieving resources for this plan to improve primary care, because the fall of resources in primary care in these nine years of the People's Party's Government in the Joint Assembly is a deteriorating situation and therefore urgent action is needed. We propose this increase of 223 million euros in respect of the budget for this year 2018 to implement urgently this year 2018, simply to implement this year 2018. This is therefore not an improvement plan either short or medium or long-term, but an emergency improvement plan for this year 2018, which means an inflection point, which means a brake on this deterioration process and the beginning of a recovery and improvement process. And these budgetary changes — for the increase of these resources — we propose that they take place through two channels: on the one hand, the introduction of tax amendments, and on the other hand the change in the state of expenditure of the budgets for the year 2018 in various councils. The change in taxes in which Galicia has regulatory capacity would provide 135 million euros and several items in the state of budget expenditure in several councils would provide 92 million euros. These are possible changes, since then at the BNG we believe that if they are, in fact, we are debating this law here today, with which it is legally possible; what it is necessary to have political will to do so, what it is necessary to see the need for our country's public health, that primary care needs this injection of resources, and that it is necessary to have political will to do so. Therefore, the introduction of tax amendments, what do we propose? Well, changes in the IRPF, so that we propose the introduction of greater progress on the autonomous scale, from which we would get 23 million euros, with a reform of the autonomic framework of the IRPF. The reform carried out in 2015 by the People's Party, despite being announced as a discount on low income, has made a lot of sense that this was so, with what we propose is a reform where the lowest incomes are lowered by this IRPF line, and what we propose is to go up the bottom income line. A higher tax rate for higher incomes, as incomes from between 47,600 and 60,000 euros range from 20.5% to 21.5% and income from 60,000 to 120,000 euros range from 21.5% to 24.5%. And I insist that we raise 23 million euros from there. Progressivity and pay more than you earn, we think it's fair that way. The next step we propose, in the property tax, and we set the minimum free instead of being in EUR 700,000, which goes down to EUR 300,000. We insist on the idea that he pays more than he has, and that's why we raise 37 million euros. What other measure do we propose? Derogate the change in succession tax approved in 2015 by the People's Party, which would involve raising 45 million euros. We would also propose to create the tax on large commercial areas, which would bring up EUR 30 million, which with this tax we propose is to record the economic impact capacity of large commercial establishments, a fact which is taxable on large surfaces, which in addition to being a totally unfair competition with our country's small trade, we believe that, of course, the tax taxation they have is really ridiculous, and with this measure we have reached EUR 30 million. I insist that with these tax measures we raise EUR 123 million and then with changes in the state of expenditure of different councils, which we think are less important than the need for primary care, we raise a figure of EUR 92 million. A proposal that seems very reasonable to us and measures to apply to primary care for specific things. First of all, for staffing, we consider it essential to increase the number of professionals in all categories, in all categories, in order to compensate for the massification of quotas, so that doctors, nurses and nurses have a maximum of 1,200 health cards; to put in place a policy of replacement of decent staff, which perform contracts for the real cause of absence and for the real time of it, not this infamous recruitment policy that a person has twenty contracts in a month, that contracts are made for hours or contracts per day; to allow access to diagnostic tests by primary care personnel; to improve the equipment of health care centres; to start training processes for the real needs of primary care professionals. Perennial issues essential in primary care. Of course, at the BNG we have very clear that we have to reverse the situation of cuts and privatizations carried out by the People's Party over the past few years, which is causing, of course, a generalized alarm situation, and we believe that the structural problem is not solved with bad patches, but with a change of course which necessarily implies a start-up of a primary care plan that reverses this whole series of cuts, which means providing sufficient staff with sufficient resources, and which puts an end to this indentation in primary care. A drowning, collapsed, non-resolved primary care that comes from a fragmentation of the system. I ask for the favourable vote for this modest bill tabled here today by the Galego Nationalist Block and I insist that it does not intend to solve all the problems, or much less, of primary care, which is to be implemented this year 2018, which aims to be an emergency action which means an inflexion point in that policy of cuts of the People's Party and that it changes the tendency that primary care is that great harmed by the cuts of the People's Party and that it means a change of course in that health policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Prado Colors. Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning. From the Socialist Group, based on our position, we will support this consideration of this proposal. We have some nuances, some discrepancies about the specific formulation itself, basically about the content of what the concrete proposal would be, but today the proposal is being taken into consideration and we are going to support it indisputably, because we basically share the need for a proposal in that sense. As we say, there is some discrepancy in the specific formulations, there is some nuance such as the derogation from the change in corporate tax, which we understand — we believe — even if the text does so, which refers to successions and prayers, and the removal of 75 million infrastructures, which also makes it difficult — of entry — to evaluate with good eyes. But, in any case, that would be part of the later processing, so consideration for us deserves support and so we will show it. From the PSdeG we share this fundamental idea of this bill. We have done work in this regard and we have also made a proposal to increase the budget in health through the debate on budgets. We proposed a cross-sectional amendment made, worked, based on a need for increased income and ease that could be achieved for greater indebtedness thanks to the increase in the expenditure ceiling, negotiated at the Congress of Deputies from the state budgets, and that our party fought until it got the People's Party to understand that it was necessary. The use of this increased expenditure ceiling could allow for an increase in income, which also, through an increase in own income, could allow for a greater number of incomes and devote them, especially those most needed social cohesion policies, which is that a context of macroeconomic recovery is moved to the need for recovery also of the social economy and the family economy, in this case in the health care sector, specifically. And we share this need, basically, because we've seen a problem that we've been demanding for a long time, that we've been complaining about primary care. From our point of view, the use of terms in primary care such as "entry door", "access", "fundamental pyar", are being emptied of content. Primary care is being neglected, certainly, because one thing is the big statements and another is the real commitments. And real commitments determine the real policy of governments and political parties, there's no difficulty in making big promises, but if there's any difficulty in making real commitments. And there this Government of Galician Union has some problems, because it really shows what his will is. And there are problems in primary care that we believe are essential to solve, basically in three aspects: infrastructure, personnel and the functions of professionals and health care professionals. In infrastructure. In recent budgets or PSdeG proposed an increase of approximately 20 million euros in infrastructure. Why? Because we believe that since the Primary Care Improvement Plan there has been no real defense of primary care infrastructures. There is a fulfilment of many repeated promises in the media, but they have no tangible reality, and they also leave health centres with difficulty in working properly. A lot of accessibility problems, space problems, problems, sometimes problems with the reuse of spaces that are not very suitable but that need to be used because professionals, who live each day, need those spaces and therefore have to adapt to conditions that are not really the necessary ones. In addition, there is a deficit not only in this quality of space, but in the number of health centres. You can't have a health center in every village, that's evidence, and all the claims will seem legitimate, but it's true that not all population centers should have a health center because they're very small population cores, and this is evidence. But what is not possible is to plan the design of the health centres and the network of the Galician health centers with squad and cardboard and a calculator on a desk, because you have to know a reality that is Galician, and Galicia has a very specific demographic and geographic reality, which needs, in addition, to address other historical deficits such as communications, such as the aging of our population, which has these difficulties to move and access, and therefore it is necessary to take this into account for infrastructure design. What do we think? There are no tricks. This is a necessary commitment, that there are no tricks; budget tricks basically like those used through the budgets of the Board systematically. For example, cut and paste literally, cut and paste to make budget memories. There are health centers that repeat systematically every year in memories, and a year or two it is possible to hide in what is so glorious that investments and infrastructures have, of course, a multi-annual character, obviously that they have. But multi-annuality is not just to launch press news, because there are health centers that have been announced four and five years and where they say they're going to do sometimes the solar isn't in title, and when it is, it's up there; four or five years announcing a health center that's not yet bid, it's not possible. And this happens. There are EUR 8 million in budgets for improvements and construction of new health centres, EUR 8 million throughout Galicia. But they're not even true, some of those games are modified to re-enter the Health Council's budgets in other places. They don't even run EUR 8 million a year in health centers, not even! What's going on? There are provinces -- for example, I've been going to put the one I know most, than my own, the one in Pontevedra -- which have about 2 million euros, about, for health centers in the province, and with these 2 million, they are advertised in media up to seven new health centers each year. Salceda, the Road, Caldas, could set a lot of examples. And yet all these are systematically announced every year, and every year it looks like it's going to be already, it's going to be already, and there's still difficulties in some of them. We cannot announce with 2 million euros the construction of 10,000 million health centres, because it is not possible, we are realistic, we adapt budgets to needs and therefore have a reasonable infrastructure policy. There are many promises, but there are few realities, the People's Party promises very well, does quite wrong. There's a problem, in addition, with staff. Citizens fundamentally see non-replacement. And there's a trick. One more trick. The truth is, there's a lot of fake documentary tricks lately. There's a basic trick about the personnel ratios -- fundamental -- that's where there's 100 patients a day for 3 doctors, the ratio says that each one has, because, not 33,3, but a clear division takes us to thirty and few for each of the doctors. And that's the basic design of the ratios that one lets say we're on an acceptable ratio. What's going on? Well, where there are six doctors, even where there are three, and, of course, where there are ten or twelve, they're not all working on the same day. There's some vacations, there's some bass, but there's never a reformulation of the ratios to assume that in the end, there's a normal attendance of 50, 55 or 60 patients a day, which definitely distances us from the ten minutes per patient that doctors and professionals have been demanding for a long time. And they come up to us five minutes per patient, without stopping almost or breathing. And it's not acceptable, because today everyone is aware that there's a lot of patients who need five minutes to almost enter, sit down and start a conversation with their doctor. And, therefore, we must increase the professionals of the system. Labour conditions are not being decent. The CAP, one of the key pillars — our small emergencies, as it has been called at some point — suffers from a problem of enormous job precariousness, with the worst-treated professionals in the system, and no one is paying attention to them. Pediatrics, which is a problem we all have, the pediatrics deficit, is not getting real attention from the government. They've been ruling for nine years and we've never heard a real plan yet to bet on pediatrics. We need to negotiate an increase in MIR squares, we need to develop policies of positive discrimination with the working conditions of pediatricians, even extra recruitment policies to cover the necessary spaces until we are able to form new pediatricians. That's to believe in the system and attention, especially the pediatrician. The rest are words. And this has a problem and some consequences, which is the disorder of the system. When we have overwhelmed, saturated primary care, with less staff than we should, with infrastructure deficits, what's the matter? That the urgents of the hospitals, that the consultations are filled, that the services of the hospitals are filled. Because the citizenry wants the problem to be solved. We can't blame citizens for going to hospitals' emergencies, as we do many times. What we need, basically, is to have a real primary care system, which can be the guarantee that the system is well-ordered. Because if primary care works, the system works. And on the other hand, if our head doctor doesn't work, the whole system is resuscated. And, therefore, it is necessary to bet on this improvement. And finally, it's also necessary to work on better functions, to equip our professionals with real skills, to give them skills so that professionals, doctors and doctors can have or ask for more diagnostic evidence, better diagnostic evidence, to release work from hospitals. It is also necessary to reformulate — and by the way, there is some ray of light lately — the nursing prescription decree, which our group has been demanding here for a long time — and in Madrid. And although in principle it was left alone, now it seems that there is a ray of light and hope so that you can modify something that was absolutely incomprehensible. We give more skills to professionals, because nurses and nurses, doctors and doctors, have a very powerful working capacity and have a very powerful training. All of them with title, eh!, and not invented. And they have a very powerful ability to work, and that's why we're able to give them more skills. Because if we get professionals to work and we don't give them the ability to develop their work, we're limiting them. If we limit them, we're harming the system. So let's give them all the skills they deserve, because that's how we can improve. In short, there are infrastructure, personnel and functions problems. I believe that some of them do not even need a purely budgetary debate, such as that of functions; the others, of course, do, because the commitments at the end are budgets. In the end, politics needs real commitment, which is to put time and money. And we bet on that, because it is necessary, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of this consideration and that is why we believe that this debate is necessary to show the position of each of the groups. It turns out, really, that some groups talk and other groups talk and do. But some groups talk and they don't, and that's necessary to make it manifest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u7	Our vote is positive for this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u8	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, you have the floor for Mrs Solo. I also inform you that today we are visited by third-party students from ESO from the centre of Vedra in the Coruña. Welcome to Parliament. Whenever you want, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and good morning to the students who accompany us. Public health makes water in our country. We saw him this weekend. We know that, in addition, we have health centers, many health centers, with problems of humidity, with problems of penguins and structural deficiencies. But at Ourense's wonderful hospital, they're looking forward to expanding, we had free fervors, Ferrovial courtesy and the Health Council, where the hospital users could make their delights in that spa. If we weren't humorous, we wouldn't have anything left, because it's incomprehensible -- and it's already happened when Vigo's new hospital was inaugurated last year at Lugo's hospital, in which we were also visiting the areas where there were such internal filtrations and boilings -- that new works give themselves situations like this. I don't know if the works are made for communities like Murcia or Canarias. But in Galicia it rains a lot, and unfortunately it is quite incomprehensible that new works are in that situation. We also had them during this weekend in non-new works, as in Monforte or as in Pontevedra, other places where health made water. And for us primary care, of course, also makes water since we were cutting our own management and administration capabilities, and of course also budgeting, we have commented on it on many occasions here, on staff deficiencies, on non-recovery of casualties, holidays and permits, for suffering a loss of professionals that accounts for 64.3% of the total number of places that have been amortized over the last few years and which is giving way to the problems that we see continuously, on lists of wait for a week, on the accumulation of appointments, on the part of professionals, as mentioned here, with 50 consultations and who have to leave also to the emergencies at home; a situation that I think does not deserve only the professionals and the professionals but also the whole of the Galicians and the Greeks. There are 50% massive quotas, in the case of medical professionals, that exceed those 1,500 cartridges. It's true that others are inferior, we've discussed it in the Health Committee at some point, but there's generally no proper planning. And, of course, the centers suffer a deterioration, we're seeing it every time there's bad weather but it's quite usual. Many of the health centers throughout our territory have relevant problems. We therefore consider it appropriate for the groups to make proposals. Today we are brought to this the Nationalist Block Galego understanding the need to take some kind of measure, some, with regard to primary care, because we have no news from the Health Council about the need for a plan to improve primary care, even if it's new and whatever the current government presents. In this sense, we are going to vote on it affirmatively. Because, in addition, we understand that there are few efforts we can make to, on a proposal from the opposition, try to fill in that void that the Government leaves, since there is no kind of planning, either in the short or in the medium term, how to address this situation of primary care itself. The proposal that brings the BNG to debate, for its consideration, is an eminently economic proposal. Practically all content is an economic content that proposes in the global a change in Title I of the Budget Act to alter the accounts devoted to investment in primary care, to increase it. We agree with the need to increase investment in primary care. We came from a budgetary debate half a year ago — less than half a year — about what these proposals had to be like. We have others, of course, which we have already done at its time, but in the global we can agree. It also touches on this proposal the expenditure of some instrumental entities, and the state of income, in Title II of the proposal. And we have — even though we are going to support it — some discrepancies about the economic aspects that the norm proposes, understanding that it is eminently an economic rule rather than a health rule itself. The cutoff digit that transfers from the beginning we consider to be non-real, because it is inferior to reality. We handle figures in real terms. The rule proposes a budgetary difference calculated without taking into account inflation, and therefore we understand that it could stow the 450 million euros needed, in this case, for this calculation, for this plan to improve primary care. We have some difficulty, some difference, about the budgetary technique that you propose, about the limitation that these taxes entail that you propose to join this investment in that primary care plan. It is quite limited to the collection — as it has already been moved by the proponent — of the IRPF's Italian tranche, and we understand that what really needs not only primary care but the overallity of public health and the rest of public services is to increase, of course, that investment through increased collection, but with the need for a fiscal reform that facilitates, let's say, that increase in resources for the public farm. We have discussed it in economic debates, in budgetary debates, and we have certain differences with the technique proposed here. However, we understand that it is good that this debate should be reopened because, of course, primary care is underfunded, health care, the public health system, and of course in that sense we also have proposals, like the rest of the groups, in that budgetary debate; a budgetary debate which has highlighted the progressive deterioration of those parts that are devoted to primary care. We have already made reference in some other debate to how in all provinces primary care is below 15% of the total investment in health care. We have a very important amount within the pharmaceutical expenditure. We have also discussed the need to open this debate. And in general primary care is increasingly different than it is proportionally invested in specialized care. And this leads us to a second part. We agree very much that we are talking about economic aspects, but we also find it relevant to the need to talk about merely health aspects, the design of the health system and how the planning of primary care is defined. The rapporteur referred to — and put it in the initial part — in the explanatory statement of the standard proposed by the Galego Nationalist Block today — where they believe and they must go to these investments. We believe that the subject should be dealt with more deeply, and we want the rest of the groups to vote on this proposal, which is taken into consideration, so that we can bring it closer to this. You've moved forward here, and I think there's a relevant debate around what has to be the health model. There is a change of health model, which we have moved on other occasions, of how the very nature of the system is moving towards a more hospital-centred system, more focused on specialized care and more focused on all those sectors that can be business niche fruit — unfortunately, during all these years in these budgetary measures. But there is also a relevant part that we believe that we should indisputably contemplate a primary care plan, which is the recovery of primary care agencies. We have come from the debate on the amendment of the Health Act. In that debate we anticipate — and the rest of the opposition groups tell us that too — the disagreement with which this decree was maintained which eliminated those primary care agencies so that I assumed a loss of resolution capacity and, of course, a management of primary care that prevents primary care from controlling the priority of waiting times, and that professionals who are also specialists — indeed, here accepted an amendment, but I said it in that debate — primary care professionals, doctors and doctors who are specialists — but it is not worth putting it into practice — control what are those priorities and the specialities in which they consult their patients. Because the reality is that this suppression of the agencies has subjected health centers to hospital services. And in many health areas, hospital heads are the ones that control largely the interconsultations and the derivations decided by the optional staff of these health centres. We believe that a primary care plan must necessarily contemplate the revision of the model, in addition to everything that has moved — rightly for us — in that statement of reasons, which is the need to improve those infrastructures. We have made a criticism of the absence of sufficient budgets for the whole of health centres and their deterioration, for the need for new health centres, and, of course, also for that increase of professionals in all categories, which is unfortunately completely abandoned for many years and is giving rise to this problem that we see from the absence of nursing professionals, medical professionals, midwives. There is, of course, the need to open the debate on expanding categories within primary care. I understand that not only have we long claimed that clinical psychologists and psychologists are part of these teams. We are going to vote on this bill. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I want to greet the Vedra students who visit us in the Chamber. The Galego Nationalist Block Group brings to this plenary a bill with which it intends to modify the budget of this year's Board to reach 223 million that compensate for the alleged loss of investments in the game dedicated to primary care between 2009 and 2018. So let us begin by analysing the programme's figures, the figures of the primary care programme, which is 412B, in these two budgets. The total difference, indeed, is that amount, 223 million; not 234, which the rapporteur said. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you know that departures are diminishing from those unrealistic and totally inflated budgets that have generated a deficit that we are still dragging out? We'd talk about staff costs. No, staff costs increase from 2009 to 2018 by 6 million euros. And it basically reduces a share, the share of expenditure in revenue, the use of generics and the various measures to rationalise the pharmaceutical benefit adopted. A total of 155 million euros are reduced. As a matter of fact, the 2018 budget does not cover the provision for the Continent Fund as a specific departure, which represents another EUR 54 million. Here you have the bulk of the decrease in the game for the primary care program, lowering the expenditure on recipes and not setting up the Continent Fund. That is the reality of budget figures that opposition quickly distorts to try to deceive citizenship about the reality of public health in Galicia. According to BNG, the collapses of hospital emergencies, or the alleged collapses during the winter, have to do with this decrease in primary care resources. I would like to know why the hemerothec reflects, as we have said on various occasions in this Parliament, that in the years 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 there were also collapses, so many or more of what is now. What do you mean, then, the investment for primary care was also scarce? To associate saturation of emergencies that occur in all hospitals in all autonomous communities and in all countries in certain seasons with supposed cuts in primary care is another of the usual fallacies of the opposition. And as solutions they propose to increase the number of optionals, reducing their quotas to 1,250 — I understand that they want to refer to family doctors, because pediatricians are below that quota — at a time when we all know the difficulty we have to achieve pediatricians or to achieve family medicine professionals — which at the moment is not too much. We're also talking about improving health care facilities. I can tell you that I've lived as a professional the whole evolution of change, the change of primary care in Galicia, and I have to say that with all governments of all colors primary care has always been improving in equipment. At present, ladies and gentlemen, there are 469 health centres in Galicia and 91 CAPs in addition to 061 for primary care. In all the Sergas health centers, approximately 38,000 people work; 1,544 workers more than in 2008. We're tired of listening here that we cut 1,000, 2,000 or 3,000, depending on who talked. No, there are 1,544 professionals more than in 2008. And that increase includes 7% more family doctors and 6% more nursing professionals. Between 2009 and 2017 there were 6,133 OPE squares in the different categories, and for this year 2018 there is a new call with 1,616 more squares, adding to the 6,100. In primary care, the consultation has improved greatly for professionals and citizens with the implementation of electronic clinical history, Ianus, and electronic recipe, which allows the family doctor to consult the entire history of any patient, and also allows him to consult the hospital history, diagnostic evidence and radiological image in high definition, which, of course, cannot be done in most autonomous communities in our country. Assemble, the phone call has been implemented. This significantly improved patient care, as well as professional care, because it prevents unnecessary consultations or unnecessary displacements, solves bureaucratic problems and solves minor health problems. And for the professional too, because he organizes his work in the consultation and he doesn't have the calls at any time and at any time, but they're perfectly structured. In 2017, a number of telephone consultations over 2,500,000 were held, with a resolution of 99.87%. As for the possibility of requesting diagnostic tests, there has also been significant progress in recent years, if it is true — and we want to show it — that we think that criteria should be unified in the different health areas, in the catalogues and in the application protocols, always assessing with scientific evidence the inclusion in new tests in the primary care petition portfolio. Primary health care doctors have access to all the medicines in the Catalogue, including innovations that are updated to the first month in the computer program. Of course, hospital diagnostics are not excluded here. Ladies and gentlemen, the daily activity of Sergas — daily — is summarized in these figures: 800 surgeons, 12,300 diagnostic tests, 20,500 hospital consultations, 5,200 hospital stays, 7,000 emergency rooms, 1,200 day hospitals and 300 home hospital care. And with regard to primary care: 103,500 daily consultations, and of them approximately 10,000 telephones, and more than 1.5 million annual emergencies attended to primary care in health centres or in CAPs, with a resolution of more than 91%. Those figures show the reality of public health in Galicia and they don't match the image of it that they want to transmit opposition groups, some trade unions and other collectives. Of course, all this would not be possible without the work of the professionals—magnificent work of the professionals!—but it would not be possible without the means either. Do you think that without primary care, 92 percent of the emergencies would be solved? I don't think so. As for the process of training future doctors — which has been mentioned here too — with regard to retirement forecasts in the coming years, a motion will be discussed in this plenary. But reality, Your Honor, tells us that there are now about 8,000 professionals, not specialists on the MIR route, who can't exercise in Spain; 8,000 medical graduates who don't have access to the public health system. The MIR Specialization System is recognized worldwide for its quality, and Spanish optionals are probably the best trained ones, but the basis of this training is the complete curriculum that all resident doctors have to develop and believe. Increasing the MIR squares excessively would lead to a decrease in quality in its formation. Number and quality must be combined, and in that sense the Health Council has asked the Ministry to increase the number and quality of medical specialists in family medicine and pediatrics. Mr. Torrado was talking about pediatricians. Of course, now we have a chance, because all autonomous communities have a pediatrician deficit. We can steal them from other communities. I believe that Balearics, now with the decree of Catalan versus formation, is easy. I'm going to talk to the Health Advisor so he can put the network in the Balearic Community to see if we're able to bring some pediatrician here. The Galician Nationalist Block Group proposes to increase the collection, of course, by raising taxes to the middle class and reducing spending in several games. What happens is they explained little: modifying the IRPF scale, but for rents from 35,000 euros. Not for rich very rich, for rents of 35,000 euros. And they quantify this amount in 23 million euros, when the Galego Institute of Statistics says that this would produce an increase of 8 million euros. And in Galicia it would have little impact. It has much more impact on the rise of this tax in Andalusia or in Extreme than it can have in Galicia. With regard to the increase in collection by property tax, they want to record their assets from €300,000, rather than from €700,000, which is what is at present. That drop in the minimum exemptions would have been equipped that would actually record high incomes, but also average incomes, including as contributors older people, with little wealth, fundamentally real estate, already loaded with taxes, and with low income; i.e., the biggest ones who have rental floors to survive the pension. This is a tax that saves money, and whose rate has been increased for the highest incomes in the 2013 budget in a consensus amendment with the Socialist Party. It also includes the elimination of inheritance tax subsidies and grants approved in Galicia by the Government of the People's Party and which were included in our program, although it could not be carried out until 2016 by the economic crisis. We believe that the bonus was claimed by the Greeks and the Greeks, especially middle incomes, and helped facilitate the acceptance of inheritances. And in the end, the tax on large commercial areas, the famous tax on which Europe is travelling, which is dubious legality, and we all have clear that who would pay that tax was us, every time we entered into that area. As the state of expenditure declines, the most curious thing is that they remove 74 million euros from the infrastructure game, which was already in the budgets for a road safety improvement plan. There they quoted at that time, with those 74 million, 57 works. The two of my Town Hall — Carballo — the variant and the crossing of the Casilla and the crossing of Bertoa, are almost 35. I'd like to see the Galego Nationalist Block explain to me how the remaining 55 works would be done with 40 million euros. The thing, of course, has some mathematical difficulty. There were other matches that I also summarize, ladies and gentlemen — and end —. We are not going to support the consideration of this bill, because, being aware that in health care, as in any other way, there is always a capacity for improvement and increase in investment, we believe that progress is being made in the development of primary care, and because we believe that raising taxes in the middle class in Greece is not the solution. On the other hand, the expenditure items that change we believe are necessary to develop the activity of the various councils and to meet the economic commitments previously acquired. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u12	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u13	Good morning. I greet the people who accompany us from the rostrum. I, first of all, want to thank the support expressed by En Marea and the PSOE, with nuances. Obviously, today BNG brings here a proposal. I said it was a proposal, and it could be another one, and I also said it was a proposal that wanted to show whether there was political will, because at the BNG we also gave the debate during the processing of budgets, we also presented amendments to a Primary Care Improvement Plan, but after the budget debate came all the chaos and all the collapse of emergencies, and after that came the whole claim of the professionals of the CAP and all the collapse and chaos of emergencies, which follows today. The U.S. Emergency Professionals made the situation public again yesterday. Tomorrow the BNG asks the councillor for the emergency situation here at the CHUS, a situation that doesn't stop. Obviously, we are facing a dynamic situation. Of course, the BNG is not going to stand by and allow the People's Party to consolidate its report that its roadmap is the only possible, that it is not possible to change anything in its health policy and that that fixed picture that intends to transfer us is the only possible one. No, it's possible to spend more money on our country's public health, and it's possible to change it, but it's a matter of priorities, and you have a priority, which is to dismantle the country's public health. I see, Mr. Núñez Centeno, that you have some magnificent data from the Council; repeat the story here constantly from magnificent data of interventions, numbers... Well, all right! All right, let's repeat it all the time, and maybe people can believe it. The reality out there is another; it's very different and very different. The reality of primary care: a huge overload of functions. Is electronic clinical history a good tool? Yes, of course, it's a good tool. What happened to the 10 minutes? Well, it's impossible. There's an overload of functions and a lack of crying time in professionals to perform them. How long do professionals have to explore, think, talk, interact, listen, propose, ask for evidence and take care of the patients? 10 minutes on average? No, you've been talked to here. No, no, no, no. And clinical history is a good instrument, but you have to dump the data there, and then you have to have time to analyze them, the ones you dump and the ones that turn other hospital care professionals and so on. And, of course, they don't have that time, you know they don't have that time. Increases in the highly-enhanced demand for care, which doesn't allow professionals to have that time. There's a lot of demand for assistance, among other things, because there's a very determined demographic situation in our country, which makes there a lot more demand for assistance. There's a loss of resolver capacity and a horrifying loss of budget, Mr. Núñez Centeno, it's obvious. Are there more professionals? Of course you won't be pediatricians, which is an extinct species, and you are doing absolutely nothing to improve that situation. A species in extinction! We can do here the report of professionals who are disappearing from our country's health centers, the disappearance of primary care from management agencies, which you have just consolidated with the approval of the amendment of the Health Act. And they're not, of course, in the concern or occupation of the EOXI managers, and now they're practically gone. They annihilated primary care and left it in a totally secondary role. And we bring here today this law that aims to be a budgetary change of urgency to give a touch of attention, because you are on your way to completely eliminating primary care. Look, the question is that this whole situation is explained only from the perspective that you are doing it with premeditation and alleviation. Because, of course, when there is a problem and it persists, and it's public and notorious — because it's public and notorious the situation of primary care — or whether it's a sadist or a psychopath. Because when there is a problem and they don't want to solve it, and they persist in doing the same, and they don't put in place a change of direction to reverse the situation -- and it's increasingly dramatic primary care -- it's not random this situation, but they don't want to take action, you're the ones who do it at all, knowing what they're doing. And you only have one explanation, that dismantling of primary care as the fundamental axis of the health system for that dismantling is to go to your roadmap, which is to seek the business for the glory of greater profit of private health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u15	It's over, Mr. President. You're very concerned about the economic proposal we make, because it's against the middle classes. Well, she doesn't care about stealing their pensions, she doesn't care about the compensation of medicines, she doesn't care about all the measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u17	...that they go against all the popular classes, the majority of society, the working class. And, of course, he's worried...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u19	...that we propose to increase the IRPF from 47,000 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u20	Thank you very much for your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u21	That I'd like to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u22	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u23	...that the middle class of this country had wages from 47,000 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u26	Let's move on to the next initiative. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 8/2012, of 29 June, of dwellings of Galicia, with the aim of establishing a compensatory mechanism for the impact of the property tax on leased persons in the public housing park of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u27	For the submission of the bill by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Pierres López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u28	Thank you, President. And good morning — I repeat — to everyone. The property tax consists of a direct municipal tax on the value of immovable property, as set out in Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, so that the recast text of the law regulating local estates is approved, and which, as a general rule, in the case of housing leases falls on the holders or owners. However, Article 6.3. at the end of this legal standard establishes the obligation for public administrations to have an impact on the share of the net share of the tax that corresponds to those who, having no passive subject status, make use by consideration of their debts or assets, taking into account the part of the cadastral value corresponding to the area used and the construction directly linked to each leased person. This legal provision affects housing tenants and tenants who are part of the Autonomous Community public housing park through the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, so that these people are the ones who economically bear the tax payments today when their obligation takes place. That is why we are now betraying this bill to this House, motivated by the defense of those groups of people with less economic resources, the most vulnerable people in our society. A proposal that we understand as necessary social justice, and it consonates the idea of favoring, or at least not recording more, the ones that have less. Because the annual property tax if it is a difficulty for many families, even more so for those who live rented in public promotion housing, precisely because it has shown that they cannot cope with the normal rental prices of the real estate free market and therefore with manifest difficulties in accessing a housing. [[Applause]] In fact, families with no more than 1.5 of IPREM opt only for the rent-adjudication scheme, not for the purchase-in. And in order to better visualize what we're talking about and to get closer to the reality of these families, let's look at the data and figures that accompany them in the type of higher-size rental housing that we offer to Junta, which corresponds to 90 square meters useful housing, with garage and with rock. Rentals in Galicia, according to the IPREM of the tenant and the location in question, can float between 105 and 325 euros per month. That is, a family of three members, with a single income earner, renting a housing of 90 square meters and, in most cases, with annual incomes of around 11,600 euros — or what is the same, 966 euros/month — has an average rent of 115 euros in the city, for example, in Pontevedra. Using real data from a community in this city, tenants with this profile would have to add to the amount of rent the expenses of community, water, garbage, heating, electricity and IBI; which places their spending on everything that has to do with housing maintenance in 360 euros monthly. This means, therefore, that these families spend only 37% of their monthly income on living expenses, and this is understood to be 606 euros available for the rest of the month's spending for three people. And that's the data, for the best of cases, of families with the only option of renting regime in that type of housing, which has income for 1.5 of the IPREM. But these homes also opt for minimum incomes below, even these figures, families with incomes of 0.7 of IPREM, i.e. about 5,450 euros a year, with monthly incomes of 454. If we discounted the 360 euros that we previously commented on, we're talking about the fact that they spend almost 80% of their income on housing expenses, leaving them 94 for the rest of the month's spending for three people. Those figures perfectly reflect the existence of many families, and I'm looking at it because it's not living, it's surviving evil. In fact, if we go to the IGE data, we see that in 2016 there were 442,000 families who recognized that they could not afford to keep their housing at a suitable temperature; 442,000 people in this situation, that's just a barbarity. And that's because this figure derives from many of the families with very incomes above the incomes we're talking about if you're forced to dispense with heating costs so you can get to the end of the month, which further reinforces the serious difficulties of users of this type of rental formula. And it's also a barbarity that was 136,000 families who show that they were late in paying for expenses related to the principal housing: with mortgage, rent, gas, the community... data and figures that find, therefore, that these difficulties affect not only 3,000 families who rent housing from the public housing park, but a lot more. But it's true that for the first to assume a tax such as the IBI's in the case of lower incomes, it's up to 7% of its impact on income. And this tells them real, with data from real people going through complicated personal situations, with children or dependent people at their place of work, and that despite the help they have to survive in the day to day by making real balances with numbers. The fact is that this year, as in the past, it has been found that in reality of many tenants in these housing communities the impact of the IBI has in many cases exceeded the price of its monthly rent three times. Something that we can understand is a hard blow to the economy of families, especially those located in the lowest rent tranches; therefore, let's be clear, who doesn't, can't, is that simple. And we believe that it is mandatory for this Parliament to seek and propose solutions for the most vulnerable groups. And we sincerely hope from the Socialist Group to which I represent, that all groups — and especially the Government — will meet this social demand and support the consideration of this bill. And here I suppose there will be some group that can argue that it's the municipalities that are under the IBI, using their powers and the bonuses that the law authorizes. In this sense, we will also be clear from this parliamentary group, and we cannot misjudge the objective. The municipalities have one of their most important sources of funding in the IBI, and that funding is precisely what makes it possible for the municipalities to offer, among other things, better services to their neighbours and neighbours, among other things, the strengthening of social services to which the attention of the most vulnerable groups is directed. So, what we clearly request today is that the Galician board develop a way of clearing that IBI for tenants of this type of housing, as well as for others of a care or insertion nature. A measure which, in addition, involves the reservation of a small budget share by the Galician Board in relation to its annual budget. And I think that we have to be reasonable about this and agree that this is a measure of political will, not numbers that don't match. Because, I insist, we are talking about that the impact of this measure would affect tenants and tenants of the 3,000 housing units that are part of the autonomous self-inhabitation public park in Galicia. A measure which, by the way, has already been taken forward in July last year in the Community of Madrid. So I take an example and I imitate what they did well, and take care to take too much of what they didn't do, because then what happens to Mrs. Cifuentes, who so influenced the globe of her training that eventually exploded in her face. And it's a shame, because she showed in this case what we once said, that in order to make social policy, it's not necessary to have masters in the field, but simply political will. [[Applause]] And the fact is that from a legal or regulatory point of view today there is no rule that prevents this economic burden of IBI tax from falling on a group of people with limited economic resources, their own precarious situation that allows them, precisely, to access a rental of public promotion housing. And no measure is envisaged for the housing arrangements already provided for in the 2014 Housing Act, such as the care or integration housing, for which we believe that this measure should also be regulated because it is housing promoted by the IGVS in collaboration with other public administrations or non-profit entities for social programs; therefore addressed to specific groups — such as older persons, women victims of gender violence... — or for temporary reallocations, as well as for those who require special attention in personal, economic or social circumstances. And nowadays only local authorities must regulate the introduction of certain subsidies for official shelters, or be equated with them by autonomous legislation. But it is only mandatory to establish it by the municipalities for three tax periods, and only reaches 50% of the full quota, in addition to having a begging character. It is therefore at the will of each council to maintain, subsequently, the same bonus in full quota as the loss which it means for local authorities applying the tax benefit of economic resources. In another band, as pointed out in Law 8/2012, of June 29, Galician housing, says: "The right to the enjoyment of a decent and appropriate housing is recognized with constitutional rank in article 47 of the vegent Constitution of 1978. Its regulation in the area of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the content of Article 27 of the Statute of Autonomy for Galicia, is an exclusive competence of that". The Autonomous Community therefore has exclusive competence to design its housing policy in the case of protected housing. The housing policy has a marked social character, which is affected in its effectiveness by tax rules of preceptive application. So, in order to ensure on the one hand that the State powers in tax matters and, on the other hand, to extend the protection of those people who, because they are in a more disadvantaged economic situation, have agreed to rent a housing in the public housing park, we propose to establish the establishment of a compensatory mechanism, of a non-tax nature, of an amount equivalent to the share of property tax, which must be legally subject to repercussions. With the aim of getting this compensatory mechanism to produce the greatest benefit on the people to whom it is directed, it articulates in such a way that the amount that must be paid in terms of IBI is reduced proportionally on the account of the monthly income that the tenants must satisfy. It is therefore sought to amend Law 8/2012, of June 29, of Galicia's residence, and it remains as follows. Point 1. As for the lease of immovable property intended for housing and attachments which are part of the self-employed public housing park, the Galego de Vivenda Institute and Solo will apply a reduction in monthly income, excluding taxes, charges and legally repertoirable expenses, which must be paid for rent by its tenants, for an amount equivalent to 100% of the count that should be reflected in the net share of immovable property tax; as well as in the proportional part of the tax on added value in cases where immovable property tax is part of the taxable base of the property. Point 2. The compensation referred to in the above paragraph shall extend to immovable property which is qualified as housing for insertion or assistance, as well as to those which may be used by legal, public or private persons, without a profit, in accordance with Articles 49 and 50.4 of this law. Exceptionally on the basis of duly justified grounds of social interest, an equivalent compensation may be established on a regular basis for those who have access to the property of public promotion housing in the way of acquisition or deferred access, when it is believed to be in an unfavourable economic situation. These three articles mentioned here sum up, therefore, the end of this request to take into account this bill, which because of the high impact it will have on the economies of the most disadvantaged families, we understand that it must be seriously considered and supported by all groups. This is another opportunity to show the Greeks and the Greeks that this House, the politicians and politicians we are here, we know, we feel, and we raise awareness of those who are the most difficult to make. And allow me to ask you today, in addition, to stop making this House a place of struggle and exhibition of personal or group protagonists, and to know all of us and all of us being aware of what people are asking us to do, which is to put them and them in the center of the debate, not the other way around. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Round of the other parliamentary groups. We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning. BNG will, of course, support the consideration of this bill, which also has an immediate and close background to that law which it adopted in July 2017 by the Parliament of the Madrid Community. That is why someone accused the group of copying and following up the community, because he actually approved a mechanism of a non-taxable nature that would not compensate for the mandatory impact of this property tax on leased persons of social housing or public protection housing. I don't think you can be accused of following the Socialist Group. This follow-up, this copy, especially of the Cifuentes model, is more of the People's Party of Galicia. We know of the enthusiasm and sympathy that awakens Mrs. Cristina Cifuentes on the benches of the People's Group, and we have been able to check it recently in that Swiss conclave in what some of those who were here, I suppose, have shown that sympathy and enthusiasm for the new Agustina de Aragon that is Mrs. Cifuentes. You have been hailed there in Seville, and Mr. Feijóo has also made very kind, very sympathetic statements and defenders of this pre-clarant leader of the People's Party, and I suppose they also endorse and defend the Cifuentes system of achieving university degrees because they also practice it with great enthusiasm. It seems that other leaders of the People's Party are also targeting this line Cifuentes. Mr. Tellado doesn't know if he's also on the Cifuentes line, but, you see, there's certainly more cases besides... doing something really ugly, and not just... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u31	Quiet. Mr. Bará, please take two minutes, go to the question! I appreciate it. You can make the necessary joke everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u32	...we're talking about Madrid politics, and not only do they offend the image of institutions and public university, but they also tarnish the good name of the Emeritus King of Spain, Juan Carlos I of Borbón, and that, you who are so monarchic, should not do it. [[Murmurs.]] He's done enough for the Monarchy to foul his pretty old manly picture. [[Murmurs.]] Let's take the case, Mr. President, as the Lazarillo de Tormes said. Let's go! We are convinced that the PSOE does not act by following the Cifuentes system. In fact, there are clear differences between the text adopted at the Madrid Assembly and what the Socialist Group proposes here. For example, in Madrid there were other issues of housing law reform such as the abolition of rentals with option to purchase, and in the public housing sale scheme, the preferred purchase right was established for individuals, for groups, for entities, dedicated to protected housing management... other issues. The Socialist Group here proposes, in addition to the main objective, that it is this compensation mechanism in the case of public protection housing, as well as other forms of exemption or compensation. This measure is not in the election program of the People's Party of 2016, but as we know that there is such a direct connection between the Madrid PP and the Galician PP, especially to receive orders and instructions, we understand that there will be no problem in accepting this law as well. The BNG — as I have said — will support it because it seems to us a positive starting point for solving an anomaly, injustice, and in addition to the subsequent safe process that there may be closer to improving the text and allowing it to include other issues that also have to do with other housing problems and public housing policies. Of course, it was clear in the presentation by the rapporteur of the Socialist Party that the nonsense, the absurdity, the contradiction that is, if you really intend to have a public policy that caters to people and families with lower incomes, a tax that can exceed EUR 400 per year, which multiplies by three or four what people who have this type of housing monthly pay. The case of Valdecorvos' social housing in Pontevedra, where the IGVS had recently laid down a period of less than a month for the people holding these leases to make a payment and, if not, warned by the executive route. Then there was an agreement in the middle of Pontevedra and at least the fractionation was achieved. We also don't know what politics follows the Galician Union and the council on that bonus provided for by law, 50% in the first three years, and this possibility is used. So it seems to us that it is absolutely logical, reasonable and fair that the Administration should be the owner of the payment. It seems also feasible because Galicia has full competence in housing policy; it also has full financial capacity to face a cost that is not such a high amount; and it also has that financial and budgetary capacity because it does not even perform much of the games, for example, in the rehabilitation and quality of the housing, which in the last five years has only reached an average execution of 20%. So there are resources, without any problem, to be able to deal with these payments. And there is also a legal formula that has already explored and approved the Madrid Community, which is this non-tributory mechanism of compensation with the reduction in monthly income that allows you to cope with this measure. Then there is a deeper question, or a few more substantive questions, that have to do with, for example, the State Law on Public Property, which was adopted in 2004, that recast text, which is precisely what makes that obligation of the IBI part of the Administration to lease persons of public protection housing. I think the logical consequence is that we should demand and demand the Government of the State to change this law in order to avoid this nonsense, and more now, when the reform of this law is under discussion, for example, to take into account such issues as those that have to do with the refund of the amounts collected by the municipalities in relation to the taxation of surpluses, and when the reform of this law is also under discussion in order to really, seriously and with measures and solutions, the problem that has to do with local funding and which requires a response by state law. And then, logically, the processing of this bill would also be a good opportunity to have a debate that needs about public housing policies and the number of issues that have to do with both the state law, as well as the Greek law, as with the plan of living of the Government of Greece, which are still unresolved, and which have to do with the denials, which have to do with public housing policy in relation to rental, with the inability that it is demonstrating to the Union to take out the rental housing market, let's no longer say by such scarce policies of promoting public housing by the Government of Greece. Finally, the BNG — as it could not otherwise — will support this measure because it seems to us a fair measure, a necessary measure and a positive measure to address the situation of those who really need the decisions of the public institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u34	Good morning to all of you. We are talking a lot about fiscal policy, about the fiscal policy of the People's Party - Mr Núñez Centeno has said before - the policy that favours the middle classes, the policy of the People's Party of Tax Amnesty to Rat and to the Bárcens, is to rise the IVE and triple the IBI's collection in rural Galicia since the crisis began. That's what favors middle classes; middle classes like Rat, Bárcenas and all their colleagues. Then we're also talking about a proposal to amend a law that has its background in the Community of Madrid. The Community of Madrid approved this non-tax compensation after making a reduction in the public housing park for selling public housing, hundreds of public housing, to voluntary funds. That is the policy of the People's Party, and now they intend to come up with these issues. So the housing for us is one of the most essential elements for the life of a human being. It is collected in article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, which both invokes when they are interested and forgets when they are not interested. So this proposed amendment will count on our support, because it makes every sense that people rent these homes, which are precisely because they have economic difficulties, because they have little income, they don't have to face or be penalized for the IBI's collection. We are therefore going to support the admission of this bill, and we are going to do it because it deals, even if not too transcendently, with one of the most serious problems in this country today: not to guarantee the right to a housing worthy of all and all citizens, and this is only by chance. If today in this country there are thousands of men and women who do not have this guaranteed right, who do not have the right to live, it is no coincidence; it is for the policies that have been developed in this country for so many years. So we have brought to this House and Congress initiatives in the same sense or similar to what the Socialist Party does today. We also brought two about the IBI, here and in the Congress of Deputies. First, to change the laws in the sense that IBI bonuses were allowed depending on income, with the aim of favoring people with less income and more economic difficulties. The second, to urge the Government of the State to develop the concept of empty housing on a regular basis and to allow municipalities that wish to apply the bonuses to empty housing on a regular basis. I mean, we made an initiative to enforce the law, to have the People's Party comply with the law. How naive we are! The People's Party blocked this initiative at the Congress of Deputies, and so today the empty housing of the great owners of housing remains as cheap as before the crisis, and so no tool can be given to the municipalities to record the empty dwellings and, therefore, have one more element to mobilize the empty housing, one of the great problems in this country. The People's Party doesn't want to, rather than the banks going out so cheap to keep an empty house, while some people are being expelled from their homes. The housing policy of the Galician Union is also reflected in the size of the rental public park; just over 3,000 homes in a set of 1,600,000 dwellings in this country, an absolutely ridiculous and shallow percentage, which has no comparison to European countries, where there were policies that defended the right of housing above the housing as a business. At these times, when the prices of renters rise and do not rise the wages, when the prices of renters rise and the stability of young people at work does not rise, what mechanisms does this government have to regulate those prices? None. Do you have a public park capable of regulating housing prices in this country? No; 3,000 over 1,600,000 is quite shallow for this target. Even though there were thousands of houses rescued with public money from the banks, to get the banks out of those homes that they didn't want to have, despite that, this government never intended to create a public rental park so that people could have a home at an affordable price. The law of urban leases could also regulate rent prices. But no, on the contrary. In 2013 the People's Party is making a reform that generates more instability in tenants. Instead of having extended contracts for five years, they go on to three years. And instead of referring the price rises of the rent to the IPC, they give freedom to make any kind of climb; so last year they went up all over the country, across Galicia, over 6% the prices of the renters, and in the cities where there is demand, much more. So, of course, investors increased by 8% of their investments to build or to get housing and then to put into rental. That's why we kept building the lease bubble after the building bubble, which had the results we all knew, so dramatic. It could be another mechanism to regulate prices for public land ownership policy. Public soil heritages which, as well as regulatory instruments of the soil and housing market, should have a key role in the instruments of rehabilitation actions, as one of the axes on which public policies should be piloted. But what did Mr. Feijóo do as soon as he reached Galician Union? He made a reform of the Housing Act, approving Law 8/2012, where in his additional ninth provision, he gave a new wording to article 47 of the Louga, lowered the percentage of soil reserve for protected housing. By this provision, he reduced the percentage of public housing reserve set by the previous 2008 government bipartisan. But not only that, but it allowed him to lower even the percentage with respect to which state legislation is fixed. In fact, the municipalities could decide to lower that soil reserve that should serve to make public administrations able to regulate the housing price at this time, and with their policies they remove elements from the public sector in order to ensure the right to housing of the Greeks and the Greeks. And so the whole set of laws and policies that set up the antisocial model in the service of speculation. And ten years after the explosion of the real estate bubble, the bailout banks, but people are still being kicked out of their homes because of governments that are taking part in the big speculators. In 2017, there's no need to forget, Galicia was once again launched by the people of its homes. Ten years after the start of the crisis, they repeat the defeats again. The data is demolition. Not only is it a serious problem, but it's because of the impediment of young people to emancipate themselves, to have vital projects. You guys who talk about the demographics of this country, how will people be encouraged to have children and children if there's no stable work, if there's no housing to go to, if there's no housing that can be paid? How do you think young people can think of medium- and long-term projects under these conditions? So while the People's Party goes wrong, maintaining the structural conditions that cause this serious problem, it will continue to maintain policies and continue to increase rent prices, and there will be more people working on speculation. Policies to make up what the People's Party is doing at home. He's not worried about the problem of housing for the People's Party, he's worried about how much electoral wear this can cause him. That's why he spends more on advertising and propaganda than on effective policies. And this is literal, it's not a word: it's literal! That is, the Star program of the People's Party, Empty Housing Program, which so much money cost to advertise, ran last year EUR 10,499 of 300,000, its Star program, Empty Housing Program, 3.54% of its execution. That's the makeup policy we're talking about, and in the meantime, you're still serving as a parapet for banks and large housing owners to keep speculating. Nothing else. Finally, we will support this initiative, which is not going to solve the whole problem at once, but will contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia presents in this House, by the voice of its honourable Member, a bill with the objective that all Spaniards have the right to enjoy a decent and adequate housing, article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with you. It is undoubtedly a debate of great importance to this parliamentary group, also hoping that it will be for the members of the different tide movements and that they will be identified with our 78th Magnificent Charter. Mr. Bará, to be your nationalist, he's more concerned about what's going on in Spain's capital than what's happening five meters from you in Galicia's capital. Not to mention the non-presence in the acts that are housed here in the Galician Parliament, the Greek institution. [[Applause]] I don't know if you know that the Galician Parliament's medals have been delivered to social groups. You're not interested in such acts, you're interested in other kinds of acts where you're most comfortable, in Cuban acts. Mr. Sánchez, of public promotion housing, you know a lot in the community of Madrid, if not, ask your spokesperson at the Senate, Mr. Espinar, who has profited from a decent public housing. Anyway, ladies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u37	I am silent to all Members, who are speaking to one honourable Member. Thank you all very much for your opinions. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, they will agree with the People's Parliamentary Group that budgets reflect the perfect guide for responsible, serious and committed government with Galicia. I know you're not funny about this kind of statement, but it is. The year 2018 was, thanks to the Government chaired by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, the third consecutive with expansive budgets, namely 9,487 to achieve the well-being of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I remember this figure because it often questions the great work that the Government of Greece is doing on the left side of this House. In short, that increase of what I've been talking about moves — as it could not be otherwise — to all the councils that make up the Galician Union, highlighting this increase in social councils, such as health, education, social policies and, as otherwise, housing. The budget of the Infrastructure and Living Council is the largest in 2018, with a 16.5% increase in relative terms, up to EUR 424 million. These are real data, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the partisan arguments we often hear in each plenary session. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo has about 93 million euros, almost 5% more than in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to go deep into this bill and I would like you to consider three issues that will bring us to the really important issue. The autonomous government is committed with three basic lines, such as the bonus of renters, the creation of public promotion housing, and, as it does not, the commitment of the whole agreements. The first one. Mrs. Pierres, I don't know any ambition at your initiative, and I'm going to comment on why. You used to set an example for the Madrid community. I remind you that rental housing owned by the Autonomous Community of Galicia has a reduction in income far above what you demand, hence the low ambition. To highlight yet the effort that the Galician Union is making, I would like to set a real example of what this board is doing through the lease subsidies. A dwelling located in Santiago de Compostela, about 90 square meters, with an assigned value for the rent of around EUR 61,500, initially accounts for about EUR 758 per square metre, when in Santiago, ladies, the value of the square metro market around 1,400 euros. Thanks to the work done by the Galician Union, the housing we're looking at is paying 92.32 euros a month, compared to 169.26 that would have to pay a family if it didn't have a bonus. After this brief analysis, we first-hand check that responsibility and seriousness are part of this government. The second line I want to look at is the creation of public promotion housing. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, as a promoter of these dwellings, is making an important effort for its construction, for its maintenance, and also by blessing 50% of the income established for those dwellings. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual investment of maintenance and bonus by this council exceeds EUR 3 million and means. I remind you that a recent initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group for the establishment of modular housing construction has been introduced in this Parliament, which has not even been supported. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that they do not care or care about the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks in the matter of housing. To have a great example that they're not interested in access to decent housing, there's no more to see what happens in the Herculina city. The Galician Union is still waiting for Mr. Ferreiro through the license to begin the construction of 40 public promotion homes in the Olympic Park of the Crown. This action reflects that, unlike the local government, the priority of the Government of Galicia is to protect the collectives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u39	Silence! Quiet, please. We're in a debate and there's a deputy... [[Murmurs.]] I am silent to all Members! There are many spokespersons who want to intervene. Then get on the queue and intervene by your groups! There's a voicemail in the use of the word. I ask everyone to shut up and listen, they like it or they don't like what they're listening to, and then they'll have their turn to beat up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. This action reflects — as I was commenting on the 40 public promotion homes of the Olympic Park of the Crown — that, unlike the local government, the priority of the Greek Government is to protect vulnerable groups by providing housing for families at risk of losing it. Measures such as the Mortgage Relocation Program, the Social Rental Bonus or even the Empty Housing Program show that the Autonomous Administration has a plan of action against evictions. I know you're upset, Mr. Sánchez, but that's the truth. Attention to the most disadvantaged is also given to the provision of new public promotion housing, for which the Galego de Vivenda Institute has EUR 7 million. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a commitment by the most vulnerable families; this, gentlemen, is a commitment by Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] The third point we want to discuss, on how the defense of the vulnerable families of the IBI should be articulated, is already expressed by an initiative which has been unanimously adopted in this legislation. We believe — and so they have also recently believed — that the Socialist Party and the rest of the opposition; here I can show you the letter sent and signed by the councillor of Fairy and the President of the Fegamp, where he gives passage to the plenary agreement of November 23, 2016 — that the best option is to amend the Law on Local Farms, to allow the municipalities to establish exemptions in the IBI to families with greater economic difficulties. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a document.]] I'm surprised that the proposed group seeks to reduce the tax for families that have a public promotion housing. Mrs. Pierres, what about the rest of the families with economic difficulties who have no public promotion housing? The Union, in coordination with the Fegamp, has already asked the Ministry for this legal reform and, even if it did not happen at the moment, we continue to insist on defending it, because we believe that this is the most appropriate solution, and without changing your mind, as you intend to do. [[Murmurs.]] From the People's Parliamentary Group we thank the great work being done by the Infrastructure and Living Council, with the highest priority being to protect the most vulnerable groups, making it easier for families who are at risk of losing it. The Galician Union always remains committed to providing help to all those affected who meet the requirements and apply for it, whether for rent or mortgage compensation. The People's Parliamentary Group will continue to defend the reform of Article 74.2 of the recast text of the Law regulating local farms and include a positive bonus of habitual housing, up to 90% of the full tax quota for taxable persons, believing an economic situation of insufficiency of income. It seems that for the Socialist Group they only count — as I said before and felt wrong to them — families with housing for public promotion in order to have that benefit. For the People's Group, all families are economically undernourished. And to finish, Mr President, the position of the parliamentary group that supports the self-government is the defense of the most vulnerable families so that they can achieve the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u41	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Parliamentary Group Socialist Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u42	Thank you, President. First, it is important to thank the support of the groups that have shown support (the BNG Group and the En Marea Group). With the spokesperson for the People's Party I'm still thinking about how to answer it, but I think I'm going to be elegant, I think I'm going to be elegant; yes, I'm going to be elegant, because you've made a lot of mistakes of concept and understanding which I honestly find surprising. Thank you very much, indeed, for not being grateful, for the Government's lack of support in a way that had so little economic impact on the self-government, but that it was so important for those who would benefit from it. The People's Party, with arguments that have roused — in my view — the political obscenity, by none of the economically ridiculous, economically ridiculous measures, and by the arguments raised by its spokesperson. She's a little ambitious, so taking it into consideration doesn't prevent that proposal from getting better after. In these days, in fact, many — and I want to tell you — people contacted, tenants of public promotion buildings, many were invited to come to this House today and to attend this debate, but the truth is that many, with very precarious jobs, could not leave their jobs, and so many, in unemployment, could not afford to spend the displacement to this House from their villages or cities. [[Applause]] That's the reality of these people, who live in the greatest precariousness, without even the ability to claim or safeguard their rights, because it seems that even for that we have to have money. And this proposal to amend Galician Housing Law would affect not a few people; we estimate below that about 10,000 people would benefit directly or indirectly from this measure. I think this is the motivation we should all hold on to, that of the social welfare and the release of tax charges to the more than 3,000 families that would benefit themselves, the less resources they have from Galicia. And I recall here again that this measure has already been put in place in the Community of Madrid; yes, but it is also necessary to clarify that it did not have the same motivation. In the case of the Madrid Community, the original reason for implementing the law was the non-claiming of the payment since 2009, by Mrs Aguirre and Mr González, of the quotas of the IBI to more than 23,000 tenants, and it was a complaint by the Court of Auditors of the years not prescribed, i.e. four years to which this measure was activated. In fact, in May 2016 on the agenda of the Special Council of the Social Housing Agency, the People's Group took the proposal for the payment of the debt by tenants, and it was this matter warned by the Socialist Group, who conquered the rectification of the agenda and the subsequent statements by Mrs. Cifuentes committed to finding a solution, because, no doubt, the payment of these four years accumulated by the IBI meant a smallpox to the most vulnerable families, because they were very high quotas. [[Applause]] That's the disability. And the inability to have your plan — see Mrs Cifuentes’s — to demand that the municipalities who took down 95% of the IBI, is what led Mrs Cifuentes definitely to the drafting of this law and to the application of this compensatory measure in the rental of the IBI. And we rejoice, not on the way to that end, but on the final outcome, which is what counts in this case for Madridns and Madridns. And also making it clear that this measure is economically feasible for this government, for the Greeks and the Greeks, it must be pointed out that, from around 483 million euros raised in Galicia annually by the IBI, we are talking about that the Government of the Alliance of Galicia would have to assume, according to estimates, about EUR 800,000, which does not reach 0.16 % of the total IBI collected in Galicia. Ridiculous? Yes, but necessary for many families. A figure that is comparable to 70% of the budget for advertising and propaganda by this government and much below the actually executed for this purpose, which, as we all know here, is much more. These EUR 800,000, in fact, are as feasible as last year in line 451B, precisely from access to housing, they stopped running 3.15 million, a 43% rate of execution, but in 2016 there were 6 million left to be executed, and in 2015, 32 million. In short, he didn't even know 2% of everything he stopped running on housing access in the last three years alone. An unwarranted decision that places this program at the lowest execution indexes of the entire Galician board budget. It is a demonstration of the ineffectiveness in the design of policies applied to access to housing, which is undoubtedly another reason to take on and include these other kinds of measures, fully justified by their marked social character. 800,000 euros, 0.007% of the total annual budget, a percentage which makes it clear that the impulse or brake of this law cannot at all be based on budgetary impediments. It's just a matter of standing next to the people or not. And to show that political will is the one which I am pleased to have recognized in the BNG and En Marea groups, and to miss the Popular Group's support. I am sorry to express myself in these terms, but to deny this measure frankly — I repeat — a political obscenity, especially because its refusal has no explanation beyond the political will, and today you have left it at home, which you, like me, can afford. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. We shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u44	First of all, we voted to take account of the proposed legislation of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of budgetary modification for the impulse of a plan to improve primary care [[Votation.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u45	We are now voting on the proposal for a regulation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 8/2012, of 29 June, of dwellings of Galicia, with the aim of establishing a compensatory mechanism for the impact of the property tax on leased persons in the public housing park of the Autonomous Community of Galicia [[Votation.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u46	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to the second point of the agenda, appearances, that accumulate. Like Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the implementation of the status category of nurse/specialist Like Mr Health Adviser, at the request of the parliamentary groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea, to account for the privatization of health services in the EOXI of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u47	The Health Counsellor has the floor to make this appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u48	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I compare, on my own request, to report on the implementation of the status category of nurses/specialists and also the request, of the BNG and En Marea, about the so-called privatization of health services in the EOXI of the Coruña. As for the implementation of the status category of nurse/specialist, I will begin with the current policy framework. The constant evolution that has experienced scientific knowledge, technical media and the health system itself, as well as the modification of epidemiological patterns, the evolution of the population pyramid and the needs of specialized care and care that users of the Galician Health Service require, determined the need for the introduction into the public health system of the nursing specialties. For us, nursing is a basic piar in the care of chronic patients. Thus, according to Law 44/2003 of 21 November 2003 on the management of health professions, which addresses in Title II a new regulation of specialties in health sciences, and within the model of the European Higher Education Area, arising from the Bologna Declaration, a new catalogue of specialties has been established. Its objective is to provide better health care for citizens, without which the aspirations for professional development, both for nurses/specialists and for those responsible for the provision of general care, are obvious. Law 55/2003 of 16 December 2003 on the framework status of health service staff, recognizes that each health service will establish, modify or delete categories of its statutory staff. Within the regulatory framework described and in view of the evolution of certain benefits and the emergence of new qualifications and specializations, it was necessary to adapt certain existing professional categories to the current needs of Galicia, enabling the incorporation of trained professionals to apply the features required and to improve the quality of the assistance provided. Of the already existing specialties, the one that has a longer tradition is that of nursing specialist in obstetrics and gynecology, mason/matron, which is of the year 1957. Of the most recent implementation in the field of the Galego Health Service are the categories of personal statuary nurses specialist in mental health, created by Decree 95/2007 of 3 May, and that of personal nurses specialist in the work, through Decree 111/2011, of 3 June. However, in order to maintain the necessary homogeneity in the designation and definition of qualification requirements with the rest of the nursing specialists concerned, it was considered appropriate to create and regulate a generic category of nurse or specialist staff covering the different specialities existing in the Spanish legal system, with the exception of the category of nurse/nursing specialist obstetric-xinecologic, in which, by its long and traditional consideration of differentiated profession, under European legislation, it was chosen to maintain its designation. To this end, it responds to the adoption of Decree 81/2016 of 23 June, thereby creating, within the scope of the Galego de Saúde Service, the status category of professional nursing staff; a rule that was previously negotiated in the Sectoral Bureau, with the support of all trade unions with representation in it. This new category covers specialties covered by state legislation; that is, the speciality of family and community nursing, mental health, work, pediatrics, geriatrics and the speciality of medical and surgical care. With its creation, planning and the progressive provision of specialized nursing staff squares and the incorporation of staff trained in the specialty that is required in conditions of full normative and professional recognition. The staff of this statutory category shall be responsible for performing the functions inherent in the professional competences specified in the training programme of their specialty, approved in accordance with the regulations governing health professions. Such functions shall be carried out without prejudice to the competence, responsibility and autonomy of professionals of other categories and specialities acting on the corresponding team or unit of assistance. The day-to-day and hour-to-day scheme and the remuneration scheme applicable to staff of the new category of nurse/specialist nurse will be those inherent in the work place that develops, established in accordance with the specific scope of each appointment in accordance with the provisions of the Framework Staff Regulations for Health Services, with the particularities established, in their case, in Decree 200/1993 of 29 July, of primary care management in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and in Decree 226/1996 of 25 April, so as to regulate the remuneration scheme of staff of the units and primary care services. Even so, the decree includes a transitional and exceptional regime within the implementation of the new category for access, through differentiated summons, by the competitive system, to the category and squares of nurse/specialist, open to staff graduates or university nursing graduates, with ties of fixation that they perform, or have performed, in the Galician Health Service the functions of each specialty and believe the title of the corresponding specialty of nursing. In conclusion, the decree adopted by the German Government lays the foundations for the gradual implementation of the different specialties of nursing, being one of the first in the Spanish health system. And they do so by ensuring the necessary balance of all affected groups, especially among nurses of general care and specialized nurses of all specialties, by distinguishing remunerously the specialist nurses, given the specific nature of the tasks to be performed, establishing a specific process of access that benefits those professionals of the Galego Health Service who are developing functions peculiar to the specialty and have accurate titration, promoting the progressive creation of squares and accompanying the incorporation of the EIR professionals with whom they access the qualification of nurse/specialist through the exceptional and transitional route. In fact, the Galician Association of Family and Community Nursing has in its time transferred its appreciation for this progress. And his president said that the entry of nurses/nurses specialists in the family and community will give a great boost to primary care, just as he represented the arrival of doctors specialists in family and community medicine. I am now reporting on the implementation of the category and the execution of the decree. Staffing of squares in staff paintings. The provision of squares is progressively carried out in accordance with the strategic planning of the joint human resources policy of the Public Health System in Galicia, planning the needs and determining the number of staff in the category of specialist nurse who can provide structural services. In this way, in execution of the forecasts contained in Article 6 of Decree 81/2016, since its approval, a relevant provision of nurse squares specialist in the staff table of the Galician Health Service has been carried out. In the Budget Act of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2016 — Year of Publication of Decree 81/2016—, the squares provided in the category of nurse specialist were 11, in 2017 the appropriation is 30 and in this year 2018 are 46 squares equipped in this category. Since then, since the adoption of the decree, the staffing has increased to 35 levels of specialist nursing staff. Even so, they are currently provided in the staff table of the Galego Health Service 76 squares for the formation of residents of different nursing specialties — known as the EIR. Public job offers. Similarly, despite the limitation of the restorative rates imposed by the state basic legislation of recent years, the Galician Union has allocated a large percentage of OPE squares to nursing graduates, and in particular to nursing specialists. Thus, Decree 125/2017 of 30 November, which approves the offer of public employment of various categories of staff statuarial of the Galego de Saúde Service for 2017, includes 36 places for nursing specialties, broken down as follows: 20 squares for mental health nurse staff, 2 places for nursing staff specialists in work nursing, 10 for nursing staff family and community nursing specialists and 4 for nursing staff specialists in pediatrics. From the temporary staff selection. The temporary selection of staff is also one of the frameworks for the progressive incorporation of nursing professionals. Prior to 2015, special health was a special area. After this date there is a list of specific and differentiated time selections for mental health nurses for the coverage of vacancies and other absences of nurses located in the different mental health units. Prior to this date, mental health was, as I said, a special area. In April 2018 — possibly next week — the final lists will be published for the temporary selection of nursing staff family and community nursing specialists for their inclusion in primary care services and units. The temporary selection lists of nursing specialists in pediatrics are already in the process of developing and the rest of the specialized nursing, jeriatrics and surgical medical care Iranians incorporating both the formation of residents of the EIR in our autonomous community and the completion of exceptional and transitional procedures for access to specialties competence of the State administration. The specific contest. In the development and execution of the second transitional provision of Decree 81/2016, Resolution 21, March 2018, of the Directorate General of Human Resources of the Galego Health Service, approved the bases of the procedure of specific competition for entry into the status category of professional specialist nurses. Its object is to facilitate staff nursing graduates who are already working in the Galego Health Service by performing their own functions in one of the nursing specialties and whenever they have the required specialty access to the category of nurse/student. These bases, published in the DOG on April 2nd of this year, have had the unanimous support of all the trade union organisations of the Sectoral Health Bureau. At the same time, a specific competition is established for the provision of basic personnel statutory squares in the category of nurse/nurse specialist of the Public Health System of Galicia. In this procedure, the statutory staff may participate in the degree, degree or university of nursing with a fixed bond and final destination at the corresponding centre which performs or has performed functions of the specialty to which they compete, with two years of seniority in the category of origin and which is in possession of the corresponding specialty. The procedure incorporates electronic systems for registration and accreditation of merits through Fides/expedient-e and are dealt with in a decentralised manner in the agencies, culminating in a resolution that will recognize the people selected on the basis of the accredited merits, according to the barrem and the status of staff statuari fixed in the category of nurse specialist of the convened specialty. Specialties of mental health and nursing at work. According to the basis of the specific competition, in the second quarter of 2018 the specific procedure would be convened for two specific specialties: the specialty of mental health nursing and the specialty of nursing at work. For its resolution Sergas has endowed its staff of 94 nursing squares mental health specialist and 4 nursing nurse work specialist to strengthen mental health units and work risk prevention units of the agencies, respectively. At this point, I would like to thank the Directorate-General for Human Resources and the other members of the management team, both the Sergas and the health sector agencies, as well as professionals and trade unions and scientific societies, for the work done to reach this point of development. As for the appearance of the BNG and En Marea groups' request for the Coruña EOXI concerts, I have to say that the Integrated Management Organizational Structure manages the health resources of its reference area, both for staff and hospitals and health centres. The Integrated Management Administration of the Coruña — in the next few days, the Power of the Coruña Health Area — will provide health coverage for a population of 548,283 citizens, 52% women and 48% men; 23.3% more than 65 years old and with life expectancy at the age of 82.6. This population is located in 36 municipalities in the province of Coruña and counts for its attention with 5 hospitals, with a number of beds installed of 1,409, with 33 surgeons, 3 specialty centers, 59 health centers, 12 consultants and 13 continuous points of attention. At these facilities they work around 7,500 professionals, 77% women and 23% men. The budget managed by this agency is around €662 million, which means a 9% increase over 2017. In primary care, the health system in the province of Coruña and Sergas forms a solid and well-distributed structure, a care network that allows any citizen of Galicia to have a health resource very close to their home. This is one of the strengths that has been achieved all these years in the Galician Health Service. Within primary care we are developing strengthening measures in our health centers and in their resolution capacity. We also want to move forward in the application of new technologies in the Galician Health Service, and primary care must be the one to deal with this moment of technological transformation within the Greek Health System itself. Therefore, since April 2017, we decided to move forward with Telea for primary care, which is the home care platform, integrated with corporate information systems, which facilitates patient telematic access to various care services and allows care control of patients at home. Currently, follow-up profiles are designed for diabetic, hypertensive patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, heart failure and individualized profile. In recent years, several health centers were built in this area: Culleredo, Artexo-Vilarrodis, Cambre-O Temple, Vilarmairo, Oleiros, Agualada-Coristanco and New Mesoiro. We're also working on the CHUAC Master Plan right now. Phase II of the Master Plan involved an investment of 32 million euros and included the surgical block, emergencies, sterilization and radiology. The work of reform and expansion of the Earth's emergencies began last Monday, amounting to EUR 1,400,000, and will affect an area of 1,300 square metres. And we're working on the functional plan in phase III. The surgical block. This new surgical block is located on the third floor of the Coruña hospital, with the advantage of having all the surgeons on the same floor, not as before, that were divided between the fourth, fifth and sixth floors, which will make the CHUAC already count with a total of 32 surgeons, plus one of burned out of this block. Three new emergency surgeries were also created, increasing by more than 600 square meters the surface available to date. Work investment was 7 million euros and equipment 7,800,000, including the sterilization plant and the hybrid operating unit. The new sterilization plant has an estimated cost of 2.2 million euros, included in the global, as we said earlier, of equipment, and provides service to a new surgical block through direct communication through two specific lifts. This new unit has the latest technology...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u49	Excuse me a moment, Counselor. Sorry, but I want to say goodbye... as I couldn't say hello, I want to say goodbye to the professors and students of the Toural College in Vilaboa. [[Pontevedra]] I take advantage of it to tell you to enjoy your visit to Parliament. And I also use to greet the directors of the Galician Health Service. It's a commitment we had. Sorry, Counselor, for this interruption, but we have to greet those who visit us. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the interruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u50	Welcome and thank you very much for being here sharing these discussions with us. Thank you very much. This new unit has the latest technology on the market and has an annual processing capacity of over 60,000 technical sterilization units, which therefore provides service to all centres of the Sergas Integrated Management Organization Structure in the city of Coruña. And with a hybrid surgery, which is one of the two existing in Galicia. With this provision and technology, the Coruña Sanitary Area will count as the most modern of the current technology, improving and facilitating the work skills of health personnel and increasing safety for the patient and the organization of surgical procedures in vascular surgery, neurosurgery and cardiac surgery. The Virgin Hospital of June, Cee, which in addition to being a new health district, is also about to put into operation the new haemodialysis service, multiplying its capacity and avoiding new displacements of citizens from that area to the Crown. To give you a summary of the results of the activity developed with public resources in the EOXI of the Crown, I'm going to give you some data. The average waiting time for patients with priority 1 pathology has been reduced in almost 1.5 days, from 17.2 in 2016 to 16 in 2017, well below the target established in 30 days. In priority 2 pathologies, the average waiting time was 60.1 days, with almost equal numbers of patients waiting. In the field of external consultations, the average waiting time for attention decreased significantly; in 2017 it was 43.4 days, which means a reduction of about ten days over the previous year. As for the number of people waiting to be cared for in external consultations for a first disease consultation, the number also decreased in more than 1,600 people. With regard to the quick ways, the average time to access is much below 15 days, which is the parameter set by Sergas. The lung cancer cancer is in 3.8 days and prostate cancer in 9.4 days. This whole activity has been developed with own resources, which is priorities 1, 2, rapid routes and maximum times. With regard to collaboration with the private sector: the concerts. We understand that it is important that there is a private sector complementary to the public sector, which adds value to the health system as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, consultation with private centres has been taking place for decades through the legal instruments available. In the bipartisan government, of course, there were these concerts, but also in the Law of 2008, which established the Government of the BNG and the Socialist Party, was reflected in this complementary private sector. Once the previous concert contracts have been completed, a new tender has had to be processed. The procurement dossier for specialized health assistance shall be used as a framework agreement subject to harmonised regulation for the selection of undertakings and the establishment of the conditions governing contracts arising from it, in accordance with Article 196 et seq. of the Consolidated Text of the Public Sector Contracts Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 3/2011. In particular, as regards the type-approval of the contract arising from the procurement file under consideration, we must take into account the provisions of Directive 2014/23 of the European Union, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts. After the expiry of the deadline for transposition of that directive, our order is dissolved and the legal regime of the service management contract in its mode of concession, replacing it with the public service concession contract, whenever the definitions contained therein have full legal effects when it is clear, precise and not conditioned. This is a contract which is subject to one of the activities referred to in category 25 of Annex II to the Consolidated Text of the Public Sector Contracts Act, social and health services. There is no doubt about your qualification as a service contract. The open procedure for ordinary processing will be used for its adjudication. This is how we comply with the rules and all the legal instruments. That's right, I have to tell you that the 2018 concert budget is 205.5 million euros, with a 1% increase compared to 2017, but in 2008 it was 216 million euros. I mean, budgets devoted to concerts are reduced by 11 million with respect to what the two-party government has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u51	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. You come here today in two by one; then we start with the first question. You compare your own request a little to, so say, assume that Galicia is the first community to draw out the call of nursing specialists. The truth is, without time it wasn't, was it? In the Galego Health Service, experts have been waiting for ten years to reclassify the specialist nurse squares. In 2007 the category of mental health nurse was created and in 2016 the first grade 23 was approved at the sectoral table. Of course, it's good that you come here and say that you're happy, but it's not a big thing, either, given the responsibility that comes with this specialization on the part of nurses. This agreement was signed in February 2016. Decree 81/2016 is June, and we're in April 2018, almost two years later. With which, things could go a lot faster. It's good that you come here to say "it's in it," but the truth is, rhythm and professionals expect you to be able to go much faster. And they also wonder why he doesn't take away all the specialties and why he has to go, in addition, almost two years later and leaving out specialties. We didn't just know why that had to be. Just like they haven't just understood why you have to pray to those provisions of the Ministry and you haven't just stepped on the table and demanded that, like the MIR calls, the EIRs, those referring to nursing, you can't become decentralized and that this is for the benefit of the nursing professionals. Of course, it would be the least that could be demanded. Another minimum question that could be demanded is that the deadlines set in the regulations are soon to be met, because this is not the first time that deadlines are set in the regulations which are then systematically delayed, are being breached and extended. With which, since you today, your own request, comes here, to Parliament, to assume that you are in it and that it is the first community that is on this issue, because I ask you here, at least, to meet the deadlines that are established and that, in addition, demands that the EIR tests be decentralized, that they be unveiled once and for all and that the specialties, which are unexplained, that they come out once and for all, and in time, because they have certainly been waiting for too long, and there is no explanation. You don't have any explanation that pediatrics stays out, because, in addition, we're talking about the economics being empirical, the economics being small. With which, you have no explanation; of course, for BNG has no explanation, you have absolutely no explanation. So now we want to ask you about this bid at the EOXI of the Crown, and we want to ask you, Counselor, about this framework agreement because, of course, from the BNG point of view, it is clear that you have already removed the face. When they brought to this Parliament the Law on guarantees of maximum periods of health benefits, the BNG has already clearly told them that the only objective of that law was to legalise the derivation of patients and public resources towards private health, because without injecting more resources into public health the waiting times envisaged in that law was impossible to guarantee them in public health, and, of course, time only gives us reason. And now, with this EOXI auction of the Coruña, we see that they definitely remove the face. What up until now, in those drifts, in those contracts, was pure obscurantism -- there wasn't much way to know the numbers, the data -- now they're starting to put white on black. What were earlier minor issues, now directly to the greater hunt, is already going through joint offers of specialized health care. For that they passed the Law of Assurances, for that they met Fexóo with the employer of the private and for that they passed the decree that develops that Law of Assurances which entered into force on January 10th. And since that entry into force, of course, they haven't wasted their time. Since that entry into force, the Government of the People's Party at Galician Union has not wasted time, and the EOXI of the Crown is the point of launch at that fence opening. We see it clearly. We see that they're taking out an invitation to tender for almost 100 million euros, 97,497, with a possible variation of about 25 million in which they pull out their facet, and they already make that joint bid in a catalogue-type auction. They already bid that by weight, don't they?, because the scoring criteria are: by number of beds, because if the center offers surgical session with a doctor — if the doctor puts Sergas, he has an equal score — he can be with center only or with doctor — the doctor can put Sergas —... that is, the People's Party completely cohesifies health, makes it a more subject matter to the supply circuit and buys it, in a way, from the point of view of the BNG, because really brutal. An EOXI like the Coruña has a progressive loss for years of hospital beds. We can talk about about 200, and we can talk about 42 directly in the Materno, where one day they closed to do a decentration, where they were going to install bathrooms in the area of gynaecology... they shut down 42 and never heard anything else; we don't know if they're still looking for the bathrooms or not, but never knew again. Or 25 at Abente and Lake, which disappeared. We can talk about around 200, because there's also darkness about how many are opening and closing, and we haven't just heard about it; about closing beds in summertimes, where they close in early July and then in summer they spread beyond October; about professional deficits that cause the progressive loss of care capacity in all areas and modalities; from the waiting lists, which you here have given a relationship, but there are lists of waiting for medical consultations, for surgery, for diagnostic tests and for everything. There is a lack of resources, lack of response and inability of the public system to respond to the demand, to reach these kinds of issues. I suppose then you in the reply will tell me that in EOXI's global budget this bid is lower. So, what are we going to worry about if total is smaller? The question, Counsellor, is: why rather than seeking that the answer can be given in public health, have public health without the capacity to respond and, in the meantime, make these tenders to the letter for public health, sell complete lists...? And I would like to ask you, Mr. Almuña: in the public health of the EOXI of the Coruña, in the last five years or in the last two -- as you wish -- how many cataracts have been made? or how many varicose veins, or how many minor surgeons in the last five years? Because the information that BNG has is that nothing is done anymore, because, for example, those that are forming in the MIR are no longer able to be trained in the public in specialities determined as cataracts or veins because nothing is done in the public anymore. Because you, with this fantastic catalogue, are selling everything directly to private health so you can ask these kinds of questions. So, what we'd like to ask you is that you've explained here today what is the need for you to make these framework agreements if this is going to be the tonic for the EOXI...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u54	...and why they don't seek to give this response capacity in public health. And with regard to the nursing specialty, I've already asked you the questions before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Today, in this mixed appearance, the truth is, I don't understand the accumulation of themes, or I don't fit. In any case, we're going to talk or split up the intervention so we can trust them. I haven't been able to find a lead thread on both issues, I'm sorry. About the nursing specialty, we consider the government to be late and ill. It's an idea that could be good at first, but it's late and it's bad; it's like bad defenses, when they're late, they cramp with everything and they're penalized. So there's a problem: of what could be a good possibility, what they did was turn this into a situation of uncertainty for professionals, because there are some doubts about the matter. It's not that the implementation of the specialty is a bad measure, it's not, and I think I share your analysis that you should go there, but the implementation of this measure is made with certain doubts. In addition, it can cause a problem against some of the staff, or against a large part of the staff, and we ask for a certain degree of caution to apply it properly. What will happen to the professionals, to the professionals who have been working for twenty-five years, that some of them are tutors or tutors of those who are doing the specialty and who are now, however, left out of some call because they don't have that specialty because they couldn't do, for example, the specific test? Squares will be convened for specialties from which there was no specific evidence, but instead there will not be called squares for some specialty in which there was. So that causes some dysfunctions in the system, and we think it was more appropriate to plan them with more vision in the medium and long term. In any case, we believe it might be a good possibility, but it causes uncertainty, certainly resolveable, if it had done more correctly, and gives the feeling that the counselor does, I don't say thank you, but not wanting. So sometimes things have to be done with more will than by wanting to solve them accidentally to get out of a situation. Turning to the question that you described about the EOXI of the Crown, with a lot of statistical and demographic data, we see in this situation a problem in resource management. There's a problem, from our point of view, in resource management, and the truth is, I know that you, from the Council, and you usually understand that this is a slogan position -- as you have ever said — of the Socialist Party. Therefore, trying to get out of the debate so partisan, we think who can certainly have a rational opinion on the accounts of the Council and of the Greek Government in general, and curiously find ourselves with an institution, for example, like the Board of Auditors, which says — and I will literally quote some of its reports on privatizations— : "In general, in the signed concerts, there are no specific requirements for the management of the benefit; in particular, the conditions of resources or the assistance quality are not regulated or control indicators are established." Don't guarantee assistance. The non-aid guarantee assumes that we are drawing too much attention to the issues that should be resolved in the public system, but in which we are not able to control the same aid guarantee. So not even for the patient; it's probably the same. We're drifting towards a system that we don't control their guarantee. So a lot of our system is derived from a system that we don't have as much capacity, or we don't want to have as much ability — depending on how you look — to control your quality assurance. That's a problem, because we're, then, making patients have a level of health insurance and others, another level. And, curiously, we are more expensive to those who have less care quality, which, from our point of view, is at all, less efficient. Council of Auditors — I quote again — "We are still using the system of authorisations of use for the recruitment of certain benefits, distorting the nature of this figure" — I say the Board of Auditors, we do not say, " whose use should be exceptional." Today you claim here that the public system, the concerted system, adds value to the system, which we do not share. The private system must be a resource, it is a resource, it is usable, but it must not be something that adds value to the system. The system must have value for itself, and we must have a situational, contextual element, which is the use of derivatives, but not structural, and we are converting derivatives into an absolutely structural element within the system. And he also says, "The unification of the processes of management and control of the benefit agreed with the creation of the EOXI requires a strengthening of control through the health inspection services, appreciated"—that curiosity of the Board of Auditors!— "a limited capacity in the inspection plans that have been established". There are no control mechanisms; there are no control mechanisms in a system that should be exceptional, but it is structural, and on which, besides, we have no health guarantees. The Board of Auditors says it, and we perceive inefficiencies, and it also gives the feeling that it would be a repeated inefficiencies, because it occurs systematically every year. And it takes place, besides, not only on this issue, as the one that was pointed at the Coruña, about which, in truth, it is sadly expected; something rare happens at the EOXI of the Coruña. Mr. Aurelio Núñez the other day told me that there was no time when he wasn't talking about cartels. Let us remember that more than 400,000 euros were spent on cartels in the EOXI of the Coruña, 400,000 euros on cartels!, which are certainly a good number of professionals. In posters!, only to change that poster, instead of putting "hospital center of the Crown," he'd put "public". We defend more that the system is public to say. Say it's okay, but doing it's much better. Something strange happens at the EOXI of the Coruña. [[Applause]] We need to have a little more perception about what's going on there. But we say that this is what the Board of Auditors says is not all about this case. There's certainly a curiosity. If you look at some of the Business Council resolutions, you can check out something about Sergas management. By taking some, not all — some —: negative transfer, 15.9 million euros — you've been talking about last quarter of last year—; 23.6 million euros for the Galician Health Service; 64.6 million euros, negative transfer taken from the gaga de Sangue Agency, Organs and Fabrics; 57.6 million euros coming for pharmaceuticals and sanitary materials. All of this is budget changes. By the way, this is very curious: 57.6 million euros do you know where they get them from? Greater obeisance, starting from the 0.5th count of the expenditure ceiling, the one who said that — the Fairy Council said — was an occurrence of the socialists. Then they take out some games like this. This is very interesting, 41.6 -- 200 million in the quarter -- you know that they're pulling 41.6 million out of that management that the Health Council couldn't do? Well, if you go to the games, you see, for example, that they throw out public universities. What about the public university? What's the matter with the public university? Really, don't do any more... than the ones who feel we owe to the public university are very concerned about the damage they're doing to them. [[Murmurs.]] Public universities. They're taking part in the public university, taking part in environmental action, the Galician Waters, the Natura aid. They remove parts of commercial space, take parts of cultural broadcasts, school lunches, take parts of education management and innovation programmes, foreign languages; remove parts of equipment for the promotion of personal autonomy—depends, remove parts!—; grants and investments in fire prevention, the creation and improvement of forest masses, agricultural structures; leave parts here for the inefficiency of the Council. They're taking part — on the other hand — in public universities — in fact they must have a little obsession — and actually they're taking more than 8 million away from the Council of the Sea. More than 5% of the 2017 Sea Council budget had to be redirected to cover holes that the Health Council could not manage. There's a problem with the management of the Health Council, and I'm just talking about one of the alterations. There are a number of constant inefficiencies that are worrying, but it's just that, look, this one, this one, I just read, goes to implants, another medical material, laboratory material... for a follow-up of that part. In 2015 — I say that you always brag about what you do in budgets and we always defend that budgets are liars — 201 million euros have been budgeted, and they've spent 312 years. This data must not have been very useful to him because in 2016 they budgeted 220, and ended the year with 315. In 2017 -- he mustn't be worth it -- they budgeted 219, and he ends the year in more than 360. This year, they budget 262; I bet a coffee they'll finish over 300 again, and it's likely above 350. They're four years in a row spending more than 35% on budgeting a single game, and yet they haven't realized that it's necessary to budget more on that, so they don't have to steal them later from other councils and things like school dining. But what's the problem? The problem is that later they get here and they can say things like they're just spent... No, it's not a lie. Then they change a third of the game! Then change with transfers from here to there. And that's why the Board of Auditors says — and the fact is that the Board of Auditors can say one thing, not copy the Socialist Party's arguments—, an autonomous body—referring to Sergas—: "It continues without implementing an integrated accounting system, as required by the General Public Accounting Plan, limiting itself to administratively-budgeted information without approaching the balance sheet of the situation or the economic-patrimonial outcome." In simple terms, you are voluntarily opaque to the management of the Council, and I'm sleepy because you call the budgets, because you call the way you do the accounts. And, in the end, we have an budget and we have an economic management in the absolutely inefficient Council that is giving a lot of money to those who are not owed, that is not putting into effect the public system and that comes, in the end, to realize in this story that the private system adds value to the public system, when we defend that the value of health is in the public system itself and that the private system is a resource that must be used in the way it is necessary, but it must not be a structural system. Therefore, we must not accept — as you seem to accept — that the Board of Auditors should draw the colours out of the Council, and therefore we believe that this inefficiencies must be better explained than it has so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u57	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u58	Thank you, President. The nursing, Mr. Almuña, obviously fought for many years to be considered an independent health profession — we discussed it on another occasion — and then we fought for our studies to be university students, improving this academic training that was being received; later, in the defence of professional skills, we fought for our power to make our own diagnoses, our independent work, even though inserted into a framework for the work of multidisciplinary teams; and, of course, we also fought for our specialization, with this important importance in the quality of care provided. This is what we have defended since the beginning — and, of course, from our group we also criticise the slow application of this nursing decree, and the need to accompany gradual changes throughout the national health system, and in particular here in Galicia, where professional specialists were taking over the various services. We have discussed this circumstance on other occasions. Specialization offers, of course, quality of care and promotes the best care of the people who use — who we are all — the health system, which is why these specialties have been implemented. However, far from being buying the number that you offer in this public job offer -- it's true that the opening of the recruitment lists was a demand, especially in some specialties that took longer without calling or had never been summoned, that they were quite old and that you didn't meet until now -- the reality is that even the recruitment depends only on the opening of the lists. You have to see how these contracts are made for the replacements of professionals, you have to see how many of the squares — because you haven't talked about it here today — will be transformed from the existing ones, as is accompanied by the progressive replacement of professionals who retire by new professional specialists. But in the case of the public job offer to us, it doesn't seem like a buying situation. Of course, you have, of course, reached a union agreement. We'd like them to have done it in other ways as well, as it can be for justice, which unfortunately has been fighting for two months for them to recognize their rights. But, Mr. Almuña, numbers are scarce, and the implementation of nursing specialties is not simply limited to the public offer of employment. And then I'll explain. With regard to obstetricians, specialist nurses, matrons and masons, the World Health Organization indicates that there should be at least one professional for every 500 births. In addition to this circumstance related to births, within the National Health System and within the Galego Health Service, there are other competences that have been conferred on these professionals in recent years without increasing the number of professionals. And it also recommends the World Health Organization that we have at least 1.5 maters per gynecologist or gynecologist. This doesn't work out, ratios don't work out. And, of course, with this lack of public offer of squares — because the last one was only six professionals — we have an obvious problem in our public system. In all health areas there are difficulties related to the absence of sufficient professionals. In Santiago, for example, there are 2,500 births per year, and there are only three midwives. The Coruña is the same data. But we have a problem especially in Ourense province, Mr. Almuña: eight midwives for the whole province. Clearly, this is not a normal number in direct care, in primary care. And this is incompatible with the application of the Women's Health Plan. I don't know what you have to tell the women in Ourense province, because we have a real problem, a very serious problem, which is denouncing professionals and professionals. And you today, unfortunately, in attendance -- I don't know if you're going to do it -- you haven't given any measure of how it's going to be done to meet the ratios, the protocols of the World Health Organization and, of course, that we have a quality care for women throughout our country. I don't stretch out, because I wouldn't give myself time, both sides of the show. In work nursing we have an obvious problem of parasitation of the system with the mutuals, we have a relevant problem. And the sample is that you only take two squares on the public job offer. It's totally ridiculous this amount. I'd like to know where these squares are, because if I'm really curious. Our group has defended the reality of an budget that is frankly scarce for the prevention and promotion of health at work, for the elimination of occupational risks. We have called for a risk map, we have claimed an increase in funds for Issga, and we have a situation in which private companies are responsible for something as elementary as the health of the working class at their job. And that's not reflected in this public job offer. In pediatrics, it's a four-place joke. We know it's a deal they've reached. But really, when we have such a obvious problem of professional need, I would like to know what centres they're going to be in, how many pediatric nursing professionals are needed — not in the primary, but at least in the specialized — and how these squares will be replaced. In mental-health nursing the 20 squares, of course, are many more than in other categories. But we seem scarce, among other things, because we have moved here the need to increase professionals in basic mental health units, as well as specialists, in hospitalization, that necessary reinforcement in the infant-juvenile unit of CHUS, that new unit that we have requested in the south of our community, and of course also that lack of sufficient personnel of the whole and overallity of hospital centers, which makes it, for example, in the CHUS — in the Santiago Hospital Complex of Compostela — are denouncing professionals who often move nurses and nurses from mental health units to cover the absences of other units that have nothing to do with. This is incompatible with the specialization, Mr. Almouniña, and you have to give here some answer beyond the public offer of squares. We have a problem, we can't be moving. That's incompatible with specialization, because you know as well as I do that they won't move — I hope — a professional specialist to meet anything else that has to do with anything else, just like they wouldn't do with medicine. In the case of community nursing, the reality is that 10 squares is quite poor for reality. Last year an initiative was adopted in this Parliament by Mr En Marea unanimously calling for these squares to be convened, and that once and for all, after the struggle that the professionals of the specialty of family and community nursing had carried out, there was not only a situation in which the training programme was approved. And yet years passed, seven years passed, and they didn't call. The reality is that 10 squares seem very scarce for how primary care is. And you should give here some explanation why the squares will no longer be replaced and going to increase the markets of fellows and fellows specialists in that primary care about which we have just discussed that is frankly wrong in our country. And one last element of this part -- because it won't give me time to another -- the hieriac nursing. We have a problem: I would like to know what is the position of this Health Council with regard to the Ministry. They only take an EIR for 2018 from 21 squares. And we have a problem, because we're talking about the demographic problem, the aging of the population, the chronicling of the diseases, and it turns out there's not even a word for the geriatric nursing. I know fellows who are studying this specialty. And actually, professionally, it's a mess. But what are you going to do about this? They're not gonna implant it, okay! But what is the attitude toward the Ministry? Because really Galicia should be from the autonomous communities that needed more professionals and nurses who specialize in geriatrics, at least as far as we have the demographic picture, unfortunately, in our country. With reference to the second part of the appearance — and we have requested, and of course I will also speak on the second turn, an interpellation because we were not sure that you would accept this, because it is customary for you to refuse them, even though you consider them not to, but this is so, Mr. Almuño, neither administratively nor politically are the same services contracts and service concessions, and you know it perfectly well. As a matter of fact, the concerts that were held until now weren't even the same as what you guys just did right now. There is administratively the concept of risk, which differs the types of contracts that can be made. But towards the politician, towards health planning, you for the first time privatize health services directly in the Coruña, for four years, for an amount of EUR 97 million. In addition, there is one element — now I have no more time, but I would like it later to make reference — quite important and circumstantial to the rights of workers and workers, to see if there also comes to some agreement with the unions. How do you put the element of forced mobility of professionals, going over completely the Incompatibilities Act, collective bargaining and all the aspects we've seen defending professional rights? I don't have any more time, then I'll go on. And I would like you, instead of making us an extensive preface of how public health is in the Coruña, to do an intervention appropriate to the appearance that is requested. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The 5th Primary Students of the Isaac Díaz Pardo de Almeiras Center are now with us in Culleredo, Coruña. Welcome to Parliament and have a good time. You now have the turn, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u60	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, welcome. And a greeting to Culleredo's boys and girls who accompany us. This group and this spokesman will start talking about the first topic, which seems to have had an irregular incidence here. Some groups practically dedicated the full intervention and others passed a little bit above it. Of course, he accuses you of being presumptuous, Counselor. You're asking for things here. And when things are done, they come to be assumed, when they're not "campanal initiatives." And besides, now it turns out that it was late, bad, the trail and scarce, it was late, bad, the trail and scarce. But it turns out it's been the first community at the national level. I can't understand it very well. Indeed, you have come to report positively on the creation of the category, which has been demanded on numerous occasions. We had meetings even in the past with representatives of some of these groups. And I think we are all aware of the importance of specialization in medicine — specialization and MIR training. When I started working, there were still specialties of neuropsychiatry and lung and heart. If I tell a first-year-old resident now, he laughs, he thinks it's a joke. But that's why, in the same terms, we think that nursing should advance and improve its training to provide specialized care to the citizenry, specialized health care, getting better and better. And at this point, I would like to highlight the important role that primary care nursing should play in the future of chronicity care, which will require a great involvement from the present point of view, in the home of patients or in the health center, as with remote control, with Telea program, in the implementation of new technologies. You talked about the midwives, which is a category that has been completely integrated into the system for many years and should serve as a mirror to look at the new categories that have been created. We believe that it is important that planning and progressive provision of specialist nurse squares, incorporating these staff entitled to the specialty, but, as I have said at some committee meeting, respecting the rights of the workers and nursing workers who are doing so right now. I greet the turn or change of attitude of the Socialist Party, which seems to be that it now defends these professionals as well. In short, we believe that the decree meets the expectations expressed by the representatives of this collective at meetings held by them in recent years. We agree on this allocation progressively according to the needs of that staff and positively assess the increase of these 46 squares in 2018, which are also forming an important number of residents in the different categories of specialists in the Greek hospitals. In the 2017 OPE, as you said, a total of 36 for specialist nurses are registered. And we also welcome the announcement of the publication throughout this month of the final lists for the temporary selection of family and community nursing specialists, for their incorporation into various primary care services, which will be covered by staff from those specific lists to later become fixed staff through an OPE. We urge you to continue to make progress — as you have already said — in drawing up the temporary recruitment lists in the remaining categories and in doing so as quickly as possible. On the specific contest for the staff already working in Sergas developing functions in some of the categories or nursing specialties and who want access to the category of specialist nurse, we believe the situation of transitory is appropriate, which, as we said, should respect the rights of the nursing staff currently working in those positions. Well, Counsellor, in this first part, we reiterate our congratulations on the fulfilment of the People's Party's election promise at the beginning of 2016; and, once the category of nurse or nurse specialist has been created, equipping the squares in the staff, incorporating professionals into the corresponding assistance devices, with professional and remunerative recognition — which is also important — and respecting the roles of the other nursing professionals. I move on, then, to talk about the second theme of attendance, of that theme that you like the opposition, always negative, and to disengage the Greek health system. I'd like to respect public university but also the public health system. I believe that it also deserves more respect than it is given in this Parliament. And that is the publication in the CEO of the Resolution announcing the bidding for the contract subject to the harmonised regulation by this agency of specialized health care through framework agreement in the integrated management of the Crown. Look, Counselor, you give the same thing as you explain in this House the figures and data that you have brought to this audience. They're useless to the opposition. It gives the same thing as you insist that there are more staff than in 2008, about 1,500 workers and workers; it doesn't matter, it's stuck here in 1,000, 2,000 or 3,000 squares. It gives you the same thing that you bring to this Parliament the figures of surgical activity, consultations, waiting lists or budgets of anything; it is worth rejecting them without providing a single data. It is the same as you and your directors explain the progress made in health care since the implementation of EOXI and the investments made and planned in these hospitals, which will continue to say that they want to close or dismantle them. It gives the same thing as Mr Aboal appears in Commission 5th and says that the percentage of patients derived from the concert is 2.2%, that this figure does not appear in the note that makes public the BNG voicer. No, no, the total figure appears to try to destabilize the Welsh public health. I have already said on another occasion, Counselor, that if it were true 10% of what we have heard about privatization in this Chamber there would be no Greek public health. And the Welsh health, ladies and gentlemen, and people in the Chamber, is 100 percent public. Even the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, which was the icon of privatization to the left bench, turns out it's now published according to a court ruling in relation to the IBI. And in this context of denial of reality, what can we do, Counselor? I believe that we must insist on the realities, while others repeat falsehoods, so that the population has all the information and can value the excellence of the Greek Public Health Service, which of course — like all this life — is better. And we urge you to keep working on that constant improvement. This framework agreement is indeed published in the GDO. And he says that "the object of this invitation to tender is the recruitment of health services to patients who benefit from Social Security protected by the Galego Health Service of the area corresponding to the Integrated Management Structure of the Crown by means of a framework agreement, thus fixing all conditions of all kinds to be adjusted by the providers of health services to be selected, the maximum unit prices and fixing the procedure for the assessment of contracts based on this framework agreement." In another point it says: "The Galician Health Service does not undertake to contract a certain amount of procedures, because it is subordinate to the requirements of the Administration during the duration of the agreement, without the contractor being able to require the recruitment of a certain number of procedures or minimum amounts as a condition of execution." And at the end of the budget, it says: 'Proposals: EUR 72,220,219; planned amendments — according to the recast text of the Contracts Act — 25.277,000'. And it repeats and reiterates, "This amount is the estimated maximum value of the set of health services derived during its lifetime, and it is purely indicative and non-binding, without the Administration being obliged to hire a minimum amount of services." From this publication — which gives me the feeling that at that time he didn't read — En Marea's spokesman sets up a film of privatization and organizes a press conference where he says things... To see: "First broad privatization" — according to the press — "of the Galician public health system by the People's Party", "Authentic contract barbarity", "A brutal and unprecedented attack on public health", "Unlawful clauses that collect forced mobility", "The folds set the number of consultations that will be held in the private centres that participate in the competition", "The Board has just privatized the health care of A Coruña for four years". I think, after what we read about the PCAP, it's not true what was said. Mrs. Solla also says she's registered an interrogation. He actually registered an inquiry, and in the Bureau he put his group into the inquiry knowing that you were — not the Bureau itself. It gives me the feeling that there's a lot of hunger for noise and a lot of shock. And the Management answered in the press and said, "The bidding for the contract that was published in the DOG is just the step to renew the Sergas contracts with the concerted centers, in this case of the Coruña health area, keeping the same rates as in 2012. And the estimated budget, as shown in the prayers, is not 97 but 72 plus 25, recorded for possible amendments provided for in Article 88.1 of the revised text of the law". All this information, please, is available to anyone on Sergas's website, so we don't understand any catastrophic statements by En Marea's voicer, except that what you're trying to do right now is to keep the tension in public health after the adoption of the amendment of the law, following that policy on the street and not doing it in institutions. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u61	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as you are concerned about the so-called "privacation of health services in the EOXI of the Coruña", I would like to clarify once again that we are talking about health care concerts that are being provided in a complementary way to the services provided by the Galician Health Service for decades before the transfers of Health. That is to say, as I said at the outset, that in the 2008 Health Act, adopted by a Socialist Party adviser, it was mentioned that private health was complementary to public health. And in the numerous proposals they made to change the law, when it was negotiated, because this was not talked about and they didn't want to change. So let's not say what's not true. They are services that complement the offer of activity that develops from their own centres and which account for a reduced percentage of the total activity that is provided to Sergas beneficiaries in Coruña; centres, by the way, accredited. Decree 168/2010 of 7 October 2010 regulates the organizational structure of integrated management as an organizational instrument in the peripheral area of the Galician Health Service, specifically in article 5 of the Decree, regulates the functions and competences of the integrated management agencies. Among other things, it is to manage all the resources of the respective integrated management structure to ensure the provision of services defined in the service portfolio, and to propose to the Branch of the Galician Health Service the subscription and resolution of the concerts necessary to cover the care demand in its area, responsible for the management of the services, so that it adapts to the real needs of the population with the efficient use of resources. Health care is mostly carried out with own resources and resources of the Galego Health Service, and on occasion, in order to ensure the provision of health care, of optimal quality and effectiveness, assistance can be provided through private hospitals, located in the area of management of the Coruña through public service management contracts and, as I say, in centres accredited by the Medical Service Inspection. Given the need to facilitate these services with the necessary proximity, both in time and in place, to patients and their family environment, the possibilities and times of travel in public transport, as well as to minimize any inconvenience related to the displacement of patients, the health centres offered must be located within the area corresponding to the area of the tendering object. Recently, on 16 March, a special health care contract was published in the DOG. Instruments shall be laid down as a framework agreement subject to harmonised regulation for the selection of undertakings and the establishment of the conditions governing contracts arising from them, in accordance with Article 196 et seq. of the Consolidated Text of the Public Sector Contracts Act. The object of the framework agreement, the object of this invitation to tender, is the recruitment of health services to patients protected by the Galego Health Service in the area corresponding to the Coruña area, through framework agreement, and thus laying down all the conditions to be adjusted by the providers of health services to be selected, the maximum unit prices and the procedure for adjudication of contracts based on this framework agreement. The provision of health services will be carried out at the concerted centre in any of its modalities — procedures carried out by physicians in the Galician Health Service or procedures carried out by doctors in the concerted centre — always on their own schedule and when we do not have a problem at that time of surgery. The services covered by the invitation to tender shall be established taking into account the needs of the Galego de Saúde Service, the optimal use of public health resources and the budget allocations provided for these purposes. Assistance shall be provided in accordance with the applicable legislation at any time, without other limitations than those motivated by the technical and health characteristics and the level of care of the health centre. The object activity of the framework agreement will include stays, medical and surgical processes, consultations, lower outpatient surgery and other activities. And the bidding will be divided according to clinical and functional criteria of two batches: lot 1, medical processes, surgical processes and diagnostic and therapeutic tests, and lot 2, hospital haemodialysis. Execution date and time limit. The deadline for the conclusion of this framework agreement is 48 months, which is the maximum period provided for by the legislation in force for the framework agreements. The framework agreement will not be extended. The economic study of the framework agreement is based on two variables. One is the analysis of tariffs, which are — as the People's Party spokesman said — of 2012, which are actually those of 2006 with only an increase, from 2006 to 2012, of 1.4% with the inclusion of new procedures; but since 2012 there has been no change. And, on the other hand, the expenditure made in 2016 at the hospitals agreed in the said EOXI. For the purposes of determining the rates of this invitation to tender, as we said earlier, it has been worked at the 2006 concerts, which are currently being held at the EOXI of the Coruña, with the various hospitals. In view of the fact that the overall content of the framework agreement cannot be defined precisely in the time of its formalisation, because it is subject to the demand for services and the actual needs of the Galician Health Service — not of the concerted centres — as well as the duration of the framework agreement, the estimated value of the contract is EUR 97,497,296, with a breakdown of what is the budget of the tender, of EUR 72,220,000, and the planned amendments — as I say, the requirement of Sergas's needs — of EUR 25 million. The tendering budget corresponds to the provision for services to be carried out, with the following distribution per year — because they are annual, six months of 2018, and six months of 2022, so we are talking about five years. We divided, as we said before, by lot 1, medical processes, surgical procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic tests; and on the other hand, haemodialysis. In total, as we said, this is the amount of tendering budget, and the other is the planned changes. Adjudication criteria are economic supply and technical criteria — to a maximum of 50 points in each of these paragraphs —. It's less bad that the BNG spokesperson said that we started out that everything was previously hidden and that there's now transparency, and that's why he drew attention. The truth is that transparency existed before and the only thing we are talking about is a normative change. Logically, we adapt to policy changes, as appropriate. Of course, in the concerted centers we do pathology, a very small percentage of all the pathology we have in the Galician Health Service, and in addition to the less complicated pathology, less important from the point of view of severity for the patient, and therefore in concerted centers and with a criterion. Anyway, I think the opposition had bad luck this day in setting up an appearance today and tomorrow an interpellation. And it wasn't because you didn't know about one and another. He knew perfectly well and wanted to make noise. But there has just been news about a report by the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health — which is not exactly, I believe, of a governmental nature — that says: "Galice among the communities with intermediate health privatization". We're with Andalusia, for example, and we're with Valencia, in that group. We are neither with a high degree of privatization nor with a low degree of privatization. But it also points to this report that we have downloaded four posts from 2014 to the present. From the previous year, from the year 2017, to the year 2018 we came down two posts. [[Applause]] The Socialist Party here says that in Galicia we are privatizing, and in Marea — that I believe the information that has been given or is by ignorance or by bad faith. They're saying that we're privatizing health care, health care, when we're talking about a smaller percentage, and that the Public Health Federation recognizes that we're at the intermediate level, and still above we're going down in privatization according to the parameters they value. With regard to the creation of the status category of specialist nursing, we have developed a standard, Decree 81/2016 of 23 June, so it is created in the field in the Galician Health Service the status category of professional specialist nurses, which responds to a specific need, to a demand of professionals, and in what has come to a union agreement, reinforced and emphasized by the opposition, which says that there is true union agreement in all this that we are carrying out in the topics of specialist nursing. As I had already told you, the provision of squares is gradually being made, in accordance with the strategic planning of the joint human resources policy of the Public Health System in Galicia, planning the needs and determining the number of staff in the category of specialist nurses who can provide structural services. Once again, the German Government meets one of the objectives of its 2016 election program, which was that we would progressively equip ourselves with specialist nurses' personnel squares and incorporate personal titles in the specialties that call for the Galego Health Service staff. We have an election program because we know we can fulfill it, and we do. We do so because we have created the status category of nursing staff specialist in nursing in 2016, we have specialized nurse squares of staff in the 2017 and 2018 budget exercises, with a total of 76 squares, and we incorporate professionals into the different care devices according to the regulated procedures of provision, both provisionally and definitively. And in addition, we have done it with full professional and remunerative recognition, and without undermining the functions of the other professional collectives. Once again, the German Government meets one of the goals of its program, as we said earlier, and we do it because we create the category and because we have specialized nurse squares. From here I would like to express my appreciation to the General Directorate of Human Resources of the Council, to the entire management team, also to the agencies, to the trade unions, to the professional societies and, of course, to the professionals of the Health Council, for this work and effort made so that today we can recognize the implementation of the status category of specialized nurses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u63	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u64	In this "two in one" appearance, I'm going to start again by specialized nursing. And, indeed, I will stress that we are in this situation because of the ongoing struggle in the sector, especially by trade union representatives, who have not slept on the subject and are constantly fighting. Because if it were really the pace of the Council and the People's Party, we wouldn't be at this point, we wouldn't be at this point. And it's good that the push force, we're here. But you must recognize him when Caesar is Caesar's. And I, of course, Counselor, am glad that it was a promise from the People's Party and that it was fulfilled. But, as they're dismissed, the legislation is over and they're still in the middle of the promise, because they're starting to incorporate it. So put the batteries down a little bit and see if at the end of the legislation they can be in half. Because they're starting to fulfill the promise right now. I'm saying so you don't mind, because for pediatrics and family and community are left for 2019. I remember him, eh! I say it by itself, with emotion and so on, if you slip away and think you've already got your duties done. I'm telling you to stay for 2019. And, as you've been told here, in the matter of midwives, we're the autonomous community with the most important deficit. And in nursing specialist in hieria we are the community that least squares summons. I say it so you don't get excited about being the first ones and taking a few notes and taking a few homeworkes. And don't forget to go to the Ministry and say that you make that decentralization call from the EIR squares and that for the specialists in Galicia that call is done as soon as possible. I'm saying it so he won't get excited thinking he's got his homework done. And, look, it's good that in that habit that they have of advertising, propaganda and so on, they're trying to convince us that what they're doing in the EOXI of the Crown is the same thing as there was and that we've come here asking about something that doesn't make sense. It's just not the same as there was, it's not the same as there was, no! This milestone contract is not the same as it was. No, it's a more fruity step in that law of assurances that already gives you legal coverage that there wasn't before. And you insist, because it's in the literality of this frame, which is a contract for patients protected by the system, patients who, of course, you don't seem to have any intention of protecting. Because this framework contract is a derivation, a privatization, without justification. Because while we have Sergas' resources underutilized, they actually privatize without any justification, and while we have both material and human resources actually underutilized. We can talk about surgeons, which, despite the fact that there is agreement in this House of opening in the afternoon and so on, do not comply with it. And while that's the case, it turns out that you make a framework contract worth nearly 100 million euros to derive from the private sector. Derivatives to weight, to weight, because in this contract it turns out that there are 50% scores per number of beds, by surgical sessions with doctors from the center, by surgical sessions with Sergas doctors... by Sergas doctors who are going to be derived... under what conditions?, how?, what is the legal mechanism?, only medical personnel or the rest of the staff?, under what conditions will Sergas staff be going to be in respect of the rest of the staff of the center?... Of course, how do you plan to establish the mechanism in all this? No guarantees? No control? Do you ask more people who have appointments, who have more appointments, who performs more surgeries, who performs more dialysis sessions?... Where's the quality? I mean, the criteria are volume and price; i.e. price to low, volume -- of course, today it doesn't take time to enter these issues, but, of course, it puts your hair at the top. Staff mobility, only optional... of course, BNG is very concerned. I asked you a number of questions that you didn't answer, or about the subject of nursing -- if you commit yourself here to the questions I asked you, you didn't say anything -- or whether this is going to be the model for the rest of the EOXI. Because, of course, this is the opening of the biggest hunt with respect to the model of privatization contracts, with the Crown as the point of launch. Of course, I tell you here, without any shame, that the Greek public health system is governed by the system's own predators, by you, Counselor, and by the People's Party, to destroy from within the public system itself. These types of contracts and framework agreements are the proof of the nine that you make these legislative changes: from inside parasitic, to allow the parasiticization of the system by private health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u66	They have a theoretical public system defense speech, but the real roadmap is to put it in a private health tray, little by little, at first drop the drop and then, now, with these framework contracts that begin with the Crown. So the importance of your coming here to explain if this is going to be the model and now, instead of small contracts, start with these framework contracts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u68	...and if this is really gonna be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u70	...the roadmap for our country's public health package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u72	Thank you, President. I think it is necessary to clarify some of the issues that have been raised here, especially because it is important that we be able to debate the things that each voicer says, that may have the best or the worst of opinions, may be more shared or less shared, but it is important to discuss the issues that we say and not the things that someone invents that we say. And especially because I don't think it's necessary to put words in our mouth that we haven't said. And it's also important not to miss the truth too much. I hear the P.S.D.D.'s coming to the nursing specialty now. And a year ago, the PSdeg voted in favour of this in Commission 5a. A year ago, yes, March 23rd. In Commission 5th on 23 March, we have already voted in favour of this. A year ago we voted in favour of the nursing specialty. It's in the minutes, there's no problem, you can play another coffee. On 23 March, Commission 5a. We're not here now, we're asking for it before. What we're saying is that the government is coming now, a year later. And we thought it was a good idea before, and so we think it's still a good idea. What we're saying is it's late. And so when we're late and we're quick to get things, we don't think it's a bad idea. What we think is that it's being applied run-down, and that's what we're saying. And we have some doubts that professionals have. Even when we give him the reason he sometimes thinks we're discussing things with him. If the idea is good! We were in favor, you had some doubts and now you're in agreement. Perfect, good measure! We think it's best to apply it more carefully, but it's a good measure. Otherwise, we don't say anything. In fact, sometimes it gives the feeling that we're discussing things like we're coming here, which is not the case. Making politics in the streets or institutions... is curious to call politics in institutions and set the example of the Health Act. Because, when we proposed that the councillor come here about the Health Act, the one who said right now here, ten minutes ago, that we wanted to do politics in the street and not in the institutions, when he had the opportunity to vote on the counsellor's appearance, he voted against. Of course, calling to do politics in institutions and then vetoing appearances is very easy. On consultation with the private system we believe it's a resource, and it's a timely necessity. And of course it's a complement. What is not a value added, and in that we disagree. You can differ naturally. I recognize your position, which you consider to be a structural element of the system. And we don't, we think it's an element that needs to be used while you don't have the possibility to do it from the public system. But it cannot give added value, we cannot defend that the private system gives added value. Because the private system ends up becoming structural and not exceptional, as the Board of Auditors says, and so do we. And it ends up becoming a privilege and not a public service. It is because we — if we are bold — argue that the health system must be a public service. A public service is equal and cohesion, and the private system is not, even though it is used from the public system. For example, among other things, because it does not guarantee the same quality of care — as the Board of Auditors has already told them — we do not even say that, too. It does not guarantee the same quality of care because it is not subject to the same control mechanisms. So from a need for assistance, we're generating two different treatments. That must be exceptional but not structural. And that's what we stand for. And what we think is that the evidence of constant changes in budgets makes it manifest that it does not. We do not say, we do not say today, that this is a system to demonize health — or I do not know what word they used —. What we say is precisely that, that there are constant changes in budgets, and that is therefore more difficult to control. And that makes budgets totally inefficient, and they're also lies. But the Board of Auditors says: "The budget document has limited capacity as a forecasting and expenditure control instrument" — now the Board of Auditors has become Maoist. "Not only is there a permanent structural insufficiency of the initial appropriations to cover the obligations of each exercise, but it is resorted periodically to generating expenditure that exceeds budgetary appropriations." Basically, that they change too easily and too systematically the budgets to include games that were not, to cover needs that, knowing that will happen — because they happen every year in the same games — are improperly budgeted on purpose to be able to play with the trick of saying that you pay little in a game, although then we increase them practically in a third of them again in percentage terms. And this is what happens with the budgets, which are increasing in the games where you want to assume that you spend little — because you spend a lot more. And then it happens that we have some budgets that are systematically increased, having to withdraw money from other councils. That's inefficient. Because, although they know it from the beginning, it's inefficient to control the government. I know you think the art of hiding is a political art. But no, transparency is a political art; concealment, no. I know you think that's wonderful, but it's not. And besides, what it does is it makes the system inefficient, because it has to be drawn from resources, from rather diffuse budgetary techniques -- or that they are not the best budgetary technique, as it has ever been said here on another issue -- to use the system in a somewhat twisted way and that it is not possible to control it. And that's what we demand. We think we need to be more transparent. And besides, all these transfers always end up leaving public services to end up in consultation with private services. Once it can be random, two might be that, too. But with some title in statistics you can say that such a clear trend is not chance, it's intent. And you withdraw from public services to end up paying private concerts, and that's what we don't defend. Educational innovation, fire prevention, school dining, nearly 5% of the public service budget. And they end up paying private talks. And they can't say here that they're just spending what the initial budgets say, because it tells them the Board of Auditors that what they put in the initial budgets is a lie, which is always a lot more. And that's what we stand for, and besides, that's what they say about the data they get from the Business Council, except that the Health Council and the Business Council have such a bad relationship that they're cheating on and issuing false data to each other, that we hope that they won't get to that point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u73	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u74	Thank you, President. Well, politics for dummies, a brief explanation: in the audience, you come in, you talk. We listen and then we ask and you answer. It's not that you look, let's listen and you don't answer. Because if not, it's no good for you to come here. That's what we're going to be limited to the press releases, reading the Council's press notes. I'm saying it because you haven't answered anything. I'm interested in the subject of nursing specialty, and we have a problem because, of course, I've already said: welcome are the squares that call, but they're totally scarce. And I'd like you to give an answer about what we're doing with the absence of midwives in the province of Ourense and the rest of the Galician Health Service, Mr. Almuína. We have a problem, because it's true that there's a historical record in the National Health System and also in the Galician Health Service, which was done well, which was the reduction in cesarean areas, for example. It was a problem we had. They're still above the one indicated by the World Health Organization. But, in return, what happened? An instrumentalization of births, induction of childbirth, not only instrumentalization, but also induction. In Vigo it's at 40%, and it's a barbarity. WHO recommends a maximum of 15%. There's no bosses left, tell us what they're going to do, because there's 84 vacant squares. You didn't make any reference. In work nursing, he didn't respond to anything, and in pediatrics. I'd like to know what role it has to play — and in which centers these two squares are going to be — the nursing of work in a situation where work accidents with death have increased and in which, in addition, we have a problem with the absence of a classification of risks at work. We've moved it on other occasions. In mental health, what about that absence of sufficient professionals and that mobility, within the units themselves, to other units that are not mental health? And I'm interested in -- and I'm very, really -- his position on hieriac nursing. We have no application, the Ministry only takes 21 steps for the EIR and we have a situation of population aging that we have discussed here on many occasions, with reference to demographics. Do you have no opinion? I hope so, honestly, and could transfer it to the Minister of Health and, in passing, also tell him not to hire, please, or not to take to his office persons charged with alleged reckless murder. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Morning, we're obviously going to have an interpellation tomorrow, but I think you don't fool anyone anymore. I repeat that administratively there are differences between the different contractual modalities, and what they are doing is privatization. You're making a contract with private companies to provide health care. And by the way, it's four years because they couldn't anymore, because it's the maximum that allows them the Public Sector Contracts Act. If not, of course, it would be worse. And, man, it's very good that you like the reports of the Galician Public Health Association, and the Federation of Associations, in this case. I invite you to read it all, and also, of course... yes, yes, yes, but the Galaga Association belongs to the Federation, which is the one that provides the data, as you suppose you will know, because obviously it's not an ignorant one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I recommend that you read the rest of the reports, notes and complaints, including the one that denounces this privatization of which we came to talk about today at the audience, in which you didn't answer the questions we asked you about. I would like to make it clear to you, because we're going to talk about it tomorrow too in the demand for technical prescriptions for recruitment, which actually talks about surgical processes with the optionals of the Galician Health Service. Is that what it is? I mean, they're continually telling us that there aren't enough professionals, that we have a problem, that they can't hire because there isn't. And now it turns out we're going to send them to the private to do the work they should do in the public. And where is the Incompatibilities Act? Where do you pass the Incompatibilities Act? What are the conditions under which professionals are derived? Is it or is it not forced mobility, Mr. Almuña? All you have to do is read the nails, really, and then the report of evidence, consultation, surgery, is endless. This is privatization. Of course there are nails and they can be read, of course. And that's why we bring him here, and it seems like a scandal, really. You were talking about always going to do it on your schedule. What are you telling me? Tell me they're gonna pull them off on their public work schedule to take them to private? Or are you telling me you're going to do overtime? He's clear, because he's not here and I think the unions are quite interested in him. I think so, because what they're doing, of course, is not just privatization but stepping on collective bargaining and bargaining tables. I don't know, it's a service contract and obviously a contract with private companies. It is quite clear in terms of administrative clauses, too, Mr Almuña. And as much as you insist, this is neither normal nor appropriate. It was also indicated by the PSdEG spokesman. It's an element that we always bring circumstantially and always structurally here, because it's very important. You don't comply with the Board of Auditors, there isn't even an EOXI monitoring report on the Crown. How do you make these types of contracts if you don't even have control reports! What is this? Really, honestly... I don't have any more time and I'll be done. Obviously, we'll listen to if something answers. We have this interrogation tomorrow, and I — I insist — would like to know what planning you have for general nursing, midwives and the rest of the nursing in our country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Counselor, math doesn't fool. If you divide 72 by four, it's 18. And 18 million 662 of the planned budget is 2.7% of the total -- not what you say, I say -- which is financed by this supposed unprecedented brutal attack on public health, which Mrs Solla reported in front of the media in her press round. Of course, if with these amounts, Counselor, you are able to do everything you said here to Mrs. Prado that was done in private, I only congratulate them, because of course, the degree of efficiency we have no doubt. [[Applause]] Even with the total amount of the contract and the amendments, we would be talking about 3.5 % of the budget of the Coruña health area. Your Honor, I think it's a lot of noise for a few walnuts. I think they make too much noise. You have just mentioned, Counsellor, the situation as to infrastructure, personnel, budget, population served by the Crown Area Administration. You have described the improvements in primary care, including the new health centres built, the master plan of the CHUAC — EUR 32 million —. He made public activity data developed with public media and waiting times. I've told you before, Counselor, that the figures and the data here are of no importance to the opposition groups, they're useless. Don't waste your time insisting that with the Bipartite, with the Bipartisan Government, if you spent 11 million euros more in concert than now, because, in total, you don't want to hear it, you won't hear it. Even the new progressive Valencian health law, approved these days — by the way, with a much smaller procedure than the Greek law, much smaller than the Greek law — contemplates the collaboration of private health as a complement to public assistance. Listening to some intervention in this House, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it would seem that they should forbid it in that law. And why won't a left-wing progressive, socialist government do it? Surely because they are aware, as at the time of the two-party government, of the need for this collaborative activity of the private in healthcare to their citizenship. But we still have more surprising examples, ladies and gentlemen. From an ultra-progressive government, with socialist advisers and from United Podemos, the Government of Castile-A Mancha, we have this news — Medical Drafting —: "Health bids the detection of breast cancer for 14 million euros". News from the Board—of the Castilla-La Mancha Board, of course—: "The Governing Council approves an investment of more than 14 million euros for the early detection programme of breast cancer." News — not from the PP — of Digital CLM: "Castilla-La Mancha approves 14 million for the early detection program of breast cancer." Do you imagine what some of these would say in Galicia? Can you imagine? I don't think they'd say that. They bid this contract from the early detection program... by the way, I suppose it will not be an initiative by Don Immaculate Herranz, Councillor of Podemos in the Government of Castela-A Mancha, who is the coordinator of the Citizens' Guarantee Plan. I think having a counselor with that name and approving this privatization is strong. And privatize yourself for the provinces of Albacete, Ciudad Real, Cuenca, Guadalajara and the health area of Talavera de la Reina, because in this same confidentiality they say that Toledo has "the internalized service in the hospital". [[Applause]] So internalize, outsource, privatize. In other words, where socialist parties rule and In Marea they privatize programs for cancer screening. Well, I have to apologize to the left side because I was wrong. They don't privatize, I repeat that they outsource. It's just that I'm always wrong, it makes me feel like I'm... I'm always wrong, I'm really sorry... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Of course, I haven't been able to find this new one in any of these newspapers that are always working on the privatization of the People's Party. I haven't been able, and I've been able to look at them, and I've checked some of them that have talked a lot, for example, about the Coruña theme. I would also like to know how it is possible for the Government of Greece to be the complement of privatization and just issued a report saying that Euskadi and Galicia are the only two autonomous communities that have reduced the number of workers in private health. Between 2015 and 2016 they are the only two of them. For example, Catalonia increased them in 2,297; Madrid increased them in 2,291; and Andalusia, in 1,205, has 1,205 more private workers between 2015 and 2016 and Galicia turns out to have 180 less; it's a curious thing about privatization. Of course, it doesn't seem to fit much of any of these figures with the constant reference to the privatization they're doing. Look, Counsellor, this of the Crown Administration is more than just a fallacy of the opposition groups, it's a framework agreement to establish barriers to consultation, testing, surgery and haemodialysis in concerted centers, as a complement to public health. It is based on a 2006 tariff study, revised in 2012; I think they went up one and a peak percent, and of the total expenditure made in 2016 in the center of Coruña, and we will beat them similar to the year 2012. The amount, as I've already said, is estimative, and does not force the Power to hire or steal any particular amount of money or services. And in the end, what we said before, Counselor: they're fireworks, because the amendment of the law has already been approved and something has to be taken away from so that people think things are as some people believe. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u77	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close this show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, there aren't many arguments. At either of the two appearances I saw there were arguments on the part of the opposition in order to be able to attack the Government of the Union. Tell the BNG spokesman that he can't. The truth is that it's true: what you present here is "no smell at all," without any data, absolutely nothing. In the appearance that we talked about specialist nursing, the problem was that we were going very slow, we prayed to the Ministry and came here bragging. No, no, no, no. We've come to inform the population of what we're doing, because we've been working on this for a long time, and now it's materialized, and we have a lot of data and we have a lot of data here, Mrs. Solla, a lot of data, all the square data we're presenting. And we don't talk about talking, but we introduce it and publish it in the DOG, and logically we're going to keep publishing, presenting squares, because I think that's what we have to do. And the spokesman for the Socialist Party said a year ago they voted in favour; we both approved the decree, which logically took a long time to work. We've got something different. By the way, I dedicated him, between the two shifts, two minutes talking about specialist nursing. That indicates that we either do it very well or there's not a lot of proposals to comment on here today. I sincerely believe that we are moving forward, we are moving forward in a serious way, and the idea that we could go faster, surely yes, but, if we go ahead of all Spanish health systems, I think it's also important. And we can do it too, because apart from that, we have the staff, the professionals. We also have technology projects: the electronic file, the Fides project, which allows accurate assessments of all the files quickly and agilely and that we can have not only records of all the squares, but also the merits of the professionals we have there, to be able to do the open and permanent competitions. And many other systems. Besides, we in the OPs, the difference between other autonomous communities, are OPEs that appear every year, while in other years they haven't presented OPs. And, of course, I think that in pediatrics, we logically bet, because we understand, as I said at the beginning, that nursing is fundamental as falling off many specialties, especially in pediatrics, and from the start of chronicity. And chronicity is not only that of hieria, which also, but also primary care, because we want, of course, that the primary care area is what most importantly brings attention to these patients. On the alleged privatization, look, there is a clear fact — and it has not given time to study it — but what is a change in the European Union's transposed legislation. It used to be called a public service management contract and it's now called a public service concession contract, and a transparent framework agreement is established, as all spokespersons recognize it. The spokesperson for the BNG said that there used to be scurantism and now, as it is transparent, because now you can see it. Well, I think it was transparent before, and it's transparent now, but of course it's for that. And they also said that this, as they said, on the matter of guaranteeing maximum times—including the communities that we have a guarantee of maximum times and that we have fulfilled it— was to increase privateness, and here it is already being seen. No, it's just the opposite. There is a guarantee of maximum times we have fulfilled, that we comply with our own resources, because to the concerted, of course, we take some of the cataracts and pathology — let us say — of lesser gravity. But the most complex pathology we've always done with our methods, with our system, with our professionals. We'll have time tomorrow to keep talking. As it is obviously a subject of having more arguments, of making an appearance and an interpellation in twenty-four hours, because there's no problem. We'll keep talking about it, because what we're doing is of course an exercise of transparency and from then on making an effective resource management. As the spokesperson for the People's Party said, we're talking about 2.7% of the total EOXI budget of the Coruña dedicated to this. As we said earlier, at the time of the Bipartite, there were more money devoted to concerts and still above the global budget was not superior. We are going to continue to work — as I say — to improve the quality of health care, I think we have a field to do, and from then on we have not come to assume, we have simply come to present and provide information and — as I say — with complete transparency. One aspect of what if I didn't want to stop talking is that I also go with a feeling I think positive: this is the first time opposition parties say that in health there are no cuts, that we spend more than we planned. It's true, it's true. In health care it is, and I certainly believe that the sensitivity of the People's Party, the Government of Galician Union, with health makes this so. I think it should not be used as something negative, but as positive. [[Applause]] Of course, the sensitivity of the Government of the Union is especially with social policies and hence with health care. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u79	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m., 6 p.m. We could come first, but we'll leave it there now. We'll be there at 4:00 and that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u80	We resume the session, with the third item on the agenda: motions. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and 13 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made to the Central Government on equality, conciliation and co-responsibility, as well as on the attention of dependents
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u81	This motion has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u82	Thank you, President. We were now discussing precisely a question that also comes up in this motion, which has to do with the schedules and the afternoon that we often finish the full and the global need to reform the way in which we live at the time level and the level of co-responsibility in the household tasks. And that's what this motion is about: it's about life. We have presented a number of measures that have to do with conciliation — as I said — and with co-responsibility, because there will not end up with equality without real co-responsibility. And without conciliation—or what we call socialization of care, putting life in the center and center of life—because we cannot have a healthy society. Conciliating today, as you know, is an inconjugable verb for many families, especially for women. There is a recent USC study of families with primary-schooled minors indicating that almost 6 out of every 10 Greek families claim to have difficulty in reconciling. Problems that have to do with both the type of schedule, as we said, and the lack of public services. And, by the way, it's curious that in this study 80% of respondents to the survey are mothers or guardians, it's women who are most concerned also with responding to a survey about their children; this is also significant. But, in addition, this and other studies confirm the negative impact the economic crisis has had on reconciliation possibilities. It is also known here that time deregulation and labour insecurity have increased, and therefore also the lack of reconciliation possibilities. We know that in this initiative we will agree with all groups on the theoretical objectives, we will agree, and this is reflected in the proposed conciliation plan. On the paper we agree. We agree that a corresponding distribution of care tasks is essential to ensure equal employment and to eliminate the penalty imposed by maternity on the labour market. It seems that we have reached consensus on this point, but, of course, shaping on paper is one thing and reality is another. Because, although we agree that in order to ensure the reconciliation of working and family life, it is necessary to address all these problems, it is also, of course, necessary for the full development of public social services. And in this last one, I think we don't agree anymore. But, while agreeing not only on elements of what is the description of what is happening and also on the underlying causes and diagnosis of this situation, this persistent inequality of distribution of times of care between men and women — we can read even textual phrases of that plan of conciliation — we are even in agreement with the need for cultural change and we agree that the traditional sex division of work, which hinders women's access to permanentity and advancement in the workplace — which is the source and cause of the so-called double-day — we also agree on this and we are in favour of it. As I said, those phrases are nothing, because they also respond to complex structural causes, which I think not all of us are with the same objective of addressing. Because the problem is also a capitalist system that feeds on inequality in all orders, also in what we continually explained here, in that sexual division of work, both in the reproductive sphere and in the productive sphere. Well, as I said, having agreed in part on the diagnosis and on the theoretical objectives, in practice that is where we find the divergence. Of course, not only are budgetary commitments needed — real and complete execution of them — but they also eliminate situations of discrimination unacceptable by maternity in companies, but also in entities that have to do with public administration itself. We have proposed this in many initiatives and amendments, but, specifically, in the field of their competences, because they could, for example, avoid delays in assessing the risk of pregnancy of Sergas workers, or legislate to avoid the maternity penalty of researchers, which is something that In Marea has put on the table in this Parliament, as regards the case of Maria de la Fuente, an investigator in which in the case of the evaluations of a scholarship of research she was made up of maternity and childhood as an effective time of production, which left her in inequality with regard to those who did not accept that right which is the permit for maternity. So you have in your hand also to incorporate non-discrimination clauses for the exercise of the recognized labour rights that we have by maternity, as is done in Europe. Well, it's also necessary to move from wish to deed in the issues of equality plans. We have talked about it on numerous occasions: the equality law is not actually complied with; it is a GNP that we will also have an opportunity to debate during this plenary session. One of our proposed measures is to integrate civil society, feminist collectives and independent experts into the design and development of this Co-responsibility and Reconciliation Plan that they have submitted. Our request is still in force, and it is still in force — as I shall explain later — because a amendment that transfers us from the People's Party indicates that this plan has gone out without dialogue. And, therefore, that need to incorporate society into the drafting and impulse of conciliation measures remains in force. Moreover, because the document itself speaks of it as an open document. Another of the measures we propose — these are two measures that are going in the same direction: in the need for statistical preparation and dissemination of this information — is to account for the social and economic value of reproductive work in our country and also to study the distribution of time in household tasks in Galicia. And we're talking about a horizon, we're putting a horizon before the end of 2018; we think it's best to put a time horizon rather than to leave it in a formatum, as remains in the Conciliation Plan. It is essential to account for the work of care. As we have already said in the interpellation, the most frightening studies speak of the fact that it may be squeezing 50% of each country's GDP. It's obvious the economic value of care, but it's just that value isn't counted in monetary terms, and even if we did, even if we applied that methodology, value has to do with the importance of reproducing life; it's a fundamental element. So, another issue that we propose in budgetary matters, since, as we say, all these measures must be accompanied by a monetary translation, is to increase funds in conciliation and co-responsibility programmes as well as in women's employment programmes and to raise investment in family and child roles to the average of the eurozone. Why do we always mean this? Because it's chronic budget poverty in the Spanish state in terms of social services, also in Galicia. This function that we refer to, family and childhood, is especially challenging. We can compare the public spending for this function, which is around 1.1% of GDP in Galicia, and which revolves around... I'm sorry, I'm bound — it must be time for this dessert moment. He said that the European States have a greater investment in family and children, and by calculating this plan of reconciliation and co-responsibility, calculating on the basis of GDP for 2018, we are still at 0.35%, when the average of the Nordic states, which often we place as our horizon, is around 3%. We still have a lot to improve. This is also added to the scarce funds for local conciliation and equality programmes, which is an issue where equality policies in contact with society can be applied essentially. Or let's also put the budget execution data on the table in 2017. From the action programmes for equality, protection and promotion of women, they left behind a million euros. What are we talking about — as we always say — that schools that segregate by sex are no longer financed? We're giving a social message that it's lawful to segregate by sex, and to us it really isn't strange, seeing that rearm of Spain's range of songs to death in which even a minister of education is present, which is a scandal. We also propose to increase birth and adoption permits for public staff, not only here — we also present a bill in this regard. Because it still takes a long way to reach the average — as I said — of those European states that have much more time for maternity and paternity permits. And we present that bill on the way to guaranteeing rights on an individual basis. That, yes, these permits must also be combined with a high rate of coverage of public squares in children's schools. And here we always put the need for a public network. We are talking about the public network, something by the way — this word, "public" — which in the Co-responsibility and Reconciliation Plan seems to have escaped them. When they talk about children's education from 0 to 3 years old, if they mention that Bono Council, which encourages moving this model of concerted education into childhood education, but they do not mention the word "public" child's education network, at least to a specific extent. All of this is also related to the need to increase funds in general for social policies. Since women assume this role of care — we take care of children mostly and also care of dependent people — we must raise investment and transfer to the State the need to comply with the law and raise investment in dependency. And also recovers the contributions of dependent people around the family, who are essentially women. Withdrawing the payment of social security contributions, I suppose they were still working, in fact, but without contributing, many women, mainly, over 55 years of age. Finally, the social crisis — including the work crisis — has been particularly detrimental to women. And in this sense, we put forward a proposal that, although it is about conciliation and co-responsibility, it is also about equality, because we are the women who take on these roles most. We hope that this parliamentary process will be positive, but above all, we hope that the commitments drawn up on the role, in which we agree, on the role — this plan of co-responsibility and conciliation — will have real effect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u83	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u84	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. All the indicators and data that refer to the time devoted to home tasks — as they were said — and other people's care shows us an unequal dedication of men and women to these tasks. Most of the tasks and responsibilities of care, not only for children, but also for dependent adults, or with some disability, rest in women. In this context, two types of actions must be carried out: to value unpaid work, as a key part of people's well-being, and to redeploy tasks among all those who make up or form part of the same family nucleus, making it possible for women to have/have more time to devote to our personal and work life. The democratic use of time by women and men — because this is a matter of fundamental rights — is still pending matter. [[Applause]] I don't know if it sounds like this. It's the introduction of the I plan of co-responsibility of the Galician board and it was approved eleven years ago. And I remember this today because we've been listening since March 7, listening to the announcement of bombo and dish approval of the First Conciliation Plan, and it's a lie. It's fake. [[Applause]] It was adopted in 2007 and envisaged measures aimed at changing roles and breaking with social stereotypes towards greater sensitivity and above all towards a change in collective mentality. Among other issues, campaigns and workshops specifically directed at men were planned, because they/you are some of the people who are going to have to make the most of them. It included more squares in the network of public childhood schools, more squares in day centers, specific training directed to youth both in regulated education and through workshops, the development of community services and social support networks for care, for example through the creation of time banks or through volunteering programmes. There were 63 pages — still accessible — that are on the General Secretariat of Equality website — with concrete measures that, if the PP had not wasted in 2009, would have contributed — and much — to progress over the last decade in co-responsibility and conciliation as a key element also to achieving that social equity between women and men. But I don't know if it was political sectarianism or absolute political disillusionment in this area that you brought us to the point where we are today. And it's just that far from using that decade and those last eleven years to advance the least, as they reflect, in addition, the official data gathered in that plan approved by the Board of Trustees last week, we see that they not only pervive roles, they not only pervive gender stereotypes, but they've reproduced and reinforced behaviors, macho behaviors and a sexual division of work that repels women from taking solely reproductive and care work. Since the BNG — in addition to this clarification note, if you allow me, and to remember that we have lost a lot of time when there was a lot of work done so that we could collectively move forward as a society towards a more just, more equitable society on the basis of gender — we will support the motion that it presents and defends today in Marea, to which we come a amendment to implement two issues. First, on account of the Spanish State's indebtedness to Galicia in matters of dependence. We have spoken and denounced it since the BNG many times, 150 million euros that have not been provided so far. And remember, too, those Spanish institutions that have to assume 50% of the investment in dependency. In fact, there is a unanimous agreement in this House in a previous motion which had presented the BNG in this regard, precisely that 50% of the funding that the Spanish State must assume. And secondly, by agreeing fully with the wording of the proposal in the resolution, if we wanted to address two questions that we believe it is important to put in writing and verbalize in this regard, precisely those workers in the home, the need for recognition of the rights of the workers in the home, just like any other worker on the other hand, but we wanted — and we believe it is important — to verbalize that, essentially, such unemployment benefit and dismissal compensation must be recognised. We agree with those proposals, but we also believe that we have to go to the concrete, that we have to put specific figures and measures. And I'm done, because there's no more time left, but today, precisely, we're and we're opening this afternoon session talking about equality, about fairness, about non-discrimination, we knew today in the morning the Constitutional Court's ruling that goes towards segregation and discrimination of women and men in educational institutions. An attack, absolutely, on the principle of non-discrimination in classrooms; we believe it to be a more example of the backwardness, of the democratic involution we have suffered in recent years. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u86	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, to begin my speech, Mrs Verao, this motion that you present I think is a lost opportunity, because it is thirteen points and everyone and each one of them has a lot of content, and it is thirteen occasions when I could bring initiatives to this Parliament to speak of equality, to speak not only of equality, because as each of them has nothing to do with the other, because I think it puts me in a very complex situation in five minutes tell you a little about what our position is with regard to this subject. As you are well aware, the President of the Board announced last March in this Parliament the I Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021, and we have this plan on the table since last week with 100 concrete measures. Five strategic lines based on knowledge and awareness, co-education, the culture of the times, the push of support resources and the commitment of organizations to responsible conciliation. There are a hundred measures and these 100 measures, in addition, are within the Greek Conciliation Plan and co-responsibility eight guiding principles. These eight guiding principles are also based on the Galician Strategic Plan 2015-2020, the First Education Plan 2016 to 2020, and the VII Strategic Plan of Equal Opportunities 2017-2020, with which we have a very important basis for this plan, it does not matter. In this context, I detail the eight guiding principles: equality between men and women, social co-responsibility, equity, attention to diversity, institutional cooperation and coordination, value the role of families, collaboration with economic and social agents and, of course, efficiency and sustainability in actions. It's a plan that has well-defined targets, it also has productivity indicators and an allocated budget, a very important budget of EUR 216 million, almost EUR 217 million for this 2018 and about 850 for 2021. This plan, as it appears, and as you reported yourself, is a living document to which different actions can be incorporated based on the needs that arise, based on the evaluation of it, which will be in constant evolution and change to improve the reconciliation of working life, family life and, of course, staff, and to improve co-responsibility. Once again, I would like to thank you for presenting this motion, because we can also talk about the work that is done since the Government of Galicia; I would like to thank you here for the involvement of Social Policy, from Vice-Presidentship and also from the Employment and Industry Council. You report in your motion thirteen points, one of them, for example, talks about the Women's Employment Plan, which has to be given more budget, you have to increase it. I'll say, just to give you a clarification, that last year, the first female employment plan, with a budget of one million euros, was introduced in this House. I think that after one year the data is clear and the data is very important, we have in March, this month in March, with respect to the month of March before, 11,445 women working, 11,445 women who have found work a year later. But not only that, but the female employment data are improving forced marches, so I think the work is being done and there's an important job behind all this. We see it's not left on wet paper. We have tabled an amendment, an amendment which I believe will collect more thoroughly — and in a way a little more effective than you do — what we want to transfer to you. There are points that are very important, they're all important, but I think especially the announcement we've been seeing in the media a few days ago, which is to gradually match maternity and paternity permits in an untransferable way, increasing the paternity permit from five to seven weeks. In addition, increasing and increasing the Good Council, the Good Care, the Public Network of Child Care Centres, of course, attention to the dependency, presenting to the Galician Council of Women the Reconciliation Plan. How will it not be presented if, of course, this plan has not been drawn up back to citizenship, but it is an enriching plan, is a plan — as well as it appears in the document itself — alive? Of course, another of the measures that we present to you in our amendment is to implement an additional four weeks' leave in the case of delivery for the staff official, which can be enjoyed evenly by any of the parents. And to finish. Of course, we go to the Government of Spain to request 50% of the contribution of the dependency and to comply, as could not be otherwise, with the rights of the household workers. We hope they will have our amend ment and we can, once again, achieve the work that unites us, and more towards equality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u87	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u88	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I believe if I tell you that I would like to see that this government is finally responding to the continuing initiatives and proposals of the opposition groups; to note that several of the issues posed by this motion today by the En Marea Group will be picked up with nuances in that Greek plan of conciliation and co-responsibility, which is claimed in the motion only five days ago; and that the demands, in addition, of all the women and men who accompanied them on the streets last March 8 will be heard and with the highest speed. But I think that desire may be once again confused between the mists of the plans that take place and hide at the same time; opportunistic plans that act the micro and camera blow, but that when the lights go out they get on a stand watching the time pass as they have done disregarding the measures that were put in place for conciliation during the Bipartite and that has already told Mrs. Rodil. And in the Socialist Group we have the dilemma of deciding between two attitudes: to trust this government or not to trust. And let me reflect with you on trust, which is the firm hope that a person has in which something happens, whether it works in a certain way, or in which another person acts as he wishes. And confidence is nourished with time, like friendship, with facts and attitudes that increase our security in something or somebody, and that's what we haven't just seen very clearly in the plan they presented, and that would come to pick up, at least, some of the points that are presented in this motion and in other opposition presented in recent months. Please explain to all of us how all the new measures will be put in place with the same budgets as they have so far, those budgets that were already approved prior to their implementation. Because they announce 216 million this year, without any kind of breakdown. A plan that is supported in a previously approved budget with money that will come out of games that have already existed. What's new then? And if you have, as Mrs Vázquez has said, specifically if it seems to provide this plan with reflections and measures that we agree with, but how will these new measures be covered? This is only explained in one way. On the one hand, you had a number of programmes running in different councils such as Social Policy, the Presidency, the Economics, the Employment and Education programmes, and towards conciliation and co-responsibility. And the social reality in which we live led us to the fact that in 2017 32,700 women and 2,900 men decided to leave their jobs to take care of minors or older people, thus demonstrating these figures that, in any case, the current reconciliation policies are not enough, and much less if you are achieving co-responsibility between women and men. With this plan, therefore, the Government only did it is to group all the measures that already existed and drag them to the same document. They analyzed them in the context using that half of the document, about 50 pages, and then they picked up the targets and the measurements, which came to be the ones that already existed, stressing that they will continue on the marked path. That's right, with very nice literature. [[Applause]] Not long ago in this House I spoke to you about the point of inflexion that the Socialist Party understood that it was necessary in the matter of equality to make things really change and not in appearance and for what to focus on the policies of conciliation and co-responsibility is absolutely necessary. But things rarely change with plans that talk about promoting, pushing or expanding measures if they are considered funds that will support them and support them, they don't provide more money. Because in the plan presented, for example, it is difficult to boost the implementation of infant schools in the industrial polygons, and curiously this match has been reduced from 1.75 million to 1.25 million, 500,000 euros less. They extend the same amount, too, for conciliation and demographic dynamisation two years ago, and even lower the game for the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare Services by 1,130,000 euros for some of the games. Budget allocation, something that this motion from the Group of the Environment calls for and that we, too, have repeated and demanded in different interventions in this House. The People's Party is speaking, in fact, in its amendment to this motion by the Group on Tide to increase funds for conciliation and co-responsibility programmes, and since the Socialist Group we have asked ourselves, how much? How much do you commit? Because trust in your words, as we said earlier, is in low hours, and the numbers supporting this plan are already in the document and they don't increase in the next three years. We do not oppose, at any rate, supporting this motion by the Group of the Tide, even though it vaguely compromises the Government, which would also deserve many nuances and our confidence that it is respected is already very low. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Motion author group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u90	Yes, indeed, trust is weakened, of course it is, because, as already exposed here, the data remains there. The data is that lost decade that Mrs. Rodil pointed out, because we still have a time devoted to the family far superior to men. According to the last survey, of 2018, since we almost followed it, we continued in almost two hours more devoted to the day, to the home, to the family, to all those conditions that make women the most surpluses take care of children as well as dependents and that then has consequences in the productive sphere and in that famous pay gap. Trust is difficult for these data and also because when we say that our motion has different points with a lot of content it seems to do it as a demerit, when we understand that it is positive, because conciliation is not an isolated measure, conciliation is a set of measures, and the ones we propose here are insufficient, and even those of the plan, the famous Co-responsibility Plan, are insufficient, because it is a cultural change. By going to the concrete measures of that plan — which, by the way, has continued to call I Plan after the exhibition of the BNG, I Plan, that lost decade is still manifest, at the end — and the amendments, starting with the People's Party, with the first amendment, in which they talk about presenting the plan to the Galego Council of Women, they are already recognizing that this plan has been presented, has advanced their presentation on some media issues, but it has been done without proper participation. We believe that we are still in force on our proposal we put on the motion. We can — yes, we do — offer you a transaction, that is to include some elements of your proposals but considering globally, considering maintaining the overall of our measures, especially on the subject of budgeting — since we speak of it, you said that budgets were put on the table; these are budgets, as the representative of the Socialist Party said, taken from different councils, to see how this budget of co-responsibility is being complied with; but, in any case, they remain below the average of the most advanced countries in Europe in terms of conciliation and are still leaving unexecuted departures. And besides, they're still talking about that Women's Employment Plan, and looking in the Official Journal of Galicia, we haven't found a execution beyond 2%, unless they break it into a question we've raised. As for the amendments to the BNG, we accept them, and they also reinforce two fundamental aspects: one, which we have already pointed out, which is to improve the attention to dependency, and consequently the bill that the State has with Galicia; it is simply to demand that the law be complied with in terms of funding. But it's also fundamental to the question of workers in the home sector, it's fundamental, because we're talking about how to reconcile is not to delegate care to workers in precarious circumstances. They're generating international care networks in which poor women in the third world look after the daughters of the first world, leaving their daughters or children in charge of other impoverished women or their families. Those care networks are also generated and precarious within their own countries. That's why it's intolerable that we continue without ratifying ILO Convention 189 on domestic work, and that these women, basically, are eighty-one percent more women, the people who work in the work at home, don't have the same rights as the rest of the working class. It's intolerable. That is why it is essential for us to highlight this question. Finally, to reconcile we need a set of politics and a cultural change, we also need to get out of this immediacy. In this sense, these types of proposals and such attempts to reach agreements are positive. We will try to make a transaction, but I would add that we will not accept the vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u91	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the impact of the current model of revalorization of tax pensions on the purchasing power of pensioners in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u92	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u93	Well, let's not stop talking about life in this case about older people's lives. And we are talking about a fundamental debate, because in the struggle to defend decent public pensions we play the model of society we want, we play a future of poverty for older people or social justice. Simple, it's simple, it seems simple, but it does. And it must, more than ever, defend the character of public pensions as a right. It's a central element of the welfare state. And that intergenerational solidarity, fundamental, protects people in their old age when they have no other way of increasing their income that, for example, that revaluation according to the IPC of pensions. In fact, the debate on the viability of pension systems for us has always been biased and interested. They're warning of their supposed insatiability to justify the decrease in public investment in pensions for, among other things, favouring private pension systems. We are continually applying the autocracy of austerity over the dignified lives of our older people. These older people, already at present — we are not talking only about the future, we are talking about what we are already talking about — are experiencing this impoverishment. What will happen to them if we don't defend, as I say, public pension systems? In our country, as we have stated here on numerous occasions, pensions are the main income of almost 30% of families, who are increasingly struggling to pay their bills. There was a new press release that collected the IGE data lately, which talked about 73,000 Greek families delaying payments of basic service bills such as light, gas, water, mortgage or rent. We're talking about almost 7% of the homes, doubling the figure that was last year and that, of course, is the highest figure since 2013. We're continually seeing that supposed recovery doesn't reach the social majority. The calculation is quite simple in terms of impoverishment: if wages and pensions are stagnant and if the prices of basic goods and services, especially as it has been exposed here today also in the full, especially renters and above all electricity, increase, the majority of society loses purchasing power. If we take into account what the CPI has evolved since the crisis, the accumulated data speaks of 12.7% compared to an average overall increase in pensions of 8.5%. Purchasing power was lost in 2017; if prices rose by an average of more than 2%, pensioners lost purchasing power. They have every right to be angry, because, above that they "know" -- between quotes -- that 0.25, they're sent a letter that's an insult. But, in addition, by linking with this idea that 30% of households have as their main income a pension, pensions in our country are exercising as income against poverty, they're making mattresses in the face of poor social protection aid and job insecurity. The situation of poverty in our country would be even worse if we didn't have the pensions, which are already the lowest in the state. So to act directly on increasing the purchasing power of pensions is also to act directly against poverty, it is to act directly against reducing those risk rates of poverty already immediately, it is to act to recover once again the domestic demand, which remains a pending subject of the Greek economy, and this would immediately result in an increase in the system's income through contributions. We assume that this loss of purchasing power that our elders are already suffering will be accentuated as soon as possible. Why? Because in 2019 this sustainability factor comes into force, which we qualify as a penalty for increasing life expectancy, and because that supposedly temporary measure is already established in the re-evaluation factor, which does not take into account the CPI for the calculation of the pension. Well, given this revalue factor, if the normal one in the expansive sets is that it's a 2% increase in the Spanish economy and a similar evolution in the IPC, the update automatically means a lack of purchasing power. That's why this motion goes to the bottom, it's just going to ask specifically to withdraw these two regression measures that assumed the sustainability factor and to stop updating pensions according to the IPC. It's very basic, it's a pact of minimums. In addition, given that we are — supposedly — at a high stage of the economic cycle, why can't the purchasing power of pensions be recovered? Trade union calculations, by the way, say that in the next decade, 15% of purchasing power will be lost in pensions. As we said, there is an interesting and talkative campaign on the alleged impossibility of the public pension system, and taking into account this, as we also said in the previous motion, given the fact that the Spanish State is the least public expenditure it invests in on this issue, generally in social benefits, but in pensions, 11.6 % below the eurozone average and the European Union's own set is twofold. The Reserve Fund, which had been created to assist this pension system when crisis situations prevented it from covering everything by means of contributions, when the economy is theoretically recovered, is still in deficit. They did not say, of course, that they had asked for a loan to rescue the bank from that pension fund. We are continually on that idea of the dictatorship of the reduction of the social state, and those who pay are always the most disadvantaged people, also the more than 750,000 Greek pensioners who know the reality of precariousness. We are no longer going to degrade the actual data of the average pension, because it is quite obvious — they have all statistics and newspapers — but only one data: 62% of the Greek pensions are below the poverty line, which reaches 68% almost in the case of women. The gender gap continues, also in old age. Women, on average, earn about 200 euros less per year, it's an intolerable difference, in addition to the fact that widowers' pensions are the lowest in the state, not the lowest, the lowest in the state. And if we talk about Lugo and Ourense, it's the provinces that have all the lowest pensions in the state. Widow's or self-employed pensions in Ourense provinces are of misery. And so if we don't recover the purchasing power of pensions, they're condemning all the Welsh pensioners to poverty, but especially the pensioners from the inside. They are pensions of misery and do not guarantee that constitutional right to decent pensions. There are alternatives — as we have seen in many initiatives here — that are due to improving productivity, derogating from the latest labour reforms, which have reduced the purchasing power of the working class and which have consequently reduced the income of the system through contributions. But there are also alternatives when it comes to the fact that the Spanish State is one of the lowest fiscal pressures in the euro area. So it takes determination and obtaining resources for tax pensions as well. Also, since the Junta competitions, what can you do? For he also has in his hand certain measures that would result in an improvement in the quality of life of older people. Apart from increasing support for non-contributory pensions, it could reduce payrolls or improve public services, and it could of course, as it proposes in Marea, implement a social income model that guarantees income supplementation to the most vulnerable people. So in this motion, we focus on these two central elements of the 2013 counter-reform: the sustainability factor and the update factor, and that's why these two are the only object of this motion. The revaluation factor, which is supposed to turn off the updating of inflation pensions, is the opposite, we argue that it is totally contrary to the legal arrangement. First, because it is obvious and contrary to Article 50 of the Spanish Constitution. Do not update pensions as the cost of living increases prevents this famous economic capacity that marks the Constitution. And according to this article, in addition, they must be adequate and periodically updated pensions. You cannot bet on the reformed article 135 to hand over the social state to the markets and in time leave without complying with Article 50. What do I say? Of course you can! That's what they meant. But, then, they're being constitutionalists in part-time: constitutionalists in 155 but not constitutionalists in articles that have to do with guaranteeing rights. It's also contrary to the legal system because this factor has retroactive effects, has effects on pensions that have been caused prior to the reform, and therefore they generate total self-defense, because it also violates another constitutional principle, which is that of retroactivity of laws. Moreover, it is also contrary to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which states that the element of revaluation of pensions is part of the count's calculation and as such is a fundamental element in the social protection of old age. We also point out to you that it is opaque, that it generates non-defense, that it is arbitrary to fix the content of revaluation and that we are faced with an unknown calculation formula at European level. Just as it cannot be constitutionalist in my opinion that article, it cannot be Europeanist in my view, because it is also contrary to international social legislation, which contemplates the revision of pensions in the light of changes in the cost of living, both the European Social Charter and the European Code of Social Security. It's unfair, because it doesn't take account of the counting of pensions. As for the sustainability factor, which we qualify as a penalty for the positive fact of mankind's increasing life expectancy, given that this application is advanced for 2019, above all it does not even fulfil the objective of reducing the continuum of pensions, because it is having a so-called early retirement effect, which increases the spending on pensions. This sustainability factor, which penalises the prolongation of life expectancy, as we say, implies that in thirty years we calculate a decrease in the purchasing power of the initial pension between 9% and 18%. For us, or we're derogating from these counter-reforms that cut down decent pensions or wait for us a future of more poverty for older people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u94	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u95	Good afternoon. I will begin by saying that on the side of the Galego Nationalist Block we will support this motion by En Marea, because we believe that it collects two fundamental points without which any of the issues that we can debate about the pension system will be unique and exclusively patches, just as we are seeing these days precisely the thread of state budgets and the advertising and propaganda of the empire. For us to eliminate this unsustainable sustainability factor and subject the debate to the question of revaluation are absolutely basic and the first step that we have to take to other steps that I will later describe. We understand that, in an increase in social mobilization such as what we are fortunately living, where the pensioners and the pensioners no longer bring that message that they are living above their capabilities, in view of this increase that is occurring from the collection and also from the economic capacity of the State, fruit of the exit of the recession, has no kind of credibility the message that the People's Party is launching from the state and from Galicia, or that it cannot do more by the public pension system or that other hidden message that we have been listening to during these ten years of recession that pensions are not sustainable. And I want to insist today that it is not a problem of lack of resources, but a problem of sharing the resources that exist. It is therefore urgent to derogate this mechanism. To show, a button — and I made some mention above Mrs Verao — I want to insist: that message sends the same party, the same state and the same government responsible for that during the socio-economic crisis, while the bank was given more than 60 billion euros, the pension box was emptied in parallel. Because we have to compare the two figures, those over 60 billion euros for the bank while since 2012 more than 54,000 million euros have been removed from the pension fund. So credibility, none, because the bank rescue cost a similar amount to the maximum that was accumulated in the Pension Reserve Fund, which was over €66 billion. In 2011, that is to say, at the very moment of the economic crisis, in a period of recession, it was the moment when there was the maximum accumulation of pension reserve fund. That shows that even in economic recession there is a capacity, depending on the model, to have money and resources for pensions. That's why it's not credible and we don't swallow that poisoned pill that wants us to believe the People's Party that when the macroeconomic framework grows, there's no money for pensions. Even more so, when we see that in the Spanish state the expenditure used to maintain the system with respect to GDP is less than the expenditure of the European Union as a whole, or as it is not that our pensioners and pensioners have great luxurys as to the accounts they receive, because it remains an average of about 70% of the European Union, and is going down. So what we are living in is not an economic disability, but an absolute lack of political will, because it is precisely at the service of that incarnated neoliberal agenda, which wants there to be insecurity about the pension system, that there is insecurity in the working class and that people come to those private pension funds systems, which are still minority in the Spanish state. It's funny — it's also contradictory — that they want the working class to contribute to this kind of mechanism when there are wages in this country and in this state. But finally, what we want to put on the table is that it is not just a coincidence that this is being given at this economic moment, and that it is no coincidence that all the reports on the dangers of the pension system are from banks and private entities. We insist that it is essential to overthrow that sustainability factor, and to do so urgently, because 2019 is already, and from this January 1, 2019, to what remains less than a year, we will see another big cut and armed robbery to pensions, this time with the excuse of life expectancy. That, by the way, we haven't heard what the excuses were — that I'm sure they'll arrive, even if they won't have credibility — to how that won't most impact women. And I also tell you, Mrs. Verao, that you and I should go change from province, because those of Lugo and those of Ourense are the ones that have the most life expectancy. But, play aside, we understand that this is a fundamental step, as well as recovering the actual annual revaluation. In this sense, we see since Greek nationalism as we have warned of this years ago when it was implemented and we welcome those state union forces who in their day took the photos with their respective governments and who today are calling themselves to mobilize. We're glad that it is, because of course we're going to have to be many and many in the street and also in the institutions to get a radical turn on this advanced pension system. As I say, we support these two specific questions that we have before us, and we think we should not stay there. Our horizon has to be a real recovery from those pensions, it has to be a guarantee of the public system, it has to be increased to a minimum interprofessional wage, which should also rise, and have to be placed on the table other debates, such as those that are really the best fifteen years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u96	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u97	...from the life of the worker and the worker who understands or how they stop giving themselves questions that we see today, as they really use early retirement as a covert form of ERE by many companies. In short, we have many challenges ahead, but of course we agree with the proposed group that the sustainability factor and the actual re-evaluation of pensions are two fundamental starting points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u98	Thank you, Mr. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Socialist men and women felt very proud of our public pension system, one of the five basic pillars of the public welfare system, a public welfare system driven and guaranteed during socialist governments. [[Applause]] And this public pension system allowed in a decade, in the Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, to provide a Social Security Reserve Fund of over 66,000 euros. [[Applause]] But in 2011, in a full election campaign, Mr. Mariano Rajoy lied — once again — to all Spaniards and all Spaniards. Obviously, Mrs. Prado del Río. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to get out here? Well, if you don't, please hang on to me. Good. [[Murmurs.]] He lied to all Spaniards and all Spaniards in an interview on November 5, 2011: "I'll put scissors on everything, less education, health and pensions." Too bad I wouldn't put scissors on any of these things! [[Applause]] But it's just that you immediately look after the Government, once they get to it, the People's Party applies its ideology, using the crisis as a perfect justification for imposing its policies. Look, they enter in 2011, and in the 2012 budgets they already start their government action and apply the regressive measures aimed at addressing the dignity of pensioners and pensioners in this country. First they pass a royal decree, 16/2012, establishing the pharmaceutical co-op; therefore, EUR 8 minus pensioners in each of the pensioners. First. Second. They pass decrees of laws that eliminate medicines from the pharmaceutical catalogue of Social Security. Second reduction in the purchasing power of pensioners. Rinse? [[Murmurs.]] Well, they shouldn't laugh, because soon you and we will get that and what the People's Party is going to do. Third. They harden the conditions of access to retirement. And lastly, the unilateral reform of the public pension system, carried out by Law 23/2013, regulating the sustainability factor and the rate of re-evaluation of the social security pension system. This law affects the length of pensions that are generated from 2019, the revaluation system, and establishes a modality of updating pension accounts that imposes a loss of the pensioner's purchasing power and hence its impoverishment. I remind you that it unties them from price developments, which means that, in positive inflation scenarios, they will always have a loss of purchasing power. The PP approves a 0.25% sustainability factor; that is, in ten years pensioners will have a 17.5% discount on the actual loss of purchasing power and in twenty years they will have a 30% loss, assuming a evidently 2% inflation, which is an objective set by the European Central Bank. Therefore, the PP conceives, as always, pensions as a expense, not as a right. Look, I'm gonna give them data, because they laugh, so they keep laughing, data from Mariano Rajoy's government. Fronte... Sorry? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u100	No one's laughing now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u101	...—have told me the time, right?—the governments of Rodríguez Zapatero, the structural deficit in the accounts of Social Security increases by 9,000 million euros and the Reserve Fund drops by more than 55,000 million euros. Look, the minimum retirement pensions charged during the time of Rodríguez Zapatero — seven years — have increased to EUR 257.11 plus; and for seven years Mr. Mariano Rajoy, 46.90 plus, that is, a fifth. [[Applause]] But look, I'm going to tell you: in Galicia we have EUR 144 less average in contributing pensions than the state, but it's that in all Galicia pensions occupy number 18 of 19, i.e. all autonomous communities more Ceuta and more Melilla. Curious, isn't it? The counsellor of Fairy, in the interpellation of the previous plenary that gave rise to this motion, said the solution is to increase employment and improve the quality of the motion. And we socialists are totally in agreement. But I'm going to tell you, do you know the reality of employment in Galicia since Mr. Núñez Feijóo ruled for eight years, since 2009? The number of unemployed people, the number of unemployed people, the number of unemployed people, the number of unemployed people, the number of unemployed people, and the number of unemployed people in 86,400, and the number of contracts in January — 2018 — 10.376, of whom 7.9 % are indefinite and 92 % are temporary...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u103	...—now finished, Mr President—and the Galician Union does not run in programme 32 (promoting employment and labour market institutions), in 2016, 100 million euros, and in 2017, 133 million euros, running only 56% of this game; i.e. 233 million euros not running. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party really dare to defend Mr. Mariano Rajoy's actions towards pensioners here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez. Time's up. Quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u105	They bring data, I have data here and, when they want, we corroborate them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Without the courage to bother, this opposition is missing rear-viewers. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, rearviewers; rearviewers to look back and rearviewers to look around. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u108	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u109	You have the opposition gentlemen, many dead angles, they can't even look back to see what they did when they ruled, nor do you have enough rearviewers to know what you did very close to here, where they ruled. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have good news to give you: you have in your hands the ability to raise pensions to more than half a million Greeks and Greeks, both of which you propose at the moment. And you know how? By approving the general budgets of the State. If you really want to do something for our pensioners, you have six votes in the Congress of Members of the Galician Socialist Party and you have five votes in the Pudimos tides. With those eleven votes we approved the state budgets and we raised the pensions to half a million Greeks. Do you accept? They vote in favour of budgets in the Congress of Deputies! The rest is speech. [[Applause]] Look, don't you guys want to raise minimum pensions? Don't you want to raise widow's pensions? Don't you want to raise non-contributory pensions? Or those who charge less than 850 euros? [[Murmurs.]] I don't think so, and that's why they're going to vote against the general budgets of the state, because they've already said so; they said it even before the general budgets of the state were presented. And that's your concern about the real problems of the Greeks and the Greeks and all of the Spaniards. That's the situation. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, I don't know if you speak on behalf of your entire group; if I do know that, in any case, it represents much the opinion of Mr. Luis Villares. Look, we think we have to take this seriously. You told us we're part-time constitutionalists. Look, what if we know is that we are constitutionalists day and night, day and night! And you know what? [[Applause]] We can detect up to three crimes in a police statement. Look, we don't accept any kind of lessons from them and I think the bronca doesn't deserve it from you, because it's the least appropriate to take it. But I would tell you that, of course, as your group behaves, tomorrow the leader or the alleged leader of your group has no legitimacy to appear before the president of the Galician board at the control session. That's the feeling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u110	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u111	...has no authority, and, if you have it, you'll soon leave it at home. I know you're very upset that you're called The Tides of Podemos, and that's why I've decided to change it: they're no longer called The Tides of Podemos, they're the Tides of Podemos, because they can't. That's their reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u112	Quiet. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Lago! Mr. Lago! [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u113	Look, do you know how to lick our national pension system? Do you know how to lick our national pension system? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u114	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u115	Creating job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u116	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u117	...and increasing the number of contributors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u118	Did we pull the bell? [[Mr. Santalices Vieira makes the bell ring.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u119	And, therefore, we cannot accept lessons from a party like the Socialist Party, which he did, in that remindered Government of Mr. Zapatero, to destroy 3,800,000 jobs. Look, do you know what we've done since we got to the government? Create 1,800,000 jobs. [[Applause]] And it's true that we're not able to create jobs at the same rate as you destroyed it, we're not able to. We are not able to create jobs at the same speed as you destroyed them when they ruled, by the way, with the complicity of these gentlemen who were very quiet at that time; there were no camps. So Mr. Manolo Lago was in that union which, by the way, supported the Socialist Government when in 2011 he extended retirement age to 67 years. Congratulations, Mr. Lago! [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I know you wanted to participate in the debate! [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, the truth is, I have to tell you that it is exciting to see a socialist claiming Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's government, because his legacy is that. I have to remind him of a date from those days, and somebody said it from those rows, he said, "If he left us with such well-being." That's what the PSdEG-PSOE leader said, sitting in that chair, "if we left our hand with so much well-being." Look, I don't know if they've got their hand, where they've gone to the destruction of their jobs: 3,800,000 unemployed; that's their legacy. Look, we shield pensions at the worst moment of the crisis, we increase them every year, little, but we increase them every year. [[Murmurs.]] What did you do at the same time in neighbouring countries? What did you guys do? [[Murmurs.]] Put them down! [[Murmurs.]] Look, in Portugal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u120	Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u121	...has lowered those left-wing pensions between 15% and 25%; in Greece, 13 consecutive pension discounts, up to 40% — Mr. Manolo Lago's friends.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u122	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u123	Look, that's the reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u124	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u125	...we shield the pensions. [[Murmurs.]] The revalue index...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u126	Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u127	...allows pensions to go up all the time, every year. That's the reality. Look, we increased the spending of pensions in our country: EUR 95,000 million dedicated to pensions in 2010, EUR 139,000 million in 2017. We've increased pension spending. And we have a proposal, which is to continue to increase them. How? By approving the general budgets of the State. What are you going to do? Vote for it. Opposition gentlemen, I think they're where they're not by chance. In any case, what's missing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u129	...they're rear-viewers and a bit of humility to assume all the damage they've done to the economy of this country. Don't get us wired with mill wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u130	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u131	The Socialist Party is responsible for this situation. By the way, thank Mr. Pedro Sánchez for this pension plan, I think he has accumulated 100,000 euros. Noraboa!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Motion author group, Mrs Vázquez Verao. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Mr. Lago, I'll have to call you in order. [[Murmurs.]] First time I call you in order. [[Murmurs.]] Calm down! Quiet for everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. A call to Mr. Lago's order, but calm down, please. Besides, we have guests. What a picture we're giving! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. It's Parliament. This is Parliament and I remind everyone! And we have some guests. Let's give a normal picture, if possible. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u133	Yes, indeed! I'm sorry for the guests, but that's a shame! And I assure you, Mr Tellado, that I speak on behalf of my entire group, what a surety of intervention! You even have the courage to talk about dead, dead angles. [[Applause]] Do you have any kind of lesson to teach when Sergas' high office is charged with murder because of the delays in hepatitis treatments? And they have lessons to teach!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u134	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u135	Finally, the crisis as an excuse. In fact, the crisis cannot be used as an excuse. Nor, by the way, to compromise that Article 135; nor, by the way, to that. And we're not going to accept crumbs of these budgets in exchange for rights, because we're talking about rights and we're talking about the sustainability of this public pension system. We're talking about one of the central elements of the welfare state. And you're talking about Portugal and you're talking about Greece. It is a shame that they speak of Greece when you, from the European institutions, drowned in everything that the Greek people could; now they say: oh! they failed. Of course!, they failed, how will they not fail if they have made a coup d'état from the European institutions? The same thing they did in the Spanish state with the bank rescue and 135, the same thing. The same thing and we're paying those consequences. [[Murmurs.]] And I think it's necessary to achieve a great political pact to recover the state of well-being and yet I personally do not resign myself to that. Because this is a matter, as Mrs Presas said, of political will, because there are alternatives to increasing the income of the system. But, of course, there are alternatives from another ideological position, because only with flat rates to hire, just eliminating that issue, social security would recover nearly 2,500 million euros a year, which would be enough to revalue pensions according to the IPC. There are alternatives if you cancel work reform and end with precariousness and increase system income. There's an alternative if you're looking for income through the tax route. And there's an alternative if it ends up with the tax benefits for private pension plans, which would have just suddenly assumed about 2,000 million euros more, or if the maximum premiums are eliminated. There are alternatives, of course, if you don't burden yourself with responsibility over the usual ones, if you don't use the crisis as an excuse to keep stealing from us the usual ones. It doesn't give me time to answer more questions that I had noted. Finally, women — which is something that Mrs Presas has mentioned — are obviously penalizing us more because we live longer and because we are going to be the poorest women in the state. But here we will continue to claim a public pension system, say what they say in their interventions. They think that this is — I don't know — the Congress of Members, here we are in the Galician Parliament and we are putting forward a proposal would, by the way, be the same as we are presenting at the Congress of Members and you have seen it. Don't let her go, and we can also guarantee public pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u136	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the number of access squares to the qualification of medicine, and to avoid the deficit and precariousization of employment in public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u137	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u138	Thank you, President. In fact, sometimes one is surprised at the number of arguments that come to use here in a way... I'm going to copy the word of sapphire; the truth is that I liked it and it's quite appropriate. I don't understand what the problem is with the use of each person's funds; if anyone is surprised by a fund of 80,000 euros, then, I don't know, Rajoy's declared heritage is 72,000, or Mr. Feijóo's private pension fund of 150,000. Let's see if Mr. Tellado has the courage to come up here and say so, and he's critical of it. [[Applause]] Because seeing if it's going to be that the capitalization of private funds is also on the right, they can only have pension funds on the right, they can only be. That's a curiosity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u139	Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u140	From the patrimonialization of facts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u141	Silence! That's what we're talking about. Mr. Torado, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u142	Don't worry, that we're also going to talk about the patrimonialization of the facts that makes the right, that there is for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u143	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u144	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u145	We're going to the health issue, which is very important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u146	I agree, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u147	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But don't talk about it! But, gentlemen, please, this debate is over. [[Murmurs.]] And in addition, we have all made the statement of heritage in this Parliament, which is public. That's it! The story is gone! [[Murmurs.]] Please, Mr. Torrado, on the health issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And besides, I like to be told that we go to health care, because in the past plea I was recriminalized that on this subject I had talked about health care. I like it, Mr President, that I am right and that this issue is a health issue, not just a university one. I appreciate your support in that regard. [[Applause]] The truth is, the University College Councillor had an interpellation in which we discussed fifteen days ago, three weeks ago, on this issue, and with certain regret, we must say it; the truth is, I disagreed a little. He made some statements — most of them in the second intervention, where it is more common for the People's Party to make statements, when there is no right to reply, such things as: "You have made an error for ignorance," "You have made a mistake," "You have made a foot", "You don't know the procedure." He even said, "It seems he came here to talk about health" — now, with the support of the President of Parliament, I know I didn't do it so bad — and he even said, "I tried to be pedagogical, but I couldn't explain the procedure." And he recriminalized me that this procedure of what we were talking about — the limitation of squares of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Santiago — was marked, for example, by the organic law of universities, and that, of course, I was asking who I shouldn't, who was to the Government of the Union. He quoted to me article 43 of the LOU to tell me that how could I ask the University College of Ordination for that? Article 43: "Self-Governing communities shall carry out the programming of the teaching supply of public universities of their competence and their various centres, in accordance with them and in accordance with the procedures they establish". Gives the feeling that LOU gives us reason, curiosity! It must be a counselor's mistake. I was criticized for making a health assessment, although it was recognized that he had a specific relationship with Sergas to determine the number of health facilities, as is obvious to anyone. It was criticized that we had come here to ask, when it's not an arbitrary decision. That's why we ask, because it's not an arbitrary decision, because it's a political decision. Because for that are the governments, to decide on politics. We've been criticized for the fact that whoever makes the proposal to the Ministry isn't the College of University Ordination. How it's gonna be! It's Galician Clinical Teaching Council. So one, very kind of guide, goes to the CEO and asks: if you don't do it to the Galician Board, who is the Council for the Coordination of Clinical Teaching in Galicia? For the Council for the Coordination of Clinical Teaching of Galicia, as an advisory body, is a member of the General Secretariat of Universities, which depends, oh, curiosity!, on the Council for Education and Universitary Ordering of Galicia. Moreover, among the functions of a body that depends on the Board of Education is issuing reports on the supply of markets for entry into the degrees of Health Sciences. Conclusion: there's a proposal from the University to reduce squares, and Junta has to make a decision on whether to accept it, whether to correct it, whether to forward it or not. And there's no one who wants to give an opinion. You don't even think about it? Because last week they asked the Health Counsellor about this subject, about what his position was. And his answer — with the fantastic approach of the board of directors — was: neither support nor support. Great! neither support nor support, which is a good way to make politics: I don't say what I think, it won't be that someone knows, they're government but I don't care; I don't support or stop supporting. You must have certain criteria for health policy because... a bit of Cifuentes. But the truth is, someone wants to know something, someone wants to know something. Yes, from Cifuentes, that's what I'm not saying or saying, from Cifuentes, a criterion... Not weak, but Cifuentes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what is your position? What do you think you should do? It's a simple question. [[Murmurs.]] What do you think about the University's proposal to reduce squares? What do you think? Because they'll think of something, at least. That's our question, and you have no answer. We brought here today a motion that posed some things. For example, since certain reports have to be issued... one does Sergas, for example. How obsessive we are when asking about a health matter! Curiously, one does it to Sergas. It is that this Clinical Teaching Council consists mostly of staff from the Council; especially the Health Council. See if it's gonna be someone who didn't know what the Council was going to do, he's the education advisor. This Sergas report we asked for. And I should be ready, because it's tomorrow's Council meeting. What do you think? The People's Party, what do you think about the University's proposed reduction of squares? What is your position? That's our question. And we are asking for those reports today, because we believe that they are important — the report that the Clinical Training Council itself has to do, we are asking you to talk to the University to take the measures that are necessary to get the best possible information. You know, we need to talk to the university, to the public university. It's very important to talk to the university. They don't ask him to validate things, it's just to wake up some questions. By the way, if they go, they raise the minutes of the meeting, which they don't remember when they go to college. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you think of this issue? Do you have any criteria for what's going on at the public university? I know you're not talking about the public university, but do you have any criteria about this? Would you mind something? What will your position be on the request for reports and the proposal to evaluate, in conjunction with the University, the expansion of squares or not and the means or resources needed? What is your position? Because you, with the public university, I know, have a criterion. The truth is, the evolution of the public university is very interesting. Historically they could only study those who had a lot, just the rich, by saying it vulgarly. The implementation of universal education systems, public systems, allowed access to the university of all social layers. You found out a new trick: they used to study only the rich, now they only study the poor. The others pay for the title. [[Applause]] Of course, nobody denies that you're skilled at this. But please give us an opinion about what they think, because they have it. Because tomorrow the Council met; therefore, you will have some discretion on this. And, moreover, we propose to establish a recruitment plan. Because we think there's a shortage of health personnel. I know it's very daring to talk about health in this matter. But, look, we're talking about the formation of future doctors and doctors in Galicia. And we think it's important to make clear what we want, if we think it's necessary to reduce training, if we think it's necessary to equal it, if we think it's necessary to increase it... you can go out here doing some show, as did the previous spokesperson of the People's Party, but you just have to have an opinion. Will you be able to have an opinion on whether to reduce, equal or increase the squares? And it's very easy. The University makes a proposal to reduce medicine markets. Our position is very simple: we believe that there is a personal need for medicine because it is necessary to have the greatest possible training capacity. Why? Because there's a staff deficit, and more doctors and doctors need to be generated. You guys think the same thing as us? If they'd think the same thing as us, they'd bet on increasing these squares. Because the counselor said here — three weeks ago, in the plenary — that the final decision does not tend to be the one that he proposed to the University. Of course, the final decision tends to be the one that proposed Joina. That's why we ask, because we want to know what the government thinks. We also have a certain control task. I know you consider yourself to be a hidden art, but between sneaking away and saying that neither support nor giving up on it, the truth is that you'll have to have an intermediate position. So give some opinion about what's going on at the university. If it can be, I'll tell you, believe it and raise the record to remember you're going to the meetings. Because then they come to college and they don't wake up, and they have titles and they don't know where. And the truth is, they have records, but they don't have titles... you have a problem with college. Please give an opinion on what's going on with the medical squares, if possible, and if they have it. Because tomorrow there's a meeting that's going to decide whether they're expanding or not, whether they're reducing or not reducing the medical squares. What do you think? They've got a good chance to say it, see if this one goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u149	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Before we pass on to the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we will greet the students and students from the center of Our Lady of the Great Eyes, Lugo, who today accompany us with 24 students in exchange at the Lycée Joseph Saverne Centre in France, all secondary. Welcome to Parliament. And I also greet our guests, who have been with us for some time. I now give the floor to the representative of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u150	Good afternoon to all and to all. And to the students and students of Lugo and France, good afternoon and welcome and welcome. We continue to talk about professionals, we continue to talk about employment and employment policies. And we are continually watching in this Parliament the situation that every time we deal with initiatives urging that professional, optional, nurses squares be covered, the answer is always the same, that there are no professionals. If we ask pediatricians, which I've already said in the morning that it's an extinct species -- and it's depopulating Galicia and, apart from young people and girls who have to take the path of emigration, the following are the pediatricians -- for the answer is always the same, that there is not. And it seems there's no such thing as a biblical curse: they've disappeared, there's no. And, of course, there is and it turns out that the People's Party does nothing to make it. Because it's not that we suddenly got up in the morning and disappeared. There was no bubonic plague, no, it's a process, this thing is a process. For if you don't form or if you don't do health and work policies that make professionals who are trained, or who are trained in a sufficient amount, you want to perform your work in decent conditions, if you don't offer them contracts in decent conditions, because they don't stay, they go where they offer them working conditions where they can develop their life projects. And the answer is that there is always no. There are no professionals available to be able to hire, to cover discounts, holidays, licenses or services. And there's no reason the People's Party doesn't want it to be, because it has its road map very clear. In order to improve public health, there must first be no professionals available in sufficient quantity or quality. And in the BNG we have very clear that in order to have quality public services, in order to have quality public health, it is necessary, essentially — part of other things — to have or obtain trained, qualified and sufficient professionals. And what is evidence is that the Government of the People's Party is what it's doing in both past legislations and what it's about legislation is mistreating that human capital. It does so directly and then it also allows it to be done from other instances. I believe that it has been perfectly explained in this respect, which seems, in fact, unwarranted with everything we have already discussed in this Parliament with regard to the situation, essentially lack of optional staff but also other specialties. I'm going to give you a few data that should cause the alarms to skip. The retirements produced between 2011 and 2017, for example, in pediatricians were 165; in family doctors, 315; midwives, 65. And the average of these professionals over 50 years of age is 54.77% of the workers. We're talking about a situation that should cause the alarms to jump. So, in the face of this situation, we find that the Faculty of Medicine decides to reduce professionals. We find that, despite repeatedly bringing initiatives to this Parliament demanding that the Greek Government ask for more MIR and EIR training squares, we meet with the People's Party wall, which does not meet these demands, and the increase is garnered. In the face of these needs of professionals, the increase is empirical. So, in the face of situations like these, that there is a human resources plan of Sergas himself where what is clearly seen is that there is an aging of very high professionals, essentially of optional and nursing, how is it possible that you then go to a reduction in the Faculty of Medicine and that there is no demand for an extension of the squares, MIR and EIR fundamentally, and then say that there are no professionals? Do you have an explanation? Only the explanation of a government that aims to dynamize Galician public health, has no more explanation than that. He's got no more explanation than that. It's not understandable to anyone who has a public health condition in his head, he has none. [[Applause]] With which, the BNG will support this initiative and we present an amendment to point 5 for a reason. In point 5, the Socialist Party's initiative calls for a stable recruitment plan and calls for an OPE of 1,750 squares per year during the 2018 to 2020 years. In the amendment by the BNG we call for an employment stability plan to negotiate immediately on the sectoral table and to establish a staff framework with the right ratios, and what we ask is that we end with the policy of precarious recruitment and call for the full range of vacant squares. And the vacant squares in Sergas are currently derived from Sergas's own data, which has just called for transfers. And what do we meet when we call a transfer contest?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u152	Well, there's practically 6,000 vacant squares. Turns out they're coming here sucking up saying there's no temporality in Sergas and summoning 1,680 squares. And we found that there are 6,000 vacant squares. I mean, temporality in Sergas is scandalous. So, it seems to us that it is a step forward that the Socialist Party proposes, it seems to us to be insufficient. We're going to vote the same way, because it's a step forward. But what we're asking is that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u154	...the total number of vacant squares is almost 6,000. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u156	Thank you, President. Well, to see if the issues raised by the Socialist Party's spokesman are more successful than the questions we raised during the morning to the Health Counsellor concerning their opinion, or to their approach, with the nursing specialties, because it seems that the Health Council has no position on the need for more or less midwives, of more or less nurses and nurses of hierarchy or of the rest of the specialty of disease. It's rather regrettable that the Health Council has no position, but that's it. Let's see if the Group of the People's Party is positioned in the case of medical specialties and medical career itself at the University of Santiago de Compostela. This is a central theme, it is a relevant theme, a problem of professional failure in the Galician Health Service, common to the rest of the National Health System but which, of course, in each community has a number of specific features. Planning in the National Health System is a disaster. I think we can assert it in a round way, because we can't get to a situation like this, in which there is a lack of so many medical specialties. First of all, then, I don't know, we've been in some specialties for perhaps over fifteen years having difficulty covering some professionals, or warning that we're going to have difficulty covering these professionals. I remember anesthesia and pediatrics, which were the most usual. And in this situation nothing was done, no measure was taken. And it's a circumstance that obviously gets worse as time goes on, for obvious reasons, because professionals and professionals retire. It is estimated that in the coming years, and in the whole of the National Health System, 21% of medical professionals have to retire, this circumstance measures the severity of the problem of the absence of planning for many years, very responsible, in our understanding, of the needs of the system itself as compared to medical professionals. And, indeed, the Socialist Party's spokesman here was supposed to speak about what tomorrow will be about the number of people who will be able to take office in medicine and then, of course, also about the number of residence squares that are granted to us. Indeed, we agree that the report of Sergas technicians to the parliamentary groups referred to the recommendation on the number of students to be admitted will be forwarded. Because it would be good to know the approach of the Health Administration and to refer the report of the Council for the Coordination of Clinical Teaching in Galicia on this provision of squares in the degrees of Health Sciences. It's, of course, information, something very revolutionary that we're used to asking and that is usually not provided. We have to get rid of irony now because it's quite common that reports in this House are not provided. And, of course, when you evaluate with the University that human resources, that physical resources, and also the point where you talk about the planning of the residential squares. We cannot understand how this circumstance has been passed over all these years, and it is a direct responsibility of the Ministry of Health. A disaster in planning and managing, and cannot be reached at this point. But there's also a direct responsibility of the fairly obvious Health Council, which is that it has to be who makes an "inventories" of which are the professionals that we need, how many are going to retire in the current years, in the coming years, and that in the short and medium term make a logical, acceptable planning that can be transferred to the Ministry. That should be normal. However, we now find ourselves in a situation of uncertainty in which we have to take extraordinary measures, such as that approved by the People's Party in the amendment of the Health Act concerning non-Community professionals. There are problems in some autonomous communities with professionals who don't have an approved qualification in our country. And my attention is very much drawn to me — even though there are other countries that have, of course, titles that are homologable in spite of being extra-Community, so much attention is paid to me, because, there will be a thing of a year, speaking of this matter in the 5th Health Commission, we proposed a series of measures, including hiring professionals from outside, and I was told that this could not be done because it was very expensive. And that would justify that these contracts could not be made, and therefore that they just as they didn't have professionals. That was one of the proposals, one of many. Obviously, we are going to support this motion because we understand that it is the minimum requirement, the information and knowledge of the positioning of the Council of Health and the Education Council of Galicia's own board of directors with regard to how many and which professionals will be trained to replace the shortcomings we have. I repeat that we have a serious situation, resulting from a disastrous planning and also from the restrictive measures imposed by the Central Government and by the Greek Government itself which "required" to retire to many professionals, and now we're crying through the corners asking them not to retire because we don't have professionals to replace them, or even the cuts or restrictive measures -- already mentioned — as to the economy that for many years have been increasing these amortizations of squares. And from this mismanagement and administration comes the current situation of deterioration of the National Health System and the Galego Health Service. We're going to support the motion and we're also waiting to see if we can hear some kind of answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u158	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I also greet students from Our Lady of the Great Eyes, Lugo, who are accompanied by French students, and the audience who accompany us in the rostrum. Mr. Torrado, less than a month ago, in the previous plenary session and in this House itself, the Education Counsellor was clearly and concretely responding to a part of the motion before us today. But you, you're wrong that you're wrong, I imagine, with a clear purpose of wear and confusion, with the same mantra as ever. But, look, reality is what it is, the Government is well anchored and health in our community enjoys good health. You bring five points in your motion. As for the first and the second, I repeat to you what we all hear and what we almost all understand in this House to the Education Councillor. Articles 43 and 44 of the LOU regulate the competences in determining the markets offered at public universities, as well as the establishment of maximum student admission limits. And he also told us that in Galicia the procedure for determining the offer of squares in official degrees and master's degrees in universities of the University System of Galicia was established in the instructions of February 12, 2015 of the General Secretariat of Universities. And the concrete case of the offer of squares for entry into the degrees in Health Sciences given in the Greek university system is regulated by Decree 104/2011 of 12 May, so the Council for the Coordination of Clinical Teaching in Galicia is created. Since the offer of squares in Health Sciences titrations needs the preceptive report of the Council for the Coordination of Clinical Teaching in Galicia, we also hear here that is planned, as it was said, a meeting by tomorrow, April 11. Mr. Torrado, it will be at this meeting of the Council for the Coordination of Clinical Education, which is represented by the Council of Culture and Education, the Council of Health, the Sergas — which prepares an annual report on the forecast of professional needs in the medical field — of the Greek university hospitals and the three Greek universities, where the number of students to be admitted in the course 2018-2019 is agreed. It does not depend solely on Sergas' approach, it tells the opinion of all the parties. In any case, look, the number of squares that are finally convened is always tailored to the expected needs of doctors in Galicia, and you know that the number of squares that are formed at the Faculty of Medicine in Santiago this year is 360. As far as number 3 of your motion is concerned, it's been agreed months ago. And you speak, in number four, of developing the necessary actions to conquer an extension of MIR squares in Galicia, taking into account the recommendations of Sergas' technical reports. Mr. Torado, there's nothing else you can do. Of course, from Sergas the templates are analyzed, the evolution of the templates. Calculations are made based on the multiple factors that affect them. It's estimates that Sergas does constantly. But, look, we're talking about a six-year-old profession, one, two or three years-old to prepare an MIR exam, four or five years-old; that is, ten or eleven years-old. I don't think this is easy for you. We have been training MIR for 40 years in Spain, a highly qualified MIR, with professionals of excellence also trained in hospitals of excellence. Look, this year, in 2018, 14,450 presented — a thousand more than last year — 6,500 offered squares, and nearly 8,000 candidates remain for that training. Are we still training more doctors? That's the point. And, to conclude, point 5 calls for a stable multiannual recruitment plan. Mr. Torrado, 1,616 squares in the 2017 OPE, the squares have doubled. There's a provision of approximately 5,000 squares by 2020. We have the highest stability in the Spanish Government — yes, sir — with the eventuality target set at 5% when the Central Government calls for 8%. I recommend you read the DOG on February 7, 2018. The reform of the Health Act, which you voted against, comes to give stability and improve the Greek Health System: public offers of annual employment, competition for permanent open transfers, improvement of the working conditions of temporary staff with a new contract of recruitment, the possibility, through the current reform of the Health Act, of linking the extra-Community professionals and flexibility in retirement age, among others. Look, you're asking for things on this motion that are not the exclusive decisions of the Galician Union, except on the subject of employment stability. This is competence, and here I remind you of the DOG of 7 April 2017, in which the health adviser signed with the main professional unions, CESM, O’Mega, SATSE and CSIF the Plan for Employment Stability and the provision of squares of the staff statuari del Servicio Galego de Saúde 2017-2018. And finally, recalling their opinion here about what's going on in cameras at five miles from Galicia, we focus the debate in Galicia, we're going to talk about Galicia and we're going to ask what you think about what's going on in this House. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. For the motion's own group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, without a doubt, for the groups who have shown support for this motion. We're not going to accept the BNG amendment. Although we basically share what he says, we prefer our formulation because we have the built economic construct on how to do it and we adjust ourselves better to this. On the position expressed by the People's Party — the non-position expressed by the People's Party — we are surprised that they say "they answered you last week." No, they answered the same thing that I have heard now, that this is yes but no, but yes, and that it is something that already says the LOU and that therefore does not correspond to us; and that, in addition, this corresponds to the Galego Council of Clinical Teaching. I'll read it again, see if we can find out. Or what LOU tells LOU about who is responsible is: "Self-Governing communities will schedule the provision of education from public universities of their competence and their various centres, in accordance with them and in accordance with the procedures they establish." As far as we know, this is an autonomous community, and Santiago, which is the university that has the faculty of medicine, is in Galicia. This article therefore states that the University Education Council, which is competent in this area, has the decision. There's a Clinical Teaching Council in Galicia, yes. Where does it depend? From the Council of Education and Universitary Order of the Council of Galicia. It's more, who's the compound, who's the president? The head of the College of Education and Universitary Order. And who's the vice president? The head of the Health Council, or the people they delegate to. But if it's you! Your answer as to whether to increase, reduce or maintain the squares at university is to say that this is already in the law and that they have nothing to say? But if you're the ones who have to think! If it's Galician Union! You can't go up here and say, no, it's just... something happens: you don't want to say what you think about it. You don't want to tell what you think about it, because you have a problem, because you don't want to face anyone. But they have a problem because you have the opinion. No, they say it will be said by the Galician Council of Clinical Education. He's meeting tomorrow. But when you're going to get the opinion of Junta de Galicia! When will they meet? Tonight? Were you going to decide tonight? But you think this is a master of King Juan Carlos! Here we have to think about things. [[Applause]] Meet tomorrow. [[Strong murmurers.]] You don't have an opinion about the meeting you have to go to tomorrow to define your position on whether or not to increase or reduce university medical evidence, don't you have an opinion? You think you buy opinions here like you buy titles in King Juan Carlos, but do you have any opinion? Did you buy a title at King Juan Carlos? I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u161	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u162	But do you have any opinion about this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u163	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u164	They answered three times and still can't say if they think of something or something. You guys have a problem and they don't want to say what they think, or they probably don't care. But have a question, it's tomorrow. So, if those reports exist, I suppose Sergas will have done his job and there will be that report by tomorrow, I suppose, they won't do as some reports or acts that make them falsified afterwards, I suppose they won't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u166	I suppose Sergas will have issued that report. We call on the parliamentary groups to have this report, and we call on the Galego Council of Clinical Education to facilitate that report. How hard is it to make a report? Do you consider it an art to hide things? It's seen that in the last few days, they're giving titles to which they're doing better. But do you consider this an art? It's information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u168	—Finished, President. If you think this is not your obligation, the law — the one you appeal to to say that it gives you the reason — says it's your competition. You guys, the truth is, what they show is that something has to hide, because they don't even want to give this opinion. I mean, you thought it right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u170	But in any case, health professionals would need that opinion, precisely, because they can't count on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u171	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u172	The debate is over. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We are voting on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, the initiative by Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in the field of equality, conciliation and co-responsibility, as well as attention to dependent people. You accept the amendment, you have accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and I understand you're going to make a deal with... What do you want the word for, Mrs. García Míguez? Excuse me, please give your seat a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u173	We would like to ask for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u174	I told you not to. You've already told him in the speech that you're not going to accept the point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u176	I understand what you said. In your intervention you already told him not to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u177	Ah! All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u178	So we voted for this motion with the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of In Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao and 13 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in the field of equality, conciliation and co-responsibility, as well as on the attention of dependent persons The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u179	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the impact of the current model of revalorization of tax pensions on the purchasing power of pensioners in Galicia. No amendments were tabled. G.P. Motion vote. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the impact of the current model of revalorization of tax pensions on the purchasing power of pensioners in Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Torrado, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the number of access squares to the medical qualification, and in order to avoid the deficit and the precariousness of employment in public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u180	Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You accept the point-by-point vote. And why didn't you accept... [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, I have to make this clear. He accepts the vote by points but does not accept the amendment. No, no, I'm voting for points. So... He didn't accept the amendment, so we voted for points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Which point do you want to split? The last point. Let us vote first on the last point. Vote for the last point of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the number of access squares to the qualification of medicine, and to avoid the deficit and precariousization of employment in public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 25 votes against, 36 abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, except for the last point, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the number of access squares to the qualification of medicine, and to avoid the deficit and precarious employment in public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, these points are rejected and, consequently, the motion is rejected. The vote on the motions was finished. Open the doors, please. We turn to non-law proposals. Non-legislative proposal by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the increase by the Government of Greece in the number of jobs of disability assessment teams in Galicia in order to eliminate waiting lists
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u181	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u182	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u183	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. First of all, I want to welcome our guests today, the President of Cermi Galicia, the representative of Down Galicia, Fegadace, Cogami and Fagal. Thank you very much for attending this plenary meeting today to follow up the debate on this initiative. In June 2017, the PSdEG brought the same initiative as we are going to discuss today — rather than leading to Commission 5th. The first question is, why do we repeat this initiative? So let's bring it back because then the People's Party voted against, it was the only group that did so, and what we asked was that the increase in the number of disability assessment teams had been requested. We brought her back, as she said, because they voted against, because they were left with this pending subject last year, and we're going to see if we can take a break today, and in addition because the situation, far from improving, what she did this past almost year was to get worse at fast steps. Today there is a waiting list in disability assessments that is absolutely unacceptable and, in addition, one more show of the slimming diet that the People's Party's Government has been submitting social policies in recent years. This despite having an inheritance received, a good inheritance, that Law of promotion of personal autonomy and of attention to the dependent people that we have set in motion the socialists and of which, as I always say and will continue to repeat, we feel very proud and proud of it. And all they had to do was feed those policies, budgets, and, on the contrary, what they're putting into effect miracle diets that socialists don't want. A recognition of disability carried out through evaluation teams directly dependent on the territorial heads of the Social Policy Council. There are in the seven cities, the number of teams in the Coruña is four, in Ferrol, in Santiago and in Place of two, and in Ourense, Pontevedra and Vigo there are three assessment teams that are now in force. One rule, a attention which comes from the order of November 25, 2015, which regulates this procedure and establishes -- and I want to stress it here today -- a maximum time limit for solving these three-month requests. What we've found is with waiting lists, as I said, unbearable throughout the autonomous community, but which are particularly significant and serious right now in Pontevedra province, where the applications that are being processed today were registered at the Council in July 2015. I mean, what should be three months of evaluation and administrative procedure is going on for almost three years. In the province of Pontevedra, therefore, there are only 7,000 requests above those tables, of the territorial headship, and there are in total all the autonomous community — in all those delegations of the Galician Union — 17,000 requests pending resolution. And why is this done? Because if a three-month deadline is set, they end up solving within three years. Well, the truth is that this extraordinary faculty that the Public Service has, which is collected in that order on November 25, 2015, the Greek Government is using as a usual practice. This recognition is important, it's not a little paper anymore. People legally recognized by these physical and psychic limitations receive a certificate, a degree of disability that gives access to certain rights and certain benefits, by setting examples: reduction in IRPF, exemption in certain taxes, subsidies for mobility, the right to access certain oppositions, public employment squares. It's important not only for these people, and I want to highlight it here today, but also for their families. We cannot forget those caregivers, those mothers, those sisters who are the ones who are caring for these people and who are also waiting to receive those benefits from the Dependency Law. Some serious prejudices that the Socialist Group and the rest of the opposition groups not only denounced, but also that the People's Valley itself in 2016 — no report of that year — highlighted the unacceptable conduct and set as an example, for example, that there were several people who could not submit themselves to public employment markets because they did not have this disability certificate. This, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly serious, because it happens precisely in the autonomous community that has the lowest rate of occupation of persons with disabilities in all Spain. An excessive period, as I said, of delaying the consolidation of a right that in many cases these people die before they have recognized it. It must be remembered that 32% of the people who are applying for this degree of disability are over seventy-five years old. And I also want to remember them today, a distressing expectation for those people who are going through a complicated socio-economic situation. The neglect of these teams is nothing new, the lack of human resources, human resources and material resources has been a constant in recent years, and it is enough that they are not even replacing the casualties of the Union's own staff. They've been in 2002, exactly sixteen years, without convening squares for these disability rating teams. And of course, from those places, these muds, a waiting list of 17,000 files across the autonomous community. In view of this situation, what did the German Government do? Give me squares? No, no, no, no. What he did was a remedy, to sign a collaboration agreement between two advisors, the one about Social Policy and the one about Health, to make — in the end and after all — increase the workload of Sergas' own staff. What is required of these backup personnel? To be a health leaver of Sergas, mostly and preferably whether they are family doctors, work doctors or primary care doctors, or hospital emergencies, as if these staff were not over-burdened enough. And besides, a 20-hour semi-presenceal course, where only 12 hours are present for -- I repeat -- replacing jobs like those of the evaluation teams of people who have been working for decades and are specialized in bodily harm, mainly. In addition, the order of 25 November is required, since in Article 6 it says that each valuation body must have a minimum composition. And what you're doing is replacing that doctor that should be mandatory by a Sergas doctor, which is something that — I repeat — cannot be done on the basis of this order. And it also violates Article 19.6, since this assessment by Sergas's optionals can only be done — according to his own order — by special circumstances of the person concerned and which he cannot, for some reason, turn to these equipment. I repeat, special circumstances requested by the person who is requesting this certificate, not by a discretionary and unilateral decision of the Council. In addition, as stated in the collaboration agreement itself — and I want to quote in writing — "The files reported by these professionals will not need the people valued to come to the consultation." Only if you collect this, in fact, exceptional, i.e., medical ratings are distance ratings. As far as social valuation is concerned — which we consider to be very important and that it has long been relegated to a background — is the fact that the applicant has to be what he expressly believes. What if you don't have this rating? So in many cases a loss of fifteen points in that global valuation file. The same thing happens, too, with the valuation of workers and social workers. In the light of the lack of flexibility in the implementation of this convention, this was done by giving back the staff of the Social Policy Council, who on many occasions called for that cooperation agreement, which he wanted to have in this regard and which he could not have. I had it when we asked for it through article 9, by the way, late. Requiring requirements to supply specialists who are the miracle diet of thinning waiting lists, which the president of the Union announced the bomb and dish. It's a short-sighted measure which means a small amount of service, which throws balloons out and which also means a very expensive patch for the administration itself. It is EUR 360,000 that has been invested in this partnership agreement in these two years. We've been claiming for years not to increase the workload of the Galician board staff, nor through overtime of assessment teams, nor the Sergas staff, but what we're asking for is an increase in the number of jobs. We hope that today — even if it is late, bad and bad — this initiative will go ahead. It's important because we cannot now eliminate the problems that all these people have suffered because of these delays. But what we can do is we can alleviate those pending requests and also avoid all those people who ask for a disability assessment in the future. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. The Galician People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Marta Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From here I also want to greet the representatives of the disabled who are with us today. Well, we're talking today about something that is not new in this Chamber and that consists of the delays in the processing of the degree of disability assessment in both new applications and revisions. A situation with which the Group of the People's Party is also concerned and, in short, it wants to be resolved as soon as possible, as we have shown in other interventions. Although the German Government has been taking some steps to solve it, it is a situation that is being complicated by several causes, the first is precisely the characteristics that the complexity of the valuation procedure, which prevented the resolution of recognition of the degree of disability within the time limits set by the norm. The objective we share with you, Mrs Blanco — I do not doubt — of reducing the number of files currently pending recognition and achieving assessment within the time limit is not a matter that depends solely on the reinforcement of equipment and the increase in staff. It's much more complex. In each particular case, in each section, there is a different problem — as you know sometimes in the Administration — and that has been analyzing so far. The second reason is that there has been an increase in the number of applications in Galicia, and this leads to a significant delay in processing because of several factors we have been talking about here many times: the ageing of the population, demographic and social changes, the progressive increase in the number of benefits that are being made in the various socio-economic areas addressed to people with disabilities — of which we congratulate — and the progressive increase in the number of requests to review the degree of disability arising from the previous causes. This, which is no longer a complication in the case of reducing times, means that they are doing things relatively well, because the Social Policy Council is dedicating a large part of its budget. And on disability issues, we're getting more inclusive policies and benefits, so people who didn't demand the degree of disability before, because often it wasn't worth much, today it does. And, once again, we are pleased that it is. Since 2011, where the pending assessment files have been reduced by 23.78%, the German Government has implemented improvements to reduce processing times with the objective of meeting the deadlines; measures such as access to the electronic medical history of applicants by EVO physicians, as well as implementation so that these doctors can access Ianus or reinforce through Sergas professionals and approval of the service portfolio. These new measures, which began to be implemented in 2017, are followed by those implemented in recent years: the plan and the EVO management and reinforcement system in Santiago, Pontevedra and Vigo in 2015 and 2016; the redistribution of the attention geographic areas of the sections of Santiago de Ferrol; and the reassignment of the municipalities of each area with the objective of referring them to the nearest section in order to pay attention to their management capacity; and in order to avoid unnecessary displacements to the people who request these disability assessments. As well as measures to simplify the administrative procedure, which, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, is a very complicated process that prolongs time, bureaucratically speaking without need. But today there is still a recognition pending bag and evaluation is not achieved within the specified time limit. In fact, the Social Policy Adviser two months ago — in the month of February — apologized for statements made in February for the delays in the assessment of the files. So what we want from the People's Group is that this situation is solved and that it is done quickly to assess the degree of disability. And since the adapted improvements still persist in the waiting lists, that's why we present the following amendment we hope you will count on your support: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to increase the number of jobs of the disability assessment teams of our autonomous community with the aim of eliminating the waiting list before the end of 2018, both in applications and in reviews of disability assessments." We hope you count on your support. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. On the side of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Monserrat Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u187	Good afternoon. I also want to begin by greeting the representatives of the entities that accompany us here today in Parliament. Because, of course, the subject we are dealing with -- not because it's a subject we've been dealing with on more occasions -- is always a matter that concerns us. And they worry about us because there are many people who, from the non-solution of it, suffer the consequences. I must begin by saying that I am sorry, Madam, that in her speech she made a lot of use of the excuse — the excuse of the poor payer —. And it seems good to us that the Social Policy Advisor apologizes, excuses are fine, but it's much better to put means and solve problems; that would, of course, be much better. And we know there's a problem, which we don't know, of course, is the solution that's putting the board and the board on the table. And I'm sorry that you say here today that the Council is doing well; when there are more than 17,000 people on the waiting list and there are people who have been waiting for almost three years for an assessment, that you think this is doing things right since the Council... The truth is, I think I should review the concepts, I say it frankly. Because the reality is that people need that assessment of their degree of disability, that degree recognition for a lot of things. And it doesn't mean it's too late to access a lot of questions, because it's all very bureaucratic. And they need to have certain social benefits, which may be improved in the economic sphere of the family unit or in the individual sphere, in access to training or facilities for access to a new job. It takes you not to have the risk of social exclusion from a situation that prevents you from developing work or life normally. And many times it means losing your job while you don't get that recognition, or not having a share in normal life -- issues like having to park your vehicle or for public transport. Well, questions that for a normal person may seem insignificant but for people who need them are a world, and having it or not means a lot of things. And, of course, we regret that it is not really taken as a priority. As has been well said, since 2002 there have been no meetings for disability teams. And we're talking about it's not a novelty, we're talking about almost sixteen years, and that, of course, we have an aging population, that there's more and more difficulties, and that that requires more demand and more files. But it's not a novelty, it's not something that just emerged, it's not something that suddenly falls and that we find ourselves in an extraordinary situation; it's something that you see coming and that you need to take action. And you put on the table a subject that got out of the sleeve, that deal with Sergas, who just got worth it a while ago and we don't know if they made that assessment. In addition to that situation which, of course, we consider that illegality, that convention, because we do not know how it worked and what the result is. And they're going to blow them up and we have to be urging them to take solutions. With which, of course, the feeling, not only that we have here the BNG, but really the people who are in that situation -- and I suppose the entities that are here today in the gallery -- is that they are not taking seriously the situation that people live in, and that means a drama for the people who live there. Because not having that rating means not being able to start with the next gear, which is asking for the other questions. So I don't know if the initiative party is going to accept the amendment they propose, but if you accept that it is before the end of this year it will mean that you will take it seriously. Because, of course, people in this situation need not be playing with that drama situation. And what's obvious is that with fewer resources and more requests there's only one solution, which is more personal and more equipment. Of course, what they did was a team reinforcement right where there were fewer waiting lists. And that's called... it has a name, because where there are more waiting lists, which is the province of Pontevedra, it's just where they didn't strengthen. They curiously reinforced Ferrol — it's the chance that the advisor is from Ferrol — they reinforced Ferrol and Santiago, where there were fewer waiting lists. That has a name, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it has a name.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u188	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u189	And I hope that the will to solve things doesn't go through doing things as if they're doing things and that really means thinking about people who are suffering the consequences of how you do things. We will support the Socialist Party's initiative with or without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Noela Blanco. Excuse me, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor on the part of the Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u191	Thank you, President. Greeting first the collectives who accompany us. In Marea, too, last year, it brought a NLP on the same issue and we went back — again like the whole opposition — to register it, because it is far from improving the situation, because we continue to do so. It is necessary, still necessary, to increase jobs in a stable way on disability assessment teams to end that intolerable waiting list that does not comply with the regulations, both in the grade review and in the assessment of new degrees of disability. Because despite the fact that Junta assured us that they were going to reduce waiting times and comply with the law — it is ultimately about complying with the law — the reality is that the collapse of the valuation files continues, as has already been pointed out here, especially in Pontevedra province, where three years are behind schedule. The assessment and guidance teams for disability are multidisciplinary teams, this is very important; they are multidisciplinary teams, and all professionals of them need stability. And its function, we also want to remember, goes beyond valuing that question, valuing the degree of disability, because in theory they also have guidance functions for empowerment, for rehabilitation, and measures designed to favour people with disabilities. What's going on? That with the level of insufficient personnel that they have to devote to the minimum, to get these files forward, and yet it's not enough. As a patch, as already stated here, Junta proposed a collaboration agreement with Sergas doctors for valuation, for the alleged axillization of these files. First, this collaboration agreement for the reinforcement of these teams with extra hours of professionals from Sergas was done without counting on social policy unions, it was made to the dark, the opposition parties themselves, as Mrs Blanco also said, we asked for this agreement and we were handed over late, through this Article 9, which is so often breached, Article 9 of the Parliament's regulation that allows us to request documentation, but it is worth so many times that we do not know whether it has its role. As I said, the alleged axillization of the files, because it is necessary to advance this medical assessment if the overall structure continues to collapse, because the problem is structural, it is necessary to structurally strengthen those equipment, and also because — as has already been exposed here — Sergas' staff already suffer from saturation. The Social Policy Council now admits that EVO staff are not sufficient to resolve applications within a reasonable period of time. We welcome your admission, but we have already brought this question here last year and voted against it. And this is normal, it's normal for the staff to be saturated because they've amortized squares, and besides, as has already been said, they don't cover the casualties. It's a situation that was hoped for. In a response to In Marea last September, when we also proposed here in the plenary of the same LNP, the Board recognized the progressive increase in requests for assessment and review of the degree of disability that existed, but no effective measures were taken to reduce waiting lists. He told us, "The improvement actions continue to be implemented to reduce processing times with the aim of meeting the deadlines set in the reference legislation." We still don't answer this question. Delays in Pontevedra reach two years. Even a person, as we know from the press, has been transferred that obtaining the disability certificate to his father, who is eighty-three years old, may take up to three years. We're talking about people of very advanced age who would already be entitled to tax exemptions or parking lots and who can't exercise it. What is also serious in the situations of people who might have access to public employment and because they do not have this certificate, they cannot access it. The delay, in addition, in the resolution of these dossiers also adversely affects, we have already pointed out, in the saturation of already — the result of redundancy — saturated municipal social services, which contribute to the realization of these procedures and advise people who consider that they may be entitled to exemptions or to the various rights granted by this certificate, and this delay also collapses the municipal social services. In fact, we brought here these proposals at the instance of the Social Services of the Ribadumia Council, which that same month — which was the month I don't know whether June or July — were seeing him being evaluated for the degree with more than two and a half years' delay. A little further progress has been made in the province of Pontevedra. So we consider it positive that the PP recognises that it needs to increase these equipments and, so we see, what is a difference in temporal gradation, but we hope it's only a difference in the PSOE PNL, which proposes six months, and the amendment of the PP proposes at the end of the year. Let's hope that that's all, and let's not come here next year with the same GNP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Now if you have the floor by the author group of the non-law proposition to Mrs. Noela Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u193	Thank you very much, President. The first thing I want to do is thank you for the support of the opposition groups, which we've had -- I repeat -- a year ago, and thank you for this -- what seems like a kind of people's positional change, and I say it seems because listening to you intervention is very similar to that of a year ago, but seeing your amendment the truth is that it has absolutely nothing to do with it. You voted against last year without presenting any kind of amendment, we fell — and I remember it perfectly — a cry to the important opposition that day because if we were exaggerating, because if it wasn't the reality... so I think that, in addition to the social policy advisor's apology — that we value positively — it would be good for the People's Group to apologize also to the opposition groups, because there are 17,000 dossiers — I repeat — pending evaluation in the Social Policy Council, and that, unfortunately, is what comes to give us reason to the PSdEG when we denounce this issue. We say it because, apart from that, we explain something that I think is easy to understand, Mrs Vázquez Verao said clearly: they are multidisciplinary teams, which means that even if the medical part is resolved, the social part is going to accumulate, and we say it at that time too. It's not the same as a Sergas doctor from the evaluation teams, and so -- and I set the same example that I put that day -- as a biologist who's a zoologist and another who's a botanist. You wouldn't choose an animal expert to run a botanist. Well, here it happens exactly the same, they're doctors who specialize in these assessment teams. There's no bag, as you said, what there is is a tow of files, that's what there is right now. With very serious situations, with their responsibility behind them, because in Pontevedra there are delays of more than three years; but more than a year ago in serious situations, in people over seventy years old, in people who are receiving non-contributory pensions, in children and children, and, Madam, in people with terminal cancer. This is happening right now in that delegation, and why? By a whim and by an electionist decision, which was to transfer that assessment team to Ferrol — oh, by chance! — where the Social Policy Advisor will surely be a candidate to the mayor, and not put it in Pontevedra, who had been asking for workers and workers since 2016. [[Applause]] We are going to try to reach an agreement, to a transaction, it is true that we consider it important, we thank — as I said — the support of the opposition groups and this shift in position, which sometimes seems — and I mean so too — for the commitment and constancy that we are putting on from the opposition groups, but also from the PSdEG in the field of social policy, because sometimes they have their reward and give their fruits. We hope these fruits don't give birth to rot, and explain it to me. Let's hope that this initiative that we approve here today is not wet paper, that they meet this issue, because we're going to be vigilant. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the quality of life of many people is at stake and depends that the German Government is starting to do what it hasn't done so far. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, on the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the title of acquisition of the palace of Meirás by Francisco Franco
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u195	This motion for a non-law is amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and a self-amendment by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of his Ánxeles Cuña Bóveda and Mr Antón Sánchez García, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of the House, submits to this table the following amendment to this proposal: Amendment.The resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1)By means of a coordinated action between the administrations of the State, the Deputation of the Crown and the Council of Sada to exercise, participate or coadjugate in appropriate legal actions, for the incorporation of the Peace of the Middle East into the Public Heritage.2) It empowers the Commission of Experts for the Return of Peace of Meirás, created for the purpose of studying the legal ways to such a return, of the necessary means, material and human resources, necessary to develop its actions in the best possible way, so that it can present its dictatorship, as soon as possible:]] The incorporation of the State Advocate into the Committee of Experts on the Return of the Peace of Meirás, as well as the Joint Pro-Devolution, for the purposes of the study and coming from the appropriate administrative and judicial actions to be undertaken for the purposes of the incorporation of the Peace of Meirás into the Public Heritage. (b) As a result of the legal conclusions of the reports issued within the Commission and the Joint Committee, in view of the existing documentary evidence, and in accordance with the previously identified coordinated legal strategy between the various administrations (state, autonomous and local), initiate the file of possession of the Peace of Meirás and the prosecution of the judicial proceedings. In the event of considering that the property of the Peace of Meirás was public, before it was granted the public deed of sale dated 24/5/1941, for the purpose of annulling or extinguishing the title of property detained by the heir family of the dictator Franco (in that case, even the seller could not have transmitted what was no longer his, but publicly); or, in the event of considering that the real payer of the price and buyer was not the Franco dictator, for the effect of modifying the title in which it affects the buyer to whom the domain of the seller was transmitted. And with the object of its reversal and incorporation into the Public Heritage and its subsequent agreed destination the use of public appropriations."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u196	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u197	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We bring back the theme of the palace of Meirás because we consider the situation urgent. And we say this because the palace of Meirás is for sale, and we say this because it is necessary to remember it, because it is necessary to be cautious, as already said, but we must move forward without pause. It's paid, the people paid under extortion, we all know. There's enough documentation to support this statement, we know that there was a covered donation, that there was an illegitimate transaction, that there was a simulated contract, which is one of the central issues of this topic. The sale not only announces it a real estate agency cantabre, the sale is already on several portals on international websites. So we think this needs a quick answer. Of course, nothing like this has happened in any country. We will defend that in addition to notaries, eleven people who offer us quite tranquility, who are trained people, and that there is also a previous legal document of great value and that we believe that they will love, there are many reasons to have hope and many reasons to think that there is unity. There's a historic achievement of unanimity. But finally, we must remember that this month of March, exactly 100 years and 12 days ago, 28 March of the last century, that day was handed over to Franco this "accasallo" for a remarkable commission. It was said: "On March 28 of our second triumphal year"—di or document— "the city and province of La Coruña made the offering-donation of the towers of Meirás to the founder of the new empire, head of the state, the most general of the armies and caudillo of Spain, Francisco Franco Bahamunde." That morning also in Santiago's cathedral, the archbishop gave him the sword of God. I mean, one day it's a good day for Franco, which says a particular day. We don't know what would be the sword of God, as Rivas says, not our fellow deputy Rivas, but the writer, we don't know, but the peace is there for sale. Whoever paid it was the people with money obtained by payrolls, contributions, by that system of forced volunteers, by saying it very gently, i.e., ex-tor-tor-sion. Under the rhetoric of the empire the reality was that... in the end, the offering that was to be used for the Francos had the ability to shortcut everything, even after death, so that in 1978, 40 years ago, our emeritus king, Juan Carlos I of Spain, granted the daughter of the most general, the great dictator, the title of lordship of Meirás. Well, this is an outrage in every rule, we know who we think there must be a democratic historical memory; there are people who deny it; there are people who doubt that it exists, but of course—there may be people who deny that there is a democratic historical memory— or it's someone who is disenchanted, amnesiasic, amnesiasic, I don't know, but I suppose everyone will agree that there are historical shames. As the same author would also say, Abraham would tell Isaac: "Bible shames, my son," Biblical shame. I'm talking about Abraham and I'm also talking about Isaac, who, as you know or know, were in the palace of Meirades and also have to go back to town. By saying this and making a bridge with previous interventions, we feel the urgent need, because this situation does not allow delay or delay. I believe that unanimity is a social success and a success of all the collectives that are urging us; it is also a success of the Crown Parliament; it is also a success of Sada's comrades and colleagues; it is a success for all political groups if we are able to move forward with this issue. In the previous plenary session it was said that it had to be a collective goal of the country. Well, it's probably one of the first times I agree with the PP representative, Maria. It's just that you can't be wrong, it's true, you can't be wrong. I think, apart from the document, that we've already said and defended that it should socialize, when I made reference to a simulated contract, it seems to be one of the avenues of convergence that the team of experts themselves sees as feasible to link and compile this documentation. But we think it's going very slow, that it can't be dilated, that last month's 1st, March 1st, the Feijóo himself said that in a few days we would have conclusions; we're in April. It seems that there are important issues and that sometimes we talk not so much about reversing and becoming a public domain, but there's unanimity for all of us and for all of us that this has to happen to be a public heritage. They're the legal and civil routes. We've got to search the archives, it's been a while. But, please, be ordered, be clarified and that, if complexity lies in the dispersion of communication, it reinforces. That's why we — and there I really have to apologize — made a self-amendment. Really, when this document was presented, it was before certain things happened, so it's a justification, but we'll try to avoid later times. I say this because of a comment you have made to me, I think, the Member of the Socialist Party of Galicia. We'll try to avoid it, but I explain why. In the amendment we maintain the idea, the necessity, which, in fact, is already being given, of coordinated action between autonomous, provincial, local and state administrations, between the Parliament, the Council, and which is coadjugated very jointly to be public heritage. The second is that we must provide more resources and means, because we believe that this committee of experts, consisting of eleven prestigious people, belongs to the three universities, which are notaries, registries and historians. We believe it would be very convenient, very favourable, because we also share the idea that the State can exercise timely legal actions to make it public domain. We therefore believe that it is an absolutely sensible measure which, between being a part of this commission, is also the state's lawyer. It seems absolutely consistent. Then, also speaking to the Members and Members of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, there is a desire to reach agreements. There is an amendment to the second point that we propose, which is to urge the State to incorporate Counsel, as we have just said. At the second point, we would withdraw what we set out to leave strictly within the terms adopted unanimously in the Parliament of the Crown, including the People's Party, which says: "In view of the approved agreement"—and I apologize for the variations, I did not have an opportunity to speak to the representative of the People's Party, I hope to have it from today to tomorrow, if it seems relevant— "unanimously by the plenary of the Crown, to request the State to put in place all the administrative and judicial actions appropriate to achieve its ownorious and voluntary recovery for the public heritage of the court of Meirás." Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u199	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. In this story was the Franco family enjoying their summers in Meirás until in 2007 they started to twist things to him with the limitations of the BIC, which we already know the story they had. And, above all, they tortured him more since 2017, in which there was a very relevant fact, which was an absolutely powerful social and institutional response to the provocations of the Franco family and also of the foundation that bears its name, — you have to say — with the permission and approval of the governments of the People's Party, which came to finance with EUR 53,713 in the years 2011-2012 the Franco family to open the BIC, which is absolutely unheard of. This powerful response from society and politics, to our understanding, marked the beginning of a path that we understand is irreversible, a path that will be long, that will be complex, but that will inevitably get the public property of this good that has been stolen. We're sure it's going to be like this, that we're going to get it, that we're going to win traps, including all those that put the People's Party, because taller towers fell than the Meirades towers. You better, at this point, it's much more than a palace, it's much more than a tower, it's a symbol, a symbol of collective dignity, also of the image of Galicia in front of the world. It's also a symbol for democracy, because one of the fundamental issues of this whole process is that this battle is going to serve, it has to be used to clean up, to clean up the black pits of the transition, the septic ditches of the system, the 78 regime. And there are those who intend to perfume the black pits of the transition, and the garbage, the excrement, the shit can't perfume. Fascism cannot be perfumed, fascism must be thrown into the garbage dump of history. Do you think there's something wrong with what I said? [[Murmurs.]] Oh, okay! So it's about these initiatives to put an end to that island of impunity and shame, which is the current situation of the palace, legalization for forty-two years of theft, the police and corruption, with all the complications that have occurred in this situation. It's also about ending up with the privileges and benefits that still keep the Franco family, including noble titles granted by King Juan Carlos I of Borbon, that many things had to thank his predecessor for granting these titles to the Franco family five days after the dictator's death. That change in the summer of last year forced the People's Party to change the chip a little bit, at least in appearance, to appear that he really wanted to do something to end this situation, and above all what he put the Franco family into defense. They're telling us a story that he feels persecuted and harassed here, that we don't consider him thankful; for, indeed, we don't regard him as grateful; they go from victims, and victims besides the escape; what happens is that it's a escape where they want to go making box with the spoils of war and the dictatorship with that advertised sale of the palace. For this reason, it is very important for us to act with agility, to act with rigour and to act with consistency, which we do not see being doing until the moment in Galicia, but that if we are doing — and to the proofs we refer ourselves to — the Deputy of the Crown, who at this time has drawn up a very serious and rigorous historical and legal report that has been presented to all groups of this Parliament and that has set up, in addition, a historic agreement, a unanimous agreement of the Corporation, of the Provincial Parliament, of which the People's Party has also participated, and that we understand that it has to be the real starting point for the work that we have to do from now on. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document]] And that's why we insist once again that the agreement of the Crown Parliament is absolutely the main issue; the other issues are accessories. In a spirit, for the sake of consensus agreement, we will come to this transaction, to this deal with the Tide and the Socialist Party, but by putting the main focus and attention on this issue. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what we believe is that the current situation is an anomaly, it is incompatible with democracy, and that it is primarily the responsibility of the People's Party, the Government of the Union and the Government of the State, to end this infamy definitely. It's a first step with that accord of the Crown Deputy. Let us hope that they will be able to rectify previous agreements today and support what they have already supported in the Coruña Parliamentary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u200	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We're talking again about Meirás, a democratic anomaly where there are them, a palace in the village, a market with the people's spolius, which remains in the hands of a dictator's family, a democratic anomaly. But it is also an unacceptable democratic anomaly to maintain the noble title of the Duke of Franco in the Franco family. And it is also an absolute democratic anomaly to continue to declare legal, to maintain as legal a foundation, the Francisco Franco Foundation, which exalts the figure of a dictator and a murderer and incites hatred. In both elements, cancel Franco's duchy and declare the Francisco Franco Foundation illegal, our party is working to illegalize them in Madrid. I wish these two themes, among many others, but these two, the duchy of Franco and the Francisco Franco Foundation, had been I think as well referred and directed as it could be to break that democratic anomaly that of the palace of Meirás. Certainly, I take this occasion and that we are talking about the Franco Foundation to ask the People's Party that, please! please!, for democratic shame, for democratic health, do not allow Franco to be exalting himself in the palace of Meirás, as he has been or is going through with absolutely unacceptable posters and posters of exaltation of a dictator and in addition to insult of Franco's reprisals in the chapel of the palace of Meirás. There they were, and that deserves an absolutely strong response, from the People's Party. [[Applause]] Because it can't be acceptable for such a situation. And he said: they are all democratic anomalies, of course neither in Italy nor in Germany, something like this would be absolutely unthinkable. But we have it — let's say — a little incarcerated, and I say it because it exists — and I repeat: I have said it here — a report from the Committee on the Return of Peace — that I am very sorry that I never have time, because I am always in the answer, to explain exactly what it is, that it is a very powerful report, from the point of view of Professors Emilio Grandio and Xavier Ferreira, which leaves an open but very clear door, to request that the peace of Meirás go to the public heritage, which is where it was to be and that Franco tried to avoid through a simulated purchase, because the National Heritage Act of 1940 would clearly make the palace a public heritage asset and to avoid it made that simulated purchase. We got a way out there. So here are two key elements. One, ask the People's Party, especially the Galician Union, which, please, accelerates the dictates of the expert council that are in progress. This has to be fast, fast, we can't go on forever to have that dictation. So, please do your best to get us to have that dictation at once, which I'm sure will be in the same direction as that of the Joint Pro Return of Peace. So at this point, the People's Party, what it could do, is to vote in favour of one that was our amendment, as Mrs Cuña knows, of voting a resolution, a motion already voted in the Parliamentary of the Crown by all groups, including the People's Party. That would be at least a sign that the People's Party doesn't change from face to face, not just change words, not just change to get out of step, a sign that changes — say — with a certain sincerity. I therefore believe that they should vote in favour of this motion voted unanimously in the Council. And what I was saying to you -- and I want to explain it publicly because I've already talked to Mrs Cuña -- that I don't think politically we can have, because it's the second time that we've been through, to get here with a non-law proposition about Meirás' palace but then change the whole resolution, and you know Mrs Cuña that it prevents us from making the amendments. But we agree, of course, to come up with that transaction that she mentioned, and — I insist — also make a call to see if we can once and for all be faced with this democratic anomaly which is absolutely impossible to endure anymore. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Antón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u203	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, like all the representatives who have spoken in this gallery at this last session of this House, we had the opportunity to debate a non-law proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block very similar to that presented today in Marea. And the truth is, after seeing all the amendments, even your self-amendment, ladies and gentlemen of En Marea, we have no doubt that we are in front of a déja vu, because they really return us to the full three weeks ago. And the People's Group has already expressed its opinion, and we try to be consistent, in politics we try to be consistent. And there's nothing new about this question that makes us, in principle, change our criteria. And we try to be respectful and consistent with the people of Greece, and that's why we approve in this House the creation of a commission of experts. We put it into action, incorporating prestigious specialists in various fields, with the clear intention of analyzing and deepening the historical, economic, legal and heritage aspects of this case. And while you -- and I'm sorry to say -- Mrs. Cuña and Mr. Bará also maintain a purely political posture. His only goal is not to be the People's Party to deal with the recovery of Meirás' palace. I know it hurts, but the People's Party is doing everything possible to return the peace of Meirás to the public heritage. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Burgo, in this race you're here in Tide and Block is getting a little undisturbed. I already invite you to speak again in the next plenary session of the palace of Meirás. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, Mrs. Cuña, otherwise I don't understand that they self-immend themselves in writing, if they self-immend in voice, and so they leave us a little undeployed, because now it turns out that their explanatory statement of the non-law put forward proposal and the resolution text has nothing to do with it. Already the exposition of motives of the first part was contradictory, because, at the time, you said you had to wait for what the joints and tables said, but also began to act quickly in a sense, and now it's still a little more tangled up. We then said and said now that it is necessary for the expert committee to carry out its work without pressure, as it is doing, in its time, freely, without guidelines and with all means at its disposal. I told you, Mrs Cuña: we have no complaint that the expert committee needs more than the means at its disposal. She's absolutely calm, which, if it were not, would also give her the means she needed. And we share the objective you say in the proposal, which is to set up these channels that allow the public to recover, as I said before, from the palace of Meirás, without costing them a euro to the heritage of the Greek people. And, therefore, with regard to the work of the committee of experts, prudently to know the results of them. You supported your proposal in the announcement of the possible sale of the palace of Meirades, in all the gates where the palace of Meirades is already in. But you know — and so did the chairman of the expert committee, Mr Núñez Seijas — that, as a BIC, is protected by the Heritage Act, is protected by Article 49 of the Galician Heritage Act. Mrs. Cuña, if you really think it's so urgent to act, at this point you have an easy way: you do it through the Town Hall of Sada or the Crown Deputy. In the Town Hall you rule with the support of the opposition groups here present, in the Deputation all opposition groups here have the majority. In my opinion, their positions are of a capital political hypocrisy, because they ask the Galician Council to act in accordance with the conclusions of the report requested by the Crown Deputy, but you, who rule in Sada and have most of them in the Deputy, do not. It's always the same: the double measuring rod; they ask others what you don't do. And if you are so sure of the conclusions of the report of the Crown Member and that it is the right way, it promotes an initiative in the Deputy; it promotes it, which acts in the judicial capacity of the Council. No administration would be more legitimized to do so; Mr Ferreira's and Mr Grand's report says that it was the Administration who acted most actively for this sale. This People's Group will await the conclusions of the report of the Committee of Experts, which will bring to this House, awaiting the unbroken support of its lords. And it'll be perfect that there was a confluence in reports, legal and procedural strategies, and then we'll make the corresponding decisions. And we expect from you the same loyalty that we, the People's Party, had in the Crown Deputy. And we can't actually go wrong and we can't take a path that leads to failure. And I therefore insist that we be careful and patient, the patience needed to complete the work of the expert committee. And don't worry, that if we succeed, it will be the collective success of all Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u205	First, thank you for the coherence, the sincerity, the commitment of the opposition groups. And look, Mrs. Maria Antón Vilasánchez, when you talk about dja vu, that's a perception that I think is a bit deformed. There's something new, it's something that hasn't been dealt with, it's not considered, and that's a contribution -- we suppose -- that's good for this to go forward, that's the incorporation of State Law, because from Sada and En Marea we believe that the state has to play a decisive role; this was not in previous proposals. So, before you insult, please, do you know where the word "sincerity" comes from? In Greek times the famous people had many busts and their political opponents tended to break his nose, for example. So they put wax on them and supposedly the real thing was what was without wax, and from there, "sincere." You can accuse me of a lot of things, but be careful, please, because I try to be respectful, and be hypocritical to a person has to be very argumentative and very substantiated. Meiras' palace is now for sale. Of course, when we said, on the website Mikeli Luxury Real Estate, "with a style of spacious mansion in the countryside of quiet and noble Europe", it is announced with the claim of "single property for sale in Sada". Price, we know it, it's the same thing: 8 million euros; one million euros for each clean and another for expenses, right, great. I mean, they stole and now they're trying to sell it. Then the occupation is also announced, an area of 66,700 meters. Well, it was Emilia Pardo Bazán's house. Last year we had the opportunity to go and after a thousand traps we went all over the Committee on Culture, some in love with knowing the tower of the fire, some in love, and others thinking of something else — I suppose —. What attracted us very much to this fascinating, charming woman is that she opened her way without asking permission in the way of writing and living and broke barriers. Well, this has turned out to be a black, dark story. They were there throughout the summer Councils of Ministers and some judgments were not grateful. Of course it's an unbearable anomaly, of course we have a total coincidence with the Franco Foundation, and you're really consistent, vote the same thing in the Crown Deputies and here, and intervene the Franco Foundation, please, because it's proven that it's in an illegal territory. It's infamous that today you're trying to put an actor in jail who's creating a play and who's turning with her and who's trying to imprison himself for being doing an artistic job, like it or not. And here's silence, convolence, true hypocrisy and a representative of the Francisco Franco Foundation was allowed to be apologizing to fascism in the middle of the 21st century. Are you Democrats, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and eight other Members, on the establishment by the Galician Council of measures to strengthen the International Committee of Experts on the Way of Santiago, as well as the development of a collaboration programme with the Jacobean Studies Centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u207	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u208	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u209	Thank you, President. Let me make a brief historical summary of the existence of the Santiago Road Committee of Experts to contextualize this non-law proposal. As we all know, the Committee of Experts is a body of collaboration and advice of the Galician Union on the various issues affecting the Santiago Way. This committee was set up in 1992 as one of the measures of Plan Xacobeo 1993, which was the seed of Xacobeo and the indispensable instrument for revitalizing and valuing the Way of Santiago. The success of Xacobeo 1993 was the success of the Way of Santiago and Galicia, which had as colophon the declaration of the Way of Santiago as the heritage of humanity. The autonomous administration of the time, aware of the potential of the Way and of the new status that was supposed to be the heritage of mankind, felt the foundations of work and consolidation and management. Thus, in 1994, by decree of the Galician Union, the Committee of Experts of the Way of Santiago was formally established. The decree speaks of three fundamental functions of the committee: the analysis and investigation of topics directly related to the Way of Santiago, the promotion of publications on Jacobic themes and the organization of newspapers, congresses, seminars and symposiums in order to study and promote the Way of Santiago internationally. The international vocation of this committee is reflected in the configuration of these first appointments, where the nationalities of the main countries with the Jacobean vocation are present, seeking a balance between them. Thus, the committee sets out with two representatives for Spain, France, Germany and one for Italy, the United Kingdom and Portugal. All members of the committee had already gone through their careers in favor of the Santiago Way, as scholars, researchers, as promoters of promotional activities, even as promoters of pilgrims' shelters or promoters of Jacobean study centers in such important cities as Paris or Perugia. Some of the members of the First Committee of Experts participate in events of singular importance, such as the Santiago Road exhibition in Brussels, to represent Spain on the occasion of our entry into the European Union. Or wise in the declaration of the Way of Santiago as the first European Cultural Itinerary on the Council of Europe. His baggage, knowledge and international prestige have always been at the service of Santiago's Way, as are members today. If we take a brief look at the activities that this committee has carried out in these nearly 25 years of existence, we would have to mention more than ten international congresses that it has promoted as a scientific committee, organizer and coordinator of pponents and their acts, which are essential benchmarks in the studies of the Way of Santiago; the exhibitions in which they participated; the study days they have promoted or in which the most diverse countries in the world have participated; while not forgetting their legacy to the Jacobean Library, among which we can highlight the Latin transcription of the Calixtino Code carried out in 1999, as a renewal of the work carried out in 1944. This non-law proposal aims to boost the content of the Santiago Way's own Master Plan, where the strategic line of coordination and administrative organization already sets out the objective of strengthening the Santiago Way Committee of Experts, which sets out a series of actions to be promoted. This proposal, to our understanding, is very appropriate right now for two questions. On the one hand, because this year we celebrate precisely 25 years of the declaration of the Way of Santiago as a World Heritage Site, and next year we will celebrate 25 years of the creation of this Committee of Experts of the Way of Santiago. Both questions are related and should not go unnoticed. And, on the other hand, because the entire participatory and programmatic structure of Xacobeo 2021 is being initiated, to which the Committee of Experts can no doubt draw closer to its experience and knowledge. The International Committee of Experts was renewing as its members were no longer among us. Also serve this proposal to pay tribute to figures such as Manuel Díaz and Díaz, professor of the University of Santiago, considered one of the world's best medievalists, master of a whole generation of historians and philologists like Fernando López Alsina, today a member of this committee. Vicente Almazán, one of the leading experts in Xacobea culture research in northern Europe, particularly in Scandinavian countries. Brian Tate, a prominent British Jacobite Hispanicist of late vocation, an expert in maritime pilgrimages, who replaced Professor Derek Lomas, who had been only one year as a member of the committee, and who was also replaced, in turn, by Simon Barton, who had just died. Humberto Baquero Moreno, specialist in Medieval History and relations between Spain and Portugal. He left us a wide-ranging historical work that highlights the pilgrimages from Portugal to Compostela. Robert Plötz, who, from the museum he was leading in Lower Rhineland, was an tireless researcher, pilgrim and animator of the associative movement of the Way of Santiago, gold medal of the City of Santiago and silver medal of Galicia. René de La Coste-Messéliere, curator of French national archives and member of a group of Spanish French intellectuals, member of the French Association of Friends of the Way of Santiago since 1962, when we still didn't even think about the Way of Santiago, and founded the Centre for Compostelan Studies in Paris in 1970. These names will remain forever in the history of the Way of Santiago as researchers and promoters of the Xacobea Route in the last decades of the 20th century and at the dawn of the 21st century. Today there are only two people left from that committee who was born in 1994 and now there are two vacant squares, so it is necessary to proceed to their relief. This set should be used as an opportunity to continue to promote the international vocation of the committee and the multinational balance. Incorporating new researchers from European countries that allow the Way of Santiago to remain rooted in the centres of knowledge of Europe, or even other latitudes that are being revealed as very interesting for the Way. It must be a path — to our understanding — to explore by the autonomous administration. The research and knowledge of the Santiago Way from an academic and scientific point of view must continue to be a priority. To deepen knowledge of the Way is to deepen in our idiosyncrasy, in the relationships between the peoples of Europe and the world at every moment of history, of thought, of literary currents, of architecture, at last, of many other things that are around the Way. And linking Galicia to any part of the world through the Way of Santiago is a sort of opportunity in many more fields than purely cultural and we must be able to take advantage of. In this task we can have at our side prescriptors, such important personalities and already recognized prestige that we must be able to support their work and make their figure profitable to set up actions that allow us to get to know Galicia in its areas of influence. And the same is true of the study centers linked to the film and the Jacobean culture. Relations and synergies between the members of the Committee of Experts of the Way of Santiago and the Jacobean study centres are evident. The president of the center of Perugia is currently a member of the Committee of Experts, and the centre of Paris is still very small. It was also the responsibility of a person who is now part of the Committee of Experts. These centres of knowledge and projection of Jacob's cult and culture are a very important point of launch for further progress in the research, study and dissemination of the Way of Santiago. They are centers of relationship and approach to the Jacobic world from different perspectives and experiences, but fundamental to having a meeting place where to share common interests around the Way; where to form and learn about past and present vicissitudes of the Jacobean route. The centers also maintain a close, sometimes causal relationship with the associations of friends of the Way of Santiago, becoming their reference points. In our consideration, the commendable work of the Jacobean study centres also deserves special attention from the Government of Greece, which allows you to develop your activities and programs in the best possible conditions, since by helping the Jacobean study centers we are contributing to the expansion of the Santiago Way. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we call for your support for this non-law proposal with the aim of requesting from the Greek Government the impetus and support of the International Committee of Experts on the Way of Santiago and the Jacobean study centres that are developing their activities all over the world. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u211	Thank you. Good afternoon. In the previous debate, Mrs Anton said that the opposition's initiatives on Meirás were always political postureum. Well, I don't know how to qualify the People's Party's ongoing efforts on the Xacobeo, in which they just tell the Galician Union themselves to do what the Union is doing or is already doing, or has already announced what it will do, or is contemplated in the Plan Director himself, as this case is. I know that later, in the reply, I'm going to see that the Bipartite was very bad. And yes, it would be Satan, Mrs. Antony, but you, above the evil ones, are being a little vague about this matter. Because, one of two, or there's nothing new going on in the Master Plan of Santiago de Compostela Road, or you think that Mrs Nava Castro and that Mr. Conde are not doing their job and they don't like it... Mrs. Romero, if you want to intervene in the debate, tell her... yes, but it's a little disturbing... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u212	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u213	If you want to intervene in the debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u214	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u215	One of two, I think about this initiative that either you don't like what Mrs Nava Castro and Mr. Conde are doing, or either you want to make a whole amendment — just like you don't like the motions Mr. Agustín Hernández signed in other forums — because you ask for something that literally appears in the Plan Director, and I literally read: point 6, line 1: coordination strategy and administrative organization, priority action plan, strengthening of the International Committee of Experts on the Santiago Way, pages 39 and 40 of the Plan Director. In fact, it is even more concrete about strengthening the role of the International Committee of Experts on the Way of Santiago and others. So you say that you want to strengthen him and, frankly, it looks like a joke and that you want to put them to physical exercise in the hole, or something like that. They also say that you want to strengthen the Jacobean study centers, something that appears literally. Even in the Plan director, they've tried a little more and they're quoting Paris and Perugia, and they're even referring to the creation of new centers. So if you come here with a concrete proposal for the creation of a new Jacobe study center somewhere, we would support it; but, in fact, we are a little surprised, because even in the summary document of the Plan Director — which is 42 pages and not 110 pages, and should give them a little less lazy reading — these issues also appear literally. So, I don't know what to conclude, if the Government has approved a plan not to comply with it, so that you may have put forward initiatives or something, but it seems to us to be a small thing. I would also recommend that it be more concrete, since then the Government of Greece would limit itself to the fact that at the annual congress of Jacob's studies this would already be accomplished. In any case, out of the little political ambition that we see, and which we also indicate when in a constructive spirit we drew close to this initiative on the ARIs of the Way of Santiago, which was also literally taken from Plan RehaVita 2015-2020, or with the initiative of cultural itineraries, or from that card that was simply left on a project and that is not yet a reality and so on. Apart from that, we could come here and make a positive approach — as we have done — to that master plan and some of its weaknesses; how can it be, for example, the question of accessibility or the question of environmental management? But the truth is that it bothers us especially that with the question of the Santiago Way they have a double morale in the People's Party, and it is that much brings campaign initiatives to this Parliament but little to transfer the opposition political groups to information when we demand it. And it turns out that a month and a half ago the BNG requested, both by article 9 and in writing, my companion Rodil, all the documentation concerning the recruitment process for the promotion of the 2021 Jacobean event that costs the public ark more than 3 million euros to the finger. He also asked a question with little answer in this House recently, and a month and a half later we went on without that answer. That is why we amend that we are dealing with these kinds of questions that we are asking for, to see if they are so verified that they have some kind of will that, really, about the issues of the Way of Santiago, we can talk to a little bit of seriousness. I don't know if the Committee's ladies and gentlemen will be invited to this festival, but, of course, in addition to your compliance with the Director Plan, we would like you to know that, if we ask for information on this matter to decide and evaluate whether this is done in the right parameters or not, they will fulfill the obligation they have with this Parliament, since it is seen that the Director Plan does not have a lot of intention to comply with. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco has the floor by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u217	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. There are several entities created by the governments of the People's Party around Xacobeo, among them, the International Committee of Experts on the Way of Santiago, which was born of the need to advise on the scientific and cultural path of the Greek Government in relation to the route of Xacobea. Then they would create the Chair of the Way, where Tourism of Galicia, the universities and Santiago cathedrals were seeking to boost the investigation, teaching and dissemination of Jacob, both at the national and international levels. And finally, recently the Jacobean Academy was created — as you well know, your director is Mr. Palmou's advisor. This entity also aims to promote research, study and dissemination of retirement culture. This is dependent on the Order of the Way of Santiago and the Council of Culture. I mean, three different entities were created to achieve similar goals; that's a duality of book. Only one of them that brings together all the branches of action of the three entities would be sufficient and double skills and knowledge generation would be avoided. Or do they not agree within the People's Party as to how to manage Xacobeo? Because everything points to a conflict in which there are too many entities to do the same work. The scientific committee that follows around the Santiago Road is made up of teachers and researchers, and we believe that the most logical thing would be that they depended on Heritage and not on Tourism, as at present. Depending on Heritage would mean giving you a value that goes beyond commercially and economically productively, although they are important both, and that obviously cannot be abandoned, and they have to allocate sufficient resources to continue to grow and adapt to all types of tourism and tourists. However, depending on the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order makes more sense from the point of view of research, teaching and the scientific field in general. So, honestly, in order to be able to value our heritage, we understand that it should depend on this council, because even if they are topics related to tourism in the Way of Santiago, this committee cannot be at the service of only tourist interests, and among its objectives it must also have the preservation of the vast cultural and scientific heritage that has the route Xacobea. That's why our amendment of addition, which says, "Insulting the Government of Greece to establish an action programme of the International Committee of Experts on the Way of Santiago, led by the Culture Council, as well as providing it with a budget count for these actions." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u218	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs. Ángeles Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Hello again. I'm not an expert on the subject, but even though on paper it may seem that these entities can carry out a mission, in practice I'm actually very suspicious of their work. What doesn't seem to be integrating experts into the road, but what you perceive to be spaces to ensure a position to some people who aren't necessarily prominent in the Way research. It's also true that research is full of people who are affected, and what is needed is that there is much more rigour. On the other hand, I think those academies should be driven above all by the new research. There's a lot of very well-prepared girls and we don't see anything that this is going to do. But the use of the public institutions in Wales for their benefit... the use of the public institutions in Wales for their benefit — I did not lose the line — is something PP always does not surprise; yet last year they created a new chiringuit — yes, chiringuito — the Xacobea Academy, led by this very expert expert on road issues that is, indeed, Jesus Palmou, a new researcher and very expert on the Way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From the point of view of In Marea, public money should be spent on other kinds of issues, such as heritage education, an issue where we are dramatically behind schedule in Galicia. There are thousands of routine assaults on Jacob's heritage: paintings, garbage dumps and other behaviors that are not justified. They are the result of a lack of heritage education, which results in a lack of respect for historical heritage. There is the feeling that the Way of Santiago has an abstract respect, but that soon many walkers or even pilgrims are unable to see that they are making a deterioration of this heritage. What are so many expert committees worth if that information, if it is of real interest, if they are interested in those reports, does it not come from very small areas and it does not apply? What's your point, Mrs. Antonio? There's also massification. You could also talk about massification in the last 100 kilometers of the Road and all its pernicious effects: macrobots, sheds to eat snacks every 200 meters... keeping the last 100 kilometers as a requirement is to maintain unbearable tourist pressure for a good of these characteristics. Focusing on the last steps of so many pilgrims is completely incompatible with a responsible management of a path that is not only culturally good, which is the heritage of humanity. But of course, the argument that 11% of GDP comes from tourism is valid for everything, even to create committees and agencies where to place their attentions and do what they do, of course! It's clear that by 2021 the massification will continue to grow, and all despite the fact that most of the workers, of the technical professionals of the Administration, even of the General Heritage Directorate, are very aware of the problem. But for some politicians in this House, the tourist plan and the number of visitors is more profitable, and being constantly hitting marks with respect to the previous year, even if it's spending 3 million euros on a macro-festival macro-diversified that won't do anything about the Greek cultural ecosystem. When we talk about cultural tourism, we can do it from two points of view, two different looks. One, from the perspective of cultural policy, with principles of protection of value, of the existence of good, of actions to guarantee intrinsic values of cultural goods or manifestations and the preservation of the value of identity that it has for the society that creates them. There's the other side, the other way of looking, which is where you're installed, which is in the market, in tourism policy. All right, more important is the value of use, the possibility of consumption and the contribution to another type of development. We believe that there is a basic premise, that it would be that the management of Santiago's Way was, as has been said, in the Council of Culture. The so-called Galician Tourism Agency can play a key role in dissemination and promotion, but it's not consistent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u221	...that the management of a cultural heritage of humanity increasingly rests on a tourist agency. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u223	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mrs. Presas, I'm not entirely surprised by your attitude, because this House has been listening to the rejection, questioning, more than twenty-five years of the Nationalist Galego Block on the James and the Way of Santiago. It seems a lie that you are so young and that your speech has not evolved in any way in these twenty-five years, despite contrasting that it has been quite a success for the Council of Galicia to bet on the Way of Santiago. [[Applause]] And I'm not just saying that in terms of pilgrims and tourists, economicists, as Mrs Cuña said now, I say so in terms of country. [[Murmurs.]] We're talking in terms of country, we're talking about Galicia's image, we're talking about a generation of jobs, the resurgence of small villages and villages through the way of Santiago, particularly within our community. And of course, Mrs. Presas, as you don't know what to say, ends up making an amendment that has nothing to do with the proposal we put forward. We know that for you, the Way of Santiago and the Jacobean is like a hive, they have to be scratching every day when there's a success. I'm very sorry, but that's the way it is. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Pérez Seco, I understand that it's sometimes difficult to get into these issues if you don't make a bit of a story about it. So it's very good that you're asking the Council of Culture leader for the expert committee, but you have to know that he's a member of a 2015 decree for the Presidency Council. I think it's much better at the Presidency Council than you had at the Bipartite, at the Industry Council. I think we're slightly better there. And besides, you mustn't worry about it because the Santiago Way to the Government of Galician Unity of the People's Party is a cross-sectional project, it's a country project, it's a project that goes through all the councils and each acts in its branch and in its competences. [[Applause]] I welcome this interest that you have for this initiative and even your concern for providing financial support to the committee of experts, but if you really want to do something positive for the Way of Santiago, talk to your parliamentary group in Madrid and support the State's 2018 budgets. In them is the Xacobeo declaration as an exceptional event of public interest, so important tax benefits will be available so that the private initiative will contribute in these three years until 2021 for the sponsorship, for the entrepreneurship, for the promotion of actions in favour of the Santiago Way, and in this context it could also be that the actions of the Committee of Experts were sponsored. Mrs. Cuña, I understand you started saying you weren't an expert, but you continued to be very bold. Because coming to this gallery and making statements about the honorability you've made of the members of the committee of experts and their professional qualifications, it's a very serious dare, in my opinion. You'll have to know that you don't get any economic counterparty, to start with, that's a warning. I invite you to check the website to see the curriculum of the people who are part of the Committee today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u224	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u225	...of Santiago Road Experts and then we'll talk again. Because, Mrs. Cuña, when you talk about creating agencies and naming followers, are you talking about the Bipartite? Or are you talking about the Tides? Are you talking about the governments of the Tides of Santiago, Coruña and Ferrol? I think so, that you're talking about the governments of the Tides of Coruña and Ferrol, because you know that in these governments the cultural fingering is great, very large, almost would say that all the budget that every department of culture has. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. I understand you don't accept the amendments. [[Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. We're still on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government for a plan of compensation in railway matters which includes concrete commitments specifically directed to the interior of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u227	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u228	Thank you, President, and good afternoon again. Three million euros a finger to sponsor music from outside the country that could be invested in this that we're going to propose to them now. Three million euros a finger! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] We're going to talk about an endless story -- one of so many endless stories this country has. An unsuspecting story of political disillusionment, non-compliance, eternal promises and false promises, but above all, a story of aggravating and double discrimination. If the railway in this country, ladies and gentlemen, is pending matter, in the neighborhoods of Lugo and Ourense it is even more so. Lugo and Ourense are the palpable reflection of the consequences of lack of competence, lack of capacity and political decision, a railway design made from foreign interests, absolutely centralist, lack of investment and abandonment. And the consequences are for people who have suffered an obsolete train for decades now, decimononic if we talk about Lugo, with painful connections and frequencies and abusive prices for other cities in the country. I imagine some of your lords saw the train trip we shared with Mrs. Noa Presas and me; a journey of almost five hours to go from Lugo to Santiago de Compostela. A path that, in addition to the cost of transhipment, has a private price and perfectly exemplifies the reality that we live within the country in rail matters. Whether Lugo is in 2018 the only city in the country with no direct connection with Compostela, with the capital of Galicia, should bring out the colors to anyone, and a few more arguments would be needed to give evidence of the scandalous state of the train inside Galicia. But to walk the little more than a hundred kilometers that separate Place from Santiago, the possibilities that Renfe offers are two, two all day: three hours and four minutes passing through the Coruña, with three minutes waiting during the transhipment and 13 euros, or two hours and thirty-eight minutes passing through Ourense, with half an hour waiting on the transhipment and 22,10 euros. It's a little over 100 kilometers, which takes an hour and a half by car. Look what the situation is, and the spook of the situation we live in, which, if we catch the 4 o'clock afternoon train for Ourense, we arrive at Compostela two hours and forty minutes later and we only have one option back, so that we can be in the capital of the country exactly thirty minutes, thirty minutes!, which lasts a coffee. Vigo-La Coruña, 160 kilometers, costs between 15 and 18 euros, and takes train an hour and 20 minutes. Trains Lugo-A Coruña all day long there are six; Lugo-Ourense, three. Monforte has three more to go to Ourense. And that's all. Connections, schedules and frequencies that don't meet the needs of the country, much less of the people who live and work inside Galicia. The situation that reaches the railway connection in Ourense has already been talked about, and much, in this House since the BNG: progressive loss of connections and cut into intermediate lines, reduction of frequencies and schedules and an overcost at the cost of the ticket of more than 60% on the Atlantic axis, being Ourense the province with the lowest wages and pensions in our country. If Ourense keeps a better situation than Lugo's, it's just because the city is a place to go to Madrid. Most trains that stop today in the city of Ourense do because they come or come from the Meseta. Since the BNG we have always defended the train as a fundamental element of social cohesion and territorial vertebration, an efficient, environmentally sustainable means of transport, and a key element that must be understood as central within the framework of a Greek transport system, intermodal and complementary, compatible with people and commodities, which looks at the Meseta, yes, but also Portugal. A train that connects comarcas and raches with a two-speed Galicia that leaves more and more behind the comarcas and the localities in the interior of the country. But we don't have political decision-making capacity about their design, about their management, led us to have a rail system without modernizing, no double-way lines and no electrification in 2018. What we are defending with this initiative today since the BNG is a compensation plan for the German railway system that passes through the transfer to Galicia of competences in the field of internal rail, as already have Euskadi, Catalonia, Valencia or Andalusia; as provided for in the 1981 Autonomy Statute in its Article 27.8 and, most importantly, as agreed unanimously by this House on 22 September 2009. I remind them you were already ruling. Transfer which must be accompanied by the corresponding budgeting, the improvement of frequencies, the modernisation of the lines — mainly in Lugo and Ourense — as well as the actual and effective fulfilment of the parliamentary agreements adopted unanimously in this House and referred to the reduction of the price on the front line of Ourense-Santiago-A Coruña. What we stand for today since the BNG, ladies and gentlemen, is very simple: we take responsibility for our future in order to be able to plan a public network of Galician railways, useful for Galicia and, therefore, useful for the citizenship of this country; useful regardless of whether someone lives in Vigo or Lugo. Because the neighborhood of the interior of this country cannot continue to be treated as if we were second. [[Applause]] We have a right to schedules, frequencies, connections and rates equal to any one. Because in Lugo and Ourense we also pay taxes for those who support a railway system that we don't enjoy. And most importantly: we defend that the Union really acts as the Government of Galicia in defending the interests of this country, because you have been ignoring these rights — not to go back much further — over the past eight years. Open a negotiating table with the Spanish State. We demand that you respect the political rights of this country, we assume railway management through one of the German public to, once and for all, catch the train and, with it, also the incomes of the future of this country. I'm finished as I started at the beginning. This is the story of an endless history. More than 80 years ago, in the Spanish Courts — and they can consult him in the Journal of Sessions — what was the first nationalist MP said: "Mr. President of the Council of Ministers, it seems a joke, because Galicia not only needs to be quickly completed by the construction of the railway between Zamora and La Coruña, but is also in need of what is called the "Central Greek railway" Today we have the opportunity to make a real and effective agreement that is not new, which has already been unanimously adopted in this House in September 2009. But, above all, we have the opportunity to start cutting off discrimination that, at least the people we still live in Lugo and Ourense, we are not resigned and much less willing to continue to keep in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. On April 9, 1918, Ourense's Regionalist Brotherhood demanded the need for the railway on the Zamora-Ourense line. In this regard, it unanimously approved the following agreement: "1. Asking for the urgent construction of the Zamora-Ourense railway for the international interest in facilitating access to Europe from the port of Vigo, whose proximity to Panama channel targets him as the future way of America. 2. To request that you supply the ports of the Coruña, Vigo and Vilagarcia with modern access necessary for the import and export work, so that these ports are the commercial deposits of the American routes after the war, as will happen to Bordeaux. 3. To manage that, by applying the treaty with France, if transport is facilitated to the Greek wines, and if it cannot be by rail, if the routes are decongested by direct invoicing to Irun, taking care that the wines go by railway to the Greek ports and from there, to Bilbao and France." A hundred years ago this agreement was concluded, an agreement aimed at placing Galicia at the epicenter of America-Europe transactions and even at the exit of Welsh products to Europe. I asked for the infrastructures needed to materialize that development pole. It has rained ever since, and sometimes the actions that are proposed have very weak targets or are, in fact, exempt from them. In any case, nothing to do with the ambitious agreement of the Ourense Regionalist Brotherhood. From that, until the end of the construction of the Zamora-Ourense line, in the mid-50s, political decisions and business and territorial interests were manifestly sectarian with Galicia. Nevertheless, for several decades now, what we call a traditional train has played a decisive role in the cities, towns and villages in which it has been operational. We must recognise the merits that we are losing: the key to the structure and territorial cohesion, the attractiveness of the economy, the dynamizer of the economy, the creator of employment, the unreplaceable mode of mobility in rural areas and the guarantee of mobility for many Greeks and Greeks. The advent of the 21st century changed the concept of displacement. The offsets are no longer measured in kilometers, they are measured in times. And technological advances have allowed, and allow, times of displacement to be reduced. But the new high-speed infrastructures don't lend themselves to the rural environment, they're not compatible with the mobility needs of people living in towns and villages. It seems logical that in this thesis the governments acted by consolidating the traditional railway by contributing to the rural environment and, at the same time, implementing high speed as a different target. But again, that's not happening. And again, like so many years ago, political decisions have punished the weakest: traditional rail and rural environment. Again economic interest punishes social interest. Almost a hundred years later, the People's Government decided to implement Royal Decree No. 22/2012 of July 20, 2012. And, under the rationalization disguise of railway services, approved by Mr Rajoy, the practical application of that decree, with Mr Feijóo's approval, placed traditional rail transport on the edge of the premature and consented disappearance. All the actions undertaken under the royal decree were in the weakening line to justify their dismantling. We must remember that the actions took place in four measures: closing stations and stops, reducing and eliminating frequencies, removing itineraries, changing schedules to discourage their use and also cutting economic and human resources. All the actions undertaken by the governments of the People's Party lead to the disappearance of the traditional train. Forty years to get it, fifty years to enjoy it and very few to dismantle it. [[Applause]] People's governments don't believe in the compatibility of the traditional train and the AVE, but it's that, in addition, a hundred years later, history repeats itself in Galicia in railway matters. A hundred years ago, political decisions delayed the arrival of Galicia on the current train, traditional train, forty years. Today, a hundred years later, popular governments, central and German, are delaying sine die the arrival infrastructures of the current train, the AVE, Galicia. We're afraid you can even overcome those forty years. We believe in the coexistence and complementarity between the traditional train and the AVE, so we will support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u231	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u232	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. This initiative that the BNG brings today contains many important actions for the conservation and dynamisation of railways in Galicia. Some may seem more important to us than others, some may seem more urgent than others, but they all have a clear will: that rail is a central part of mobility policies, which must be unquestionable from the defense of the environment, of decent rural life, of road safety or of the right to mobility. There is no doubt that the benefits of preserving and dynamizing the railway are necessary for any strategy against climate change, where CO2 emissions need to be reduced and where the mobility model has a lot to say and the railway has a lot to contribute. The railway can also solve many of the deficiencies that exist in Galicia with regard to the right to mobility, which is also fundamental for advancing the fixing of rural populations, because a good public transport service is crucial when it comes to having a good quality of life in rural areas, a decent life in rural areas. The railway is also important for Galicia in terms of road safety. Sad to say, Galicia heads all the rakings of sinisterism—atropelos to pawns and cyclists, we are at the head of the concentration of black points and we count on the points of greatest sinisterity across the state. On this issue, the railway also has a lot to contribute, and it's the safest collective transport to travel across the territory. We will, of course, support this initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, although we suspect that it will not go forward because the People's Party will not support it. Because in recent years he's been showing a lack of commitment to the railway, to the conventional train, where commission and breast-feeding are much more complex than AVE, where the low investment of the People's Party has been focused on in recent years. We have a number of problems for the railway to be dynamic in Galicia that have a leader: the most corrupt party in Europe, the People's Party. There's not much secret, it's not any supernatural force. On the one hand, the government's budget drop in Galicia. With the People's Party in the Government of Spain, State budgets in Galicia fell; and, above all, their execution fell sharply. The 2018 budgets proposed by the People's Party do not solve the problem either, and we also imagine what their level of execution will be. If it's the same in the last few years, it's going to be between 40% and 60%. On the other hand, another of the problems that we have with the railway and so we get to the situation in which we are in is the gradual privatization process of the railway service, which located the average of workers and public workers in 56 years, and is ascending; a juicy business for friends. It's a process that's going to let the deficit lines die because neoliberalism doesn't understand public service or the fight against climate change or the right to mobility or to fix population in rural areas. He only understands to expand private benefits; and in the neoliberalism of the People's Party's friends, in many cases, using the institutions. And finally, railway budgets are focused on investment in AVE at the cost of leaving the conventional railway. The data are clear and say that the two-thirds of the railway budgets are dedicated to AVE, which is sold much better in an election campaign, an irresponsible drift that predisposes private and partisan interests to the interests of citizenship. Because this is how AVE is used, which has been used electorally regardless of the cost of destroying, in cases, and abandoning, letting them fade, in others, the surrounding train, medium distance and commodities; which is fundamental to social and economic development, fundamental to reducing carbon emissions to the atmosphere, fundamental to guaranteeing the right to mobility and fundamental to vertebrate our territory. But that gives the People's Party absolutely the same, and that's why it has 70% of the railway infrastructure budgets dedicated to AVE and 30% on the conventional train. It is important to note that more than 95% of railway users and users use conventional trains, compared to less than 5% using AVE. However, the level of investment in one and another rail modes does not correspond to this reality, deteriorating the service that uses the vast majority of citizenship. So we're talking about insufficient, poorly distributed and privatising budgets. Without budgets, there is no for that; without running budgets, railway transport cannot be conserved and boosted, and the privatization process worsens the service. There's no secret. This leads to an obsolete railway network and a state-wide record of service implications. We have the FEVE line with 30% of the incidences of the entire state — 900 incidences last year and 2.5 incidences per day — for which the People's Party offers no solution. They destroyed the proximity train and we have Ferrol and Lugo condemned on a 19th-century train that is not competitive. And Ourense has been discriminated against within the high-speed lines, a little line the no competitive, Vigo-Ourense, the southern exit, we have the exit through the Cantabrian towards the very poor Meseta and with continuous incidences. We have less than 1% of freight transport, ports offline around the merchandise, and the Atlantic axis — which is the crown jewel — with incidences and posters of "no tickets" on many occasions. We therefore hope that the People's Party will support this initiative to support the discourses in which they talk about sustainability and rural legislation. And if not, they offer some solution to the scrapping of the railway in Galicia. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u233	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Rodil, I see you have problems with the issue of foreign artist hires, you can ask your partner the millions who hired when they were ruling in the Bipartite and taking you to culture. I see they forget how soon they spent. In any case, it's a shame they're so empty on En Marea's benches. The truth is, few of them! I don't know if it's the image of what The Tide is today, a pretty simile. [[Applause]] I hope they're gathered at least to return dignity to this House, which would be what they should be doing, if they keep talking. Since we're talking about trains today, what I'm seeing here is a clash of trains between the Tide factions, which are doing nothing but getting The Tide out. [[Laughter]] The Tide project is going down and it's going pretty bad. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Take action. We're still waiting. [[Laughter]] Don't worry, Mr. President, you're used to it. I've been in primary school and I'm used to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u235	Let's go on the train.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u236	No problem. The apartments go tomorrow, in the Coruña. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They've already accepted that it was wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u237	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u238	First of all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u239	On the train, on the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u240	Let's go to the train. I want to remember and start with that so that it is clear, and the words are not twisted, that the People's Group and its governments are absolutely supporters, and they are absolutely committed to the rail transport of people and goods. We will continue to support the driving measures of this transport, and that is why we have already pushed and voted on many of them. And not only were they voted, but they moved — as it had to be — from the Galician Union to the Ministry of Development, which is the competent administration on railway matters. And many of them either are already in progress or are collected — as you can see — in the draft general government budget for 2018. [[Murmurs.]] Good example of this — I know you don't like listening to it — is that Galicia, the one who weighs them down, is the third community in investment per inhabitant. Of the 900 million euros you have registered Galicia more than half are for the train, for the railway. This is the data, more than 50% of the investment comes to the train, to the railway. They don't like it, they don't like it. [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry. But it's not just about this. Another example of what's going on with the tide — as we're not going to talk about infrastructure again — is that we had a PNL on N-540, Lugo-Ourense, which they had to withdraw. Of course, because it was not only approved in Commission 2nd and called for Development, but the works are already under way. And with works already underway, they brought that proposal not of law. [[Murmurs.]] This is the level we've been watching lately. [[Murmurs.]] But he returns to this House once again, from the Block, the request for transfer from the railway service to Galicia. On this occasion, besides, not explicitly clarifying whether it's with the budgets or with the funding needed to cover the deficit; because, as you know, these neighboring lines have a deficit. Just this year, some of the services you ask for have an budget of 60 million euros to cover what is the public service obligation in these neighboring tranches, 60 million euros. I hope you're not thinking Galicia also assumes that deficit. But, of course, the strangest thing is reading at the last point — I don't know if it's a gazelle or wanted to be like this — they're asking for an integral road map, road transport, on this railroad. I suppose you've either already assumed that what you need to look for is the best transport service in every case — and, of course, of course, road haulage has to be and will always be more complete — or simply that it is — as I said — a gazelle. But anyway, I don't think this road transport is going to go wrong considering that we have a good number of plenarys without coming to this House. I think it's a good sign that it's working properly. In any event, in the next few days this second phase of the Road Transport Plan will possibly be published. Don't worry, what you can do on this occasion is collaborate and claim or contribute something to this plan. From the list of works we could talk about lots. But, look, on the subject of point 4 — AVE commitments — it will come before many other autonomous communities! And every three months, the Minister of Development comes to work and to end these works by the end of 2019 and they can be in progress by 2020. More than 80% of the execution is already carried out, and at last we see close to that completion. Are you, Santiago and Coruña? But if the 22nd day in Commission 2nd the Director General had already told them that I was asking for the Development. Let's at least give Fomento a few days so he can make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u242	On the Atlantic corridor, there has not been a month since the European Union sub-director who takes the issue of rail freight transport said in Galicia that the Government of the State had already asked for what they are putting here, for a prior request from the Government of Greece and other autonomous communities. In addition, it is already requested by a unanimously approved GNP in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u244	Yes, I'm done. On ERTMS, there are EUR 51 million in the Atlantic axis budgets, to include the totality of ERTMS across the Atlantic axis. Vote for that state budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u245	Thank you. Yes, yes, you have to vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u246	Vote for the state budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u247	...and other events today too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u248	...and we'll have the brake systems, because they're in the budget splits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u249	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u250	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u251	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u252	Yes, thank you, President. I, Mr. Fernández Prado, see what matters to you about the situation of the German railway system, especially in the neighborhoods of Lugo and Ourense, because you must have invested more than half of your intervention in talking to me about anything, everything was worth it for you not to have to address the matter... [[Murmurs.]] Time's up for the People's Party. Let me speak now. I would like to see Mr Prado deal more with the issue which is the subject of debate in this non-law proposal, which is the situation of the German railway system in the whole country, and in particular in the districts of Lugo and Ourense. You ended up talking to me about N-540 and other things that didn't come in the case or the story. And they talk about the persistent and recurring stroke, and I wonder what the stroke tells us. We have a channel without electrification in Lugo, and we've been waiting for decades for the false promises of dual-way and electrification. They've been in these state budgets for decades. [[Applause]] His word is worthless, absolutely nothing. How can we speak truly and not be considered an insult that tells us of high speed when we are unable to travel through a line worthy of such a name in the 21st century between Lugo and Ourense! I remember you — I remembered your intervention — a great book — I recommend it to the whole world — by Ignacio Ramonet and Noam Chomsky, who was How they sell us the bike. How many times do you think they can keep selling us the same bike? I don't know if you ever got on the train that travels from Lugo to Monforte, which goes from Lugo to Ourense anyway, and if you have looked at one of the great electoral promises that goes budgeted year by year in those general budgets of the Spanish State, which is the variant of the Poor of St. Xiao — Mrs Rodríguez, who is from Monforte, knows her well. Do you know how many years we've been waiting for that variant, which is exactly 7 kilometers? Throw it! Twelve years waiting for that variant! His word is absolutely worthless. [[Applause]] The state's general budgets, in addition to an insult to investments in our country, are absolutely wet paper. And I say that your word is useless because I referred, in my first intervention, to a unanimous agreement adopted on September 22, 2009, in this House, and I think today it deserves you to answer one of yours. Someone from the People's Party — and I want to quote it because it deserves to be quoted as well — said Mr Gómez Alonso, Member of this House for the People's Party in September 2009 — and this concludes with the following words: "Our commitment is inescapable with the implementation of the German railway force. It was an election promise by the People's Party in the past autonomous elections, and now we're going to make it a reality in this legislation. We bet on a railway body like Catalan, Basque and Andalusian. The German railway force is going to be created and the German railway body has to push, among other things..." He spoke of a few light meters, which are yet to be seen. His word is absolutely worthless, they have been lying to this country, at least — I said it in my first intervention — eight years. We will continue to bring it as many times as necessary until that German railway public and the reality of a quality rail system, also within the country, is a reality. Nothing else. And I appreciate the support of the Socialist Party and En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-10-DSPG066.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
