ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr López Crespo and Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández. Point one. Debates and votes on the opinion and motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector accounts of Galicia contained in the 2016 Activity Report
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u2	The Standing Committee on the Management of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee of the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the accounts of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2016 Activity Record recommends the approval of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2015 and incorporates 12 motions for resolutions which were adopted in committee and which are now put to the debate and vote. In particular, resolutions Nos. 1 to 12 originally formulated by paragraphs 2 to 12 of the People's Parliamentary Group, and resolution No. 12 originally formulated by paragraph 21 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The chairman of the Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors, Mr Daniel Luis Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, spoke for the presentation of the Committee's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. In my capacity as Chairman of the Permanent Commission, not a Lexislative for Relations with the Council of Auditors, I must inform this plenary that the reports of the Public Sector Supervisory Board of Galicia contained in its Annual Activity Report of 2016 have entered the Chamber on July 21 of last year. We have studied the aforementioned reports, as well as the 12 motions for resolutions submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group, the 17 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, the 21 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia and the 9 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, the designated statement raised to the Commission for Relations with the Council the corresponding report and the motions for resolutions, on which it was delivered at its meeting on 31 January. The resolution adopted incorporates the motion for a resolution originally tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group on the approval of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2015. The remaining motions for resolutions which have been adopted in committee and which are now being put to the debate and vote are in total 12, of which the above-mentioned proposal for the approval of the General Account is excluded, and are ordered as follows. Original proposals from the People's Parliamentary Group, first of all. Number 1, which calls on the Galician Union to continue to comply effectively with the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors in its monitoring reports. Number 2, which calls on the Galician Union to continue to be one of the autonomous communities with the greatest investment effort, maintaining the percentage of capital expenditure on the total non-financial expenditure, far above the Spanish average. Number three, urging completion of the debt reduction process for public entities, which has been down by more than 200 million since 2009. Number 4, which calls for the development and promotion of mechanisms for intervention and control of health expenditure that have been initiated with the new organizational structure of General Intervention approved at the beginning of this year. Number 5, urging the Union to continue to reduce the public deficit and the use of indebtedness simultaneously. Number 6, which calls for the continued reduction of the risk to the Galician Union that is alive on the premises of the Galician Economic Promotion Institute. Number 7, so the Galician Board is urged to continue to increase its transparency in financial matters, as it has done with the incorporation of changes in income forecasts into the memory sent to the Board of Auditors, or with the publication of the General Account on the Internet. Number 8, which calls on the Union to continue to maintain itself among autonomous communities with the highest per capita budget for public health. Number 9, which calls for continued agile and transparent management in the Public Service Emergency Preparedness of Galicia 061, both in terms of recruitment and in terms of payment to suppliers, and especially in terms of the call resolution system. No. 10 calling on the Galician Union to ensure that future calls for non-emergency cleaning and transport contracts in the health system contain a more complete case-by-case and a greater number of requirements that include greater control instruments to facilitate monitoring and evaluating compliance with uniform quality standards throughout the territory. And number 11, so the Galician Union is urged to offer on its Transparency Portal and Government-wide specific information on the autonomic public sector reorganization plans, which have allowed an annual saving of 70 million euros. Finally, draft resolution No 12, originally proposed by Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, calling on the Galician Parliament to draw up a work plan 2017-2020 to facilitate the participation of pemes in autonomous public procurement, in accordance with Directive 2014/24 of the European Union, and Law 14/2013 of 27 December 2013 on the restructuring of the autonomous public sector, on the division into batches when the object of contracts so permits. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of these proposals are put to the debate and vote at this plenary session. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u4	Thank you, Mr Varela. The role of parliamentary groups in the defence of their motions for resolutions and the establishment of positions on them for a period of five minutes each group. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u5	Good morning. I would like my first words to be sent, at this moment of political exceptionality, that we cannot normalize, a solidarity embrace to the three brave women, women and former members of the Catalan Parliament who are suffering different forms of repression this week only to defend the right to decide. You're not alone and the Democrats are with you. [[Applause]] The least democratic people have seen no. Finally, today we are debating motions for resolutions, the control reports of the Galician public sector that contain the control of the 2014 General Account. It is the second debate of this kind that we have about legislation, and the first thing we see is that the capacity of understanding of the People's Party goes from bad to worse. In May 2017 since the opposition we criticized that only 21 proposals, 3 transactions and 1 were accepted by the German Government. But this time we are going to the worst: of the 47 proposals that make up the opposition parties only accept, as Mr Suanzes said, 1 of the Socialist Party. And, man!, that the People's Party believes itself a possessor of absolute truth and that it does not like to dialogue is something we already know, but, when we talk about proposals of action that are directly related to the reports of the Board of Auditors and with which this body concludes, because the lack of understanding of the People's Party demonstrates two things: that they are interested neither in progressing in transparency nor making the Board of Auditors a really useful tool for the distribution of our spending and use of our resources, and that this expansion of functions that contemplate the new legislation does not cease to be a more cosmetic exercise than real. In summarizing some of the issues on which the People's Party went on its knees and which were proposals from the Nationalist Block in Wales, for example, the first of them was such an elemental thing that the Greek Government drew up an annual report — and it is debated in this Parliament — on which recommendations it accepted, incorporated or not. But they don't like accounting, and then they also rejected a proposal as absolutely elementary as this one. In another measure battery, for example, we urge the Galician Board to introduce corrections in its budgetary planning and to stop resorting over and over to issues such as the Contingency Fund or the unforeseen expenditure programme to finance issues that are elementary current expenditure, especially those as basic services as health or social services. In the same line we also ask for a report on the degree of compliance of budgets and a qualitative assessment of deviations produced through changes. But, of course, they don't want to, either, it won't be that they have to explain in more detail why there are such important issues as electrical ticket games to name the City of Culture, it won't be that we see that the propaganda that we've been accustomed to in budget debates is no more than propaganda. Another block we present includes the need for review of bodies of instrumental entities that have shown that they have evidence of lack of transparency or that they have not complied with the requirements of the Board of Auditors itself, such as the Manzaneda ski station, the process of extinction of Turgaliza, public-private contracts or the undervalued shadows. Finally, one of the issues that is at the heart of most of our measures and which could be summarized as a great package to preserve the public character of our basic services, especially one that is of great concern to us, to the thread of what we have also discussed in this Parliament in recent months, which is health care. So we propose a process of reviewing public-private partnerships, in order to plan the brake that is being verified in the loss of the public character of essential services and to rescue also, progressively, those that the Board itself has recognized as being auctioned down, which are absolutely impossible to comply with and which are at the expense of the quality of the services itself, and also, in the quality of the employees themselves and employees: for example, the cleaning service in Sergas hospital. In all light, the resolutions presented by the People's Party are insufficient and not concrete: for example, on this issue, they simply say "more complete prayers", as if to say "more complete prayers" was to be a guarantee that this will be verified. In that same line, we propose different measures to safeguard the maintenance of health care as an essential public service, cutting down its underfunding and paralyzing the policy of extending concerts sponsored by the People's Party. But just as we saw the thread of recent debates, such as health collapses or the new health law itself, shielding public health as such is something that doesn't interest you either...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u7	...to the People's Party. So we conclude that nothing else, nothing new under the sun; but we will continue to work proposals like the ones we present today, if the People's Party does not incorporate them, through other initiatives of control and impulse to the Greek Government, because, of course, for us they are priority issues, although once again they pass without pain and glory the parliamentary roller. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. "If you're looking for different results, don't always do the same." What an obituary! Right? This clear sentence, of course, quite well sums up the management of the Feijóo People's Party at the Galician Union. The Galician Union ruled by the Feijóo Nuñez People's Party does not seek different results, because its actions have no consequences. The Galician Board of Auditors is in breach of the Board of Auditors' recommendations year after year and nothing happens. Perhaps this debate, the denunciation that we make here today the various opposition groups on the repeated breaches of the Council of Galicia of Nuñez Feijóo will not have much impact outside this Chamber: probably, and unfortunately, neither will it. We are, once again, before a government expert in doing what it does, in the great creator of paper rights. They are rights of paper to adopt a Law of transparency and good governance in 2016 — by the way, the first was approved in 2006 by the Socialist Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño—which in the first article says that the object is to regulate transparency and publicity in public activity, understanding it as being developed with public funding, as well as the right of citizens to access public information. However, the Council of Auditors points out year after year, that the annual report on the general account is destructed and incomplete, without incorporating the information provided for in the approval rules. It must also be transparent that 8 public societies, 11 foundations and 7 consortia do not report, without losing any benefit, no funding, no economic contribution. By the way, the municipalities that do not render accounts — with which we are in disagreement, with which they do not render them — of course, they cannot access the Grants of the Galician Union. Why don't all these societies, foundations and consortia that don't have the same treatment? Anyway. Is it also transparency that today, eight years after the adoption of the Law on the Organization and Operation of the General Administration and the Autonomic Public Sector of Galicia, have not launched the register of dependent entities that are expected to operate in it? What's the reason? Why doesn't even the Board of Auditors itself know exactly what are the subject of the audit reports? What's the reason? Is that transparency? Or is it transparent that the Autonomous Community has not implemented financial accounts in the accounting system to comply with the Galicia General Public Accounting Plan of the Year... 2010!Is that what you're talking about? 2010! By the way, this amendment was dealt with with by our group last year and continues to fail, unless they changed today. Is it transparency that real investment cannot be differentiated from intangible expenditure? Is that transparency? Or is it transparency that there is no clear information on European funds, mainly on the execution and achievement of objectives? Or do they continue to incorporate bridge programmes to carry out credit transfers by obviating the limits that it sets to its own regulations? Anyway, of course they do the same things so that the results are the same, because nothing happens, nothing happens! You create paper rights when you approve the Council of Auditors Act as an external control body for the accounts and the financial and accounting management of the public sector of the Autonomous Community, but it is then that you do not provide it with the necessary and sufficient means to be able to develop your activity within the appropriate time frame, and that you do not have to be talking about the 2015 account yet; to disregard your work, failing to carry out your recommendations year after year; to put all the Members and Members of the People's Party who, year after year, have to come here to defend the indefensible and non-compliance on the part of the Galician Union; to do again what they do, without anything happening. [[Applause]] The Galician People's Party Board, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, passes an administrative procedure which allows him to say that they are accountable. That's true, they'd only have to keep their accounts off, but they're dressed in a way that's not transparent and, therefore, they're not known for either opposition or citizenship. And we don't understand! What do you have to hide? Because, where there's no transparency, something seems like you want to hide, and we want it to be transparent so they have nothing to hide. You let the Council do as much as you can, but without really putting the means, the tasks and the capacity for failure to comply with them to have consequences. Last year four motions for resolutions of this group were negotiated and this year only one. By the way, they didn't approve what we repeated last year because they're still out of date today. And finally — because I know that they will warn me of time — they are reminded that, in the last amendment of the Council of Auditors Act, among others, the objective of ensuring proper management of public finances has been added, and the Council of Auditors assumes the competence to prevent corruption in the public sector of the Autonomous Community. Will this prevention of corruption be another right of paper? They're gonna do it again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u11	...in the face of corruption? Are you going to look the other way? Seeing the last cases of corruption being tried...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u13	Corruption is not just a legal problem, Mr President; it questions the foundation of democracy and politics. So we won't understand any other way they don't act and keep doing what they do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u15	Good morning. Apparently, what we are discussing here today is a statement by the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Board of Auditors. But, in fact, it's evidence, the evidence that the absolute majority in the hands of a party of poor democratic culture is transformed into a parliamentary roller, a heartbreaker that crushes the rest of the groups, regardless of Parliament's devaluation, the loss of quality of parliamentary debate, which leads us to this process of low-intensity democracy in which we have been immersed for a few years. Because the statement that today will approve the House, obviously with the votes against En Marea, only includes proposals from the People's Party, with a minimum concession to the Socialist Group. The 17 proposals presented by my group, the 9th BNG, and the 20th of 21 of the Socialist Group, have been completely disregarded; and it does not have to do with their quality, because reading what is to be approved today — and I will put the shame of hearing those who are going to vote in favour of this report — challenges the lack of quality of the opposition's proposals. In theory, what we are voting on today is proposals for action by Parliament in Galicia on a control report by the Board of Auditors. That is, a public audit that the Board of Auditors does to the Government in which it reveals the evases, the deficiencies and makes recommendations for correcting them. That's the report of the Board of Auditors. What will most of the People's Party approve here today? I'll read them: "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to continue to be one of the autonomous communities with the greatest investment effort." Is this what the Board of Auditors is talking about? "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to continue to reduce simultaneously the public deficit and the appeal for indebtedness." Does this have to do with the criticisms of the Board of Auditors? In the end, I left one that produces me to tenderness: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue its agile and transparent management! in the Public Health Emergency Foundation, especially in the call resolution system." [[Applause]] That is what the Members of the People's Party are going to vote for today: to laugh at the Council of Auditors, to laugh at Parliament, to laugh at democracy. With us it doesn't contain. And the PP parliamentary roller turns most of this chamber into government action palms, disregarding the role of control that must always have the Legislative over the Executive, even when most of them belong to the same party. We have submitted 17 motions for resolutions from which I will only refer to one, to 16, in which we call for increased budgetary and staff resources to be allocated to the Board of Auditors to improve its work. This proposal did not count on the approval of the PP, and it did not surprise us — that is true — because three years ago the Board of Auditors took on a new task of enormous importance and complexity: to pursue corruption, to control the illegal financing of political parties. Does the House know how many more people work on the Board of Auditors to deal with this complex task? Do you know that? Sky, sky! This data demonstrates the real interest the People's Party has in pursuing corruption. With no means, no resources, the only thing the Board of Auditors can do is check that the accounts presented by the parties correspond to the accounting rules. For that to be understood: the Board of Auditors only sees the accounting of the parties, but in no case even tries to know if a party, any party, who for decades had a B account in the state as a whole, and which, in addition, is already proven, can in any case in the same practice in our country. What is the possibility that the Board of Auditors will discover a plot of illegal financing of a party such as Gürtel, Lezo, Punica, Bárcenas, Aquamed, Nodes and Camps? No one, because they have no means, neither the function nor the task of investigating this irregular funding, that box B. This is the explanation why the Board of Auditors is not equipped with means: because the pursuit of corruption, illegal financing, the majority group of this chamber has no interest in it ceases to be a mere theoretical statement. I'm done. The 17 motions for resolutions tabled in Marea, actually, as we have ten commandments, can be summed up in one, the first, which says no more than: "The Parliament calls on the Galician Council to stop jeopardizing the Board of Auditors and to assume and implement the recommendations which it collects from year to year in its monitoring reports." That's how it was.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u16	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In the 2015 monitoring reports, the Board of Auditors ratifies that the Galician Board has continued to improve its budgetary management with positive results in euro, such as compliance with stability targets, reduced financial expenditure, debt management or avalanche. The Board of Auditors ratifies that good management is being done and that it is continuing with good management. I understand that for the opposition it is very tempting to use partial and biasedly these reports as a weapon of wear to the Government, especially considering the few that count. But for us the usefulness of these reports is that they make up a guide to improving the management of public funds. I thank you, Mr. Lago, for ratifying in your intervention the improvement in the management of the public accounts that President Feijóo's government has done. And in this sense, on the basis of what the Board of Auditors says, our motions for resolutions, which you also wanted to ridicule. Yes, yes, I wanted to ridicule them, it's in the Journal of Sessions. But our proposals aim at continuing to comply with and recommendations made by the Board of Auditors — and I say that I continue because this reflects a report of the Board of Auditors itself — to continue to be one of the autonomous communities with the greatest investment effort. I remind you that we are five points above the Spanish average, the head of investment per inhabitant and the head of payment of suppliers. This is not ballad, ladies and gentlemen, because it has a lot to do with breaking or not breaking small businesses and self-employed people, to complete the debt reduction process of public entities, which have assumed a decrease of more than 200 million euros since 2009. I don't think it's a ballad either to continue to reduce the public deficit simultaneously, and the resource is debt, and to advance transparency. The reports of Sergas put their speeches on the ground for all these years, because they recognize that the reduction in the expenditure shifted from 2012 to 2014 has been reduced by 30% over the previous year, and by 2015 it has been reduced again; one year, 2015. Let's continue with this good management. They recognize that the 2015 per capita budget has placed us as the fifth autonomous community of common regime with better ratio and the fourth largest growth experienced compared to 2014. And, in fact, they ratify the so transparent management of the 061, and our proposals are going to follow this good management, keep us among the communities with the highest budget in public health per capita and develop the mechanisms for intervention and control of health expenditure. In response to patient transfer reports and procurement of public services, in fact, we have a proposal that in future tenders should include a more specific case-file and a greater requirement for greater control instruments to facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of compliance with quality standards. So we already have a proposal in this regard. And continuing in the Sergas area, BNG's concern about the increase in public health rates and prices is to tell them -- as they've already told them -- that it only obliges third parties to pay; we're talking about mutuals and insurance companies. And with regard to health concerts, it is not true that they are structural in nature, they are complementary in nature. But what is true is that between 2004 and 2008 the budget devoted to concerts grew by 44%, in 2009 it froze and then decreased. And today we have fewer concerts, more economic resources and more personnel in the field of health. And indeed, we accept only one proposal from the GSP to facilitate the participation of pemmes in public procurement, because it is a commitment from this government. The rest of your initiatives, Your Honor, half are repeated from the previous debate, repeat those that have already been rejected, even repeat, even if there is no control report that justifies them and even repeats the approved ones in May. In Marea also repeats six, by some copies of the BNG and the PSOE, because you didn't present them. And they're justified in saying that these proposals are not met because there's a day or two and because there's one or two that's not finished. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only debate in which the recommendations of the Board of Auditors are addressed, but they forget it when they amend budgets, when they register initiatives or when they amend those of the other groups, because they always go contrary to what the Board of Auditors says. If they don't want to lie, they can't say that the board doesn't do anything, because there are official publications about it. For example, on the transparency of the execution of European funds, the PSdeg resolution repeated this year is met and opened on the transparency portal a section specified in this data, and there is a link to transparency and European funds. The resolution and completion of the staff organizational processes of the gaga de Sangue, Organs and Fabrics Agency, published in the Dog November 2017, or the reinforcement of Sergas financial control personnel, also published in the dog November 2017. I have already finished, Mr President, by reminding the Socialist Group that with regard to its proposals 5 and 6 Lofaxga regulates the legal relationship of entities with the Union and the regulation of budgetary stability regulates the economic relationship; the legal and economic linkage must not agree, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo. What you have to agree with is always budgeting with the General Account, and then there's total agreement. All budget-integrated entities can be monitored in the General Account. It doesn't make sense that entities that receive much of their income from sources other than the Union, even though they are linked to it, were included in the budget. This is also the case of the Manzaneda Mountain Station, which is not an autonomic public sector, or not talking about Turkmenistan, which is a non-profit and non-profit entity. I'm done, Mr. President. On the rest of the questions we have just referred to in the committees and the Government has taken note of all these managements. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Vote for the Opinion and motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. We shall proceed to the vote — close the doors, please, of the Ditame and of the motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector accounts in Galicia contained in the 2016 record of activities. [[General Account of the Autonomous Community 2015]] Let us vote first. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] First we shall vote on this and then we shall vote on the motions for resolutions. Ditam vote. Voting of the Ditame approved in the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the audit reports of the public sector accounts of Galicia contained in the 2016 activity memory. [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2015]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 63; votes in favour, 6. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u19	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission, which are in particular twelve. Do we vote them together? That's why I ask. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to vote separately? Excuse me, give your voice to the chair. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Number one? Thank you. That tells me it's already approved. So, all of them together? [[Assentment.]] We voted for the twelve joint proposals. I'm sorry, I just can't hear it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The number twelve separately. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Vote of the motion for a resolution No. 12 of the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector accounts of Galicia contained in the 2016 activity memory. [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2015]] Sorry, there's a slight confusion. Explanation, everything's settled. Quiet. Everything's settled. Quiet! Number 1 is already approved and no vote is necessary. The number twelve comes from the PSOE, so they ask for a separate vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But they ask for a separate vote again. Number 12 comes from the PSOE and calls for a separate vote. You will vote either for or against, it's easy, and then we vote the rest. It's simple! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But they want to ask you again. They want to ask you again in the motions for resolutions and the lawyer tells me what I must do. Here is always what the lawyer says. We voted for proposal No 12. If you want, I'll read it. I'll read it. Proposal No. 12 is a proposal that coincides with paragraph 21 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It's just that I've been saying it from the beginning! [[Murmurs.]] I'll read it: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to draw up a work plan 2017-2020 to facilitate the participation of pemmes in public procurement, in compliance with the European Union Directive 2014/24, and in Law 14/2013 itself of 27 December 2013 on the restructuring of the autonomic public sector, on the division into batches when the object of contracts so permits." So this is proposal number 12. Vote of the motion for a resolution No. 12 of the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector accounts of Galicia contained in the 2016 Activity Record. [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2015]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; votes against, 12. The voting is positive. Accordingly, proposal No. 12.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u20	We are now voting on the rest of the proposals except for number one, which was already voted on. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos. 2 to 11 of the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the audit reports of the public sector accounts of Galicia contained in the 2016 Activity Memory. [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2015]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 18; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u21	The vote was closed. Open the doors, please. We continue with the second point, legislative texts. Debates and takes account of the Proposal for a Law of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, for the derogation from Law 1/2012 of 29 February, of temporary measures in certain public employment matters of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u22	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning. We welcome the workers and public workers and the union representatives in the House to follow this debate, which we hope will reach a good port with the support of the various groups of the House. From In Marea we believe that it is time — after six years of discussing this circumstance, to bring non-law proposals, to bring motions, to bring different proposals and questions, and even proposals with regard to the Law of Administrative Tax Measures of each year — that the groups, as a whole, understand that it is time to return what has been withdrawn, the effort that has been requested from them, to the different workers and public workers. In 2012, with the justification of the economic crisis, the crisis of the system, and the crisis of the system, the Council of Galicia adopted a series of measures taking advantage of precisely this situation and the restrictive impositions of the Ministry of Economic Economy and the European Union itself, which withdrew rights to workers and workers, not only in the system crisis, but also in quantitative, monetary, wage wages, but, of course, of course, by taking advantage of a number of measures taking advantage of this situation and the restrictive imposition of restrictive impositions by the Ministry of Economic Economy and the European Union itself, which withdrew rights to workers and workers, not only in quantitative, monetary, monetary, wage, but, of course, of course, by adopting this situation and the restrictive provisions of the Ministry of Economy and the European Union itself, which removed rights to workers and workers, not only in a quantitative a quantitative, quantitative right to employment, not only in a quantitative reduction of the employment conditions of the economy, the year 2012, and in 2012, and in 2012, and in 2012, and, of 2012, and, of course, and, of course, the year-for, and, and, and, of course, as well, and also, and also, as possible, in terms in terms in terms in terms in terms in terms in terms in terms, and in terms, and in terms, and, and in terms in the quality policy, and, and, and in terms., and in terms in terms in terms in terms in terms., and, and in terms in terms., and, and in terms in terms in terms., and in terms in terms., and in terms., and in terms., in terms, and in terms, in terms, and in terms, and in terms., and in terms., and in terms of the social policy, and in 2012, and in 2012,, in the policy policy policy policy policy policy policy policy policy policy., and, and, and, and, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, and in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012., and, and, and, and in the social policy., in 2012, in 2012, in the European, in 2012,, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, of the year, and in 2012,, and in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, in 2012, with the year 2012, with the year 2012, with the year 2012, with the year 2012, with the In fact, we want to emphasize and transfer that, despite the fact that the proposal is immediately based on cuts in labour, cuts in rights and salaries of workers and workers, it is a proposal that directly affects the quality of care. I mean, we're not talking about the material conditions of workers and public workers, but directly about something that is the quality of public services and, therefore, the materialization of citizenship rights. We're talking about the situation in justice, which is also facing an exemplary strike these days, and to which we want to give our encouragement and our support for the fight they're giving to recover the rights that have been taken from them. [[Applause]] We're talking about conditions in the public administration, which has to be agile and not bureaucratic. We're talking about conditions in the Social Policy Council, taking care of our children, our elders, our dependents. We are generally talking about the total number of public employment posts, which today are severely damaged, among other things, by standards such as Law 1/2012. The statement of reasons of the law itself substantiated its temporary nature by explicitly collecting that these were extraordinary measures, that were urgent and of a temporary nature. The government justified the economic situation by cutting the rights of these workers and workers. But specifically, and precisely because of that exceptional situation, the Government itself fixed the rule itself, through the single final provision of the law, its review within a period of two years; that is, it linked the economic situation to the revision of that rule which withdrew rights to those workers and those workers, and attached circumstantially to that GDP, to that gross domestic product, the single final provision of Law 1/2012. We already have enough debates in this chamber in which the Government and the majority group that the economy improves, and the different opposition groups have recognized the increase in GDP, in this case by 3%. But we have repeatedly denounced the unequal distribution of that increase in gross domestic product. For those who don't go, it's for the usual, the workers and the workers, and in this case the public employees. The Galician Union demanded an effort from these workers and their families. I have to remember — and I do so now — the series of rights that also affect the reconciliation of family and work life that have been cut off since 2012, and yet the Union does not commit itself, and therefore it does not in principle comply with this single final provision, which required it to review, but does not comply with the commitment that when the situation is improved — according to the words of the Union itself — it would be returned to those workers and public workers. I must remember that Act 1/2012 called for the suspension of social security benefits in situations of temporary disability; i.e. whether they cut the benefits of those employees and public employees in the event of casualties, penalizing the second and successive lows. I mean, not only is the number of professionals cut off, but it's penalized that these professionals can get sick. The social action aid was cut off, which helped to alleviate certain precarious situations in these families of these workers and workers. The days of free will have been reduced, and that is a frontal shock to what he said to defend the Council of Galicia in order to reconcile working life and family life, and therefore in the line of flotation of equality and equalization of rights of men and women. The application of several relevant articles of the collective agreement, of the V collective agreement, has been suspended. We've had six years, I've been moving this situation into this chamber for six years, so that these workers' and workers' rights will be returned in the suspension of rest days, the compensation of Sundays and holidays, the suspension of the right to a dining room, the retirement gratification or the suspension of the right to an uninterrupted weekly discharge of two natural days. That situation is unacceptable. It disrupts this conciliation, interrupts rights that have been won by workers legally and legitimately, and also, of course, entails an over-exorption of public templates which are not compensated by the Galician Union. It has also limited the voluntary extension of the retention of the active service, or, i.e., the forced retirement of workers and public workers. And in view of this situation, despite the fact that economic conditions have changed, not only did the Council of Galicia comply with the law, its own law, which obliged it to review this text, these conditions, two years later, i.e., in 2014 – we are in 2018 – but six years later this situation remains unrevised and unreversed, and the claims for labour accidents, the reduction of staffing and collective conflicts continue. Now we have two open. We have one in the case of Social Policy in the residence of Oleiros; we have another of the workers and the workers of culture because of this substantial change in working conditions; and the situation is perpetual of conflict, in which the Union is unable to solve the needs, and of course what is producing is a worsening of the working conditions of those workers and those workers. We wondered how it is possible that when the workers and the workers made the " effort" — among other things — that if they were imposed on them and looked at marbles not only their remunerative conditions, but their personal life and even the possibility of collective bargaining, because it must be remembered that all this was already won, it was agreed with the Administration, and it was suspended sine die. As though they and they do, the administration doesn't. It is obscene, it is shameful, that the President of the Government — even now absent — rises the salary by 7.5%, but the cuts are for public employees. It's shameful for workers and workers to have to assume 14% loss of salary, a deterioration in working conditions that implies that older people have worse quality in care, that dependents have worse quality in care, that minors have worse quality in care, that justice is drowned by lack of staff, and that files are accumulated. [[Applause]] It's not the strike that involves paralyzing pending trials, it's also the personnel cuts that have taken place in recent years. How is it possible for the President of the Government to raise the salary and that the trienniums of counsellors and advisers to be twice as double as those of the reference groups? They said the union centers would have the workers of the same group working twenty years to collect the same as the ladies and gentlemen who are sitting here in their trienies. It's indecent that these public employees are forced to assume the burden of cuts that do not take over their directors. What a great example of the leadership of the Galician Union, it's even obscene! And so what we've seen today do here, after defending non-law proposals, motions, questions, proposals, not just us, but the rest of the opposition groups, who have brought this issue to debate in the last six years, and asking for the law to be done what four years ago had to be reviewed, which for six years has never had to be approved, so they don't always pay the same ones and the same ones. I remind them once again that they are not the workers and the workers only of what this bill is about. It's not them and they are the ones who pay for this situation. It's the people who have to use public services, it's the people who don't have the resources to go to the private service, and it's therefore materialized in the deterioration of the fulfilment of the effective rights of citizenship, it doesn't just affect public employees. They have on the table a simple law, a single article, except for the suspension of that destiny supplement of the former high offices that contemplated the Galician Union. The law is simple, the decision to make, too. It's been six years of cuts, it's been four years' delay in non-compliance with the law, the people who are in the rostrum and the rest of the public employees, who are many thousands in our country, who want at least to have the decency today to return some dignity to public employment. It is clear that these four years of lack of reconciliation will not be returned, because it is not you who have to comply with endless cartels, without compensation at the end of the week, so that you cannot see your families, with reductions — I repeat — of 14% of your wages, but at least start to walk by supporting this non-law proposal today. If they have any consideration, which I suppose the different groups can have, they have the possibility to vote on this, and in the speech they propose the amendments they consider appropriate. But they shouldn't be costing employees and public employees today, otherwise we don't know what kind of example they'd be giving either the people who claim to be their public directors or, of course, what example they can be setting when they recognize a recovery from the economic crisis and yet they don't comply with the law that obliges them to review this situation. They take into account, they approve taking into consideration, and they understand that we can no longer maintain this state of affairs of public workers' rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u25	Good morning. The first thing we have to regret from the BNG Parliamentary Group is these absent blue banks; that is, the German Government does not want to be present in this very important debate. There's no government member sitting here. [[Applause]] We want to send a fraternal greeting to the representatives of the public administration's trade union organizations who are present here, the self-government, and also send a fraternal and solidarity greeting to the strike committee and to the workers and workers of the Administration of Justice, in their exemplary struggle against wage discrimination and for their wage, social and labor rights. A strike by the Administration of Justice that lasts ten days in a row and that has much to do with this debate on Law 2/2012, of temporary measures in the field of public employment, because strike is an extreme measure, the fruit of fatigue, exhaustion, mistrust and indignation that have suffered by employees of the Administration of Justice, and all the employees of the Public Administration, over these years. Besides, the People's Party governments built a false story, full of lies, traps, deception and extortion. They asked for temporary sacrifices — they called it temporary — but sacrifices came to stay, because they had — as we shall see — other motivations. They said they were times of weak cows, that we had to tighten the belt, that we lived above our possibilities, and who most sacrifices were workers and workers in the public sector, who were also disbanded, despised, humiliated and polished by the governments of the People's Party, and especially healthy here, in Galicia, by the Government of the United States. That's why they're tired and tired, and that's why they say enough, and not only the staff of the Administration of Justice — more than 2,500 people — but also the staff of Sergas, the staff of education, the staff of the self-government, who are more than 100,000 people, because they've been seized over the years by more than 25% of the salary on different routes; because they've cut off social and labor rights that have already been explained here and that I'm not going to reiterate; because they promised that when they came good times they would be rewarded, and they're still waiting. That's why they're tired, desperate, because they feel cheated, noned and despised. The year 2012 will pass to history in the Spanish State and Galicia as the date of the greatest attack on the working class in general, and on the public administration personnel in particular. They were called reforms — good at word — to the involuntary and backward policies of the People's Party that brought about a profound change in the rules of the game within the framework of social and labour rights. 2012 was the year of labour reform, the second of the 21st century; 2012 was the year of temporary measures on public employment, and it rained on wet. They were pieces of an enormous shift in the legal framework of workers' and workers' rights, which was in addition to the change in article 135 of the Constitution and the Law 2/2012, of budgetary stability and financial sustainability; changes in the playing framework that brought serious consequences in the form of impoverishment of the working class and a gigantic policy of social, labor and democratic rights. A gigantic inflow of achievements of decades of union struggle and politics in collective bargaining, in the working day, in unemployment benefits, in terms of dismissal, in rights to strike or pensions. This gigantic regression, this giant involution, was particularly vicious in public services, and there the state's PP and the Welsh PP, the Union and Mr. Feijóo, were advanced students, were more papist than the Pope. They unleashed a ruthless attack on the public sector and public service workers in the form of a campaign of contempt: they were called vague, they were called privileged, trying to confront them in the rest of the working class. The PP and Junta were champions of the cuts in labour rights, they were champions of the dismantling of public services, as a result of reforms that were not reforms. Public administration staff have lost, as I said, more than 25 per cent of purchasing capacity over the years, not to mention the abolition of labour rights, which has been even more serious in the case of workers. And it wasn't a problem of availability of resources — this has to be made clear — because while this was happening, in that same year 2012 the state gives millions of help to the bank: more than 60 billion public money, of which, according to the Bank of Spain — and this is really scandalous — will not recover 40 billion. What do we call this? This is called scandal, fraud, stealing gloves, shame and infamy. He has no other name. [[Applause]] And it makes clear that the Government of the People's Party — especially the whole People's Party, but not only the People's Party — acts in the service of the bank and of the great capital. They removed the competition from the savings boxes, gave them money for the deep-lost scrap — in the case of the Greek savings boxes over EUR 9 billion — and then sold it for 700 million. And they don't have to return a single euro, because in this wonderful social and democratic rule of law of what we enjoy, the benefits are for the bank and the losses are already in charge of Dad State. And finally, we just learned that in the years of the crisis the big bank — seven large banks — won 84,000 million euros. And we've also just heard that the Spanish state comes out of the crisis with EUR 35,000 million less in wages. What do we call this? We call it reforms? This is absolutely obscene, it's disgusting, it's cruel, it's inhuman. For whom does the People's Party rule, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Who are these cruel, unfair, corrupt policies for? He doesn't tell us stories. All of this shows that the so-called crisis was actually a scam, a legalized theft; the excuse for a gigantic spore of incomes and rights, for a gross transvasion of income and wealth of the working class to fatten the account of the results of large companies and a privileged minority; for the imposition of unfair and corrupt economic and social policies that benefit the countries of the center and spoil the periphery. And with regard to the time measures adopted in 2012 — of course, the BNG vote in favour of this initiative — applying the logic of the right, the logic of the People's Party, should be revised in 2014 and have been in force for six years. They should be waived once, in your opinion, the crisis has already ended and GDP is rising above 3%. But reality is stubborn, they were neither reforms nor were temporal, they were structural changes, they were ideological changes that came to stay and that were decided in the dark and remote power centers to which the People's Party governments — and not just the People's Party governments — obey as automatons. These are ideological changes which are summarized in two sentences: concentration of wealth and centralization of power. It is also true — it has to be said — that this situation remains in force due to the inability of the state political forces called "progressive" and "rupturist" to overthrow the Government of the People's Party of Rajoy in 2016. But Rajoy is still alive, installed in falsehood, manipulation, the partisan use of the state apparatus, authoritarianism and sovereignty. More happy than a few pastures! Applying all the repressive and regressive arsenal. And they remain alive — for the misfortune of Galicia and the working class — article 135 of the Constitution, the Law of budgetary stability, labour reforms and the Law bites. We're facing a powerful enemy, PP is just a piece of gear. Warren Buffet said, "This is a class war, but mine, the rich, is the one that's winning." Since the BNG, of course, we are going to fight this battle for the sake of Galicia, for the people's classes, for the public services and for the people who defend every day the dignity of a civil service as mistreated as necessary to build a more just country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u26	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good day to those who accompany us today, to the representatives of the workers and the public employees. We, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, will support the consideration of this bill put forward by the En Marea Group because it essentially coincides with many of the initiatives which have been presented since the beginning of this X legislation since our parliamentary group. Already in autumn 2016, on the occasion of the 2017 Budget Debate, and from there, with the interpellations that we presented both to the Councillor of Fairy, and subsequent public employment motions, one of the fundamental axes of our demands — I believe that the demands of all the political groups of the opposition, of course, and of all the public workers in Galicia, were precisely the derogation of Law 1/2012, of a temporary nature. What happens is that we already know that for the People's Party, in this case at least temporality is too indeterminate a legal concept. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this law, as you know perfectly, was born subject to a resolute condition. This law can say it is programmed — or programmed — for its own self-destruction. In more technological terms, it's a law of obsolescence programmed. Just as bad technology — but sometimes good technology — with programmed expiry abuses users and consumers, with Law 1/2012, with its vigil, precisely Mr. Feijóo's Government is abusing more than 85,000 self-employed public employees. This product — following the technological simile — has ended its useful life and is absolutely obsolete. On the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and I believe that from the political groups of this House's opposition, we have been presenting a whole series of initiatives — as well as the rapporteur for this legislative initiative — for the necessary recovery of the working conditions of self-employed public employees, for the restoration of collective bargaining and of the whole framework of labour relations which Mr Feijóo and the Government of course, Mr Rajoy have been systematically energizing since 2012. We are presenting initiatives calling for the re-establishment of the General Public Employee Negotiation Bureau to be able to carry forward the cocoaed processes of operation, internal promotion and the new stabilization agreements, which we will see where they come from. Because, let's remember — by setting an example — that the functionalization processes — as well as the representatives of the workers included in that Action Act for 2017 — are still out of calendar and are still not starting. Within this whole package of recovery of autonomous public services, because — I insist and insist all — the recovery of self-employment is to try to recover the quality of public services in our country, one of the fundamental measures that must accompany the derogation of this Law 1/2012 is precisely the restoration of the pay cut that during the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Mr Feijóo fixed, far above all the public administrations in our country. That is indeed, as was said at the beginning, without any noise, without any kind of shame, last year, in the 2017 budgets, Mr Feijóo — and the whole of the Greek Government — allowed the luxury of raising wages by 7%. I think it's a certain immorality, by the way. By way of derogation from Law 1/2012, there are clearly four aspects that we all demand to recover the situation of the autonomic public sector. It can't be that they continue to penalize disease situations, temporary disability situations. The Social Action Fund programs cannot be played out of play. We need to get back to the terms in which the work day was established in self-employment. And, in a very special way, we must end the unilateral suspension by the Galician Council of certain provisions of the V Single Collective Convention of Self-Employment Staff, which, with the unilateral suspension of Article 19, are striking in a very special way so many women who are working, for example, in the Social Policy Council. [[Applause]] I am not going to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, again — as we have said so many times — that Law 1/2012 precisely dynamized all collective bargaining processes in the field of self-government. We are not going to tell them again — as we say on occasion — that this is the result of strategically planned policies to undermine public services. And you know very well when faced with the Troika the commitment of the National Reform Plan was precisely to reduce the public sector size of our country by 20%, creating new areas of possible privatization. However, all these arguments are based on its basis since the 2017 autonomous budgets, and above all the 2018 budgets, as set out in its explanatory statement and all the macroeconomic presentation data, speak of the necessary recovery of the quality of public services, systematically cut by the People's Party in Galicia for five years. And that recovery of the quality of public services goes through the recovery of the rights and working conditions of the 85,000 public employees, the recovery of the framework of labour relations and the recovery of all collective bargaining processes. The two economic indicators that we have already said so many times, but by 2018 they are those that mark the life of the Law itself 1/2012, they are clear to you, they are clear to everyone. The actual gross domestic product data from Galicia or primary savings data — which are the two indicators to which the provisions of Law 1/2012 are subject — have been in force for three years, giving rise to positive data. If this is the case, if the law had to be reviewed at the age of two, we've been six years without the People's Party precisely fulfilling its own law. There is no excuse on the part of the People's Party, there is no excuse on the part of Mr Feijóo, there is no excuse on the part of the councillor of the Fair and the Public Service to promote the immediate derogation of this law which massacres autonomous public services because he is unable to return the cut-off rights and demands with so much sacrifice — recalling President Feijóo's words — to the self-employed public servants. And as we have also pointed out on one occasion, the result of these popular policies against public services is one of the data we all know and are published in various statistical fields. The timeliness of what we are talking about, more than 14% in autonomic public employment, is more than 20% in autonomic public health. From 2010 to 2015, from 10,000 temporary contracts to 15,000, the number of temporary contracts doubled. Galicia was — according to official data — the fifth autonomous community — and we will always remember — in the destruction of employment from 2010 to 2016. And why not talk about the rate of temporality at the public administration assembly in Galicia? So, 1 out of every 4 public employees is of a temporary nature, and in addition to the problem that over the next 10 years 50,000 public employees in Galicia will retire, by not, of course, from the transvasion of public employment to private employment in the field of basic public services such as health or education. They are all data that we have already presented in different interpelerations to the councillor of Fairy, and in the subsequent motions, which have been systematically rejected by the People's Party. Mr Feijóo, Mr. Councillor of Fairy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, more than 33,000 non-university teachers, more than 34,000 public health employees, Sergas, more than 15,000 self-government employees, more than 5,000 teachers and researchers from the three Greek universities or more than 2,500 judicial officials on strike claim their rights. And the problem that officials of justice are presenting, if they know the dimensions of an iceberg, is precisely the tip of that iceberg; what's below, that 90% that's below the water, is the set of autonomous public employment, which is not waiting, but demanding, for the derogation of this law. If they really — as they claim in many statements and even in budgetary texts — are committed to quality public services, they are re-establishing precisely that social contract that they broke up in 2012 and return the public service resources that stabilize society, also the Greek society, with parameters of equality. I'd say goodbye to a technological simile that we all use a lot: stop taking autophotos or selfies and look beyond a virtual reality to the very reality of people. They finally comply with their own Law 1/2012 and therefore immediately repeal this regulation which destroys public services in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u28	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Set up the En Marea group to derogate from plan to Law 1/2012, in order to re-enforce suspended precepts. And then, in the following paragraph, add an additional provision stating that this derogation affects the whole of the law, except for the intended addition of the ex-high office within the meaning of Article 4.3. They say #3, it's a mistake, it's Article 4.3. Your position in this case, Mrs. Solla, is like the composition of the tides and their postulates, is mutant, because they asked here one year ago for the full derogation from Law 1/2012 and completely reintroduce the V Collective Convention. They wanted to restore only the V collective agreement but, however, they asked for a derogation from the whole law, when 8 articles which have only one law were aimed at suspending the provisions of the V treaty. And now they propose the total derogation from the law, but in the next paragraph, as I have just said, they introduce an additional provision that says: the whole law minus the part related to the plus of the former high charges. Of course, I wouldn't have been so complicated in drafting these bills, because if you want to derogate everything except for the extra article of the former high office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u30	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Moreira, excuse me a moment. I ask our guests to be accompanied by the services of the House. They have to leave the hemicycle. [[Applause]] House services, please help our guests to leave the Chamber. [[Pause.]] Go on whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. He said we wouldn't have been so complicated about how to draft this bill, because by the way, they want to deny everything except the article of the plus of the former high charges would be enough. But the truth is, you've changed a lot about a year ago. Now they are no longer against the whole law, but they are against the whole law less than the suspension of the plus of the former high charges. Of course, they realized that this law had something they liked, that it was that I was suspending the plus to the former senior executives at the Galician board. I understand it, of course, because going to an assembly of ordinary people to defend that the former high offices continue to charge an extra, it's hard; it's hard to find a confluence space, because probably the spokesperson who had defended that, really... or would confuse directly to the exit door of the assembly. So I think something positive comes from this law. But that's right, the People's Party in that law eliminated the possibility that the former high office, after the seal, will continue to charge an extra. And it was a government of the People's Party. I don't know if you will change your position within a month and come with a new proposal, excluding or saving from the derogation some other article. But, Mrs. Solla, do you have any stable criteria about what they want? Do you think anyone can take them seriously if they change their criteria every month with respect to the Law of 2012? This law, as stated in its explanatory statement, was dictated in an exceptional situation, in which it was not permissible to maintain sections derived from the application of the legal-work regime, and it was necessary to suspend the validity of certain articles of the V Convention for the staff of the Galician Union, precisely those which until then covered the realization of a workday significantly below that set out in the Royal Decree 20/2011, which established that the ordinary working day of all employees of the Union must have a weekly average of not less than 37 hours and 30 minutes. And this decision I think it was right, because the Constitutional Court itself annulled the legislation of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, and the Supreme Court annulled the rules of the Basque Country, which also established a 35-hour day. The purpose of this law was to contribute to meeting the need to reduce the public deficit, to get what? To achieve a balanced situation without undermining the provision of essential public services. And for that, it was necessary to adopt a series of extraordinary, urgent and temporary measures in the matter of the containment of staff costs that were materialized with the adoption of this law. But in practice a lot of things have been recovered. During 2016 the total of the 2012 extra was recovered. Also in 2016 the extra 2013 was returned. In 2017 all public employees of the Union, of the three universities, and the staff of the concerted education, received the specific complement in their extraordinary wages. This was a measure agreed with trade union organizations. And the BNG representative said the crisis was over. I suppose for the BNG it ended the crisis, because there in Pontevedra they are dedicated to traveling to Hong Kong, Dubai, Korea, and everything leaving an important legacy, turning Pontevedra into the capital of unemployment throughout Galicia, with the highest rate of unemployment. I suppose for you the crisis is over, because they are also dedicated to subsidising and financing Greek nationalism: trade union organizations of the BNG, youth organizations of the BNG, friends of the BNG, regional officials of the BNG. [[Applause]] There's nothing there for the BNG. For them it seems that the crisis is over. And yet, although the Organic Budget Act for 2016 and 2017 maintained the suspension of Article 19, the fact is that in 2016 and onwards many issues have been recovered, for example, by creating new squares in the categories and centres with the highest workload. But we're going to the content of the law. The aspects that regulate this law are: First, when it comes to the provision for temporary incapacity contained in our law, it has already been regulated on a basic basis by the State through Royal Decree Law 20/2012. And Galicia recognises, therefore, the maximum that state legislation allows. The social security benefits of staff members remained and aid of greater social value was maintained. Exactly those who support families who live with people with disabilities. Even annual aid is maintained which per beneficiary can reach up to EUR 2,160. On the working day, this issue was regulated by this law in 37.5 hours a week, and it was also regulated in the same way in the state basic legislation. I have already commented on the judicial and Constitutional Court statements in this regard, which say that an autonomous community cannot reduce the working day because it is a basic competence of the State. As for the regulation which covers the V Labour Convention, in which certain paragraphs were suspended, as they look at, as regards Article 19, which regulates the travel and rest arrangements of this collective, this issue is already guaranteed and standardized by the organisation of staff shifts through two measures. First, a strong job creation by 2016, of 155 new places for social policy centres. Secondly, the accommodation of the posters to reduce both the consecutive days of work by day and also by night, in addition to increasing rest on Saturdays and Sundays, in order to also improve the chances of reconciling personal and professional life. And management measures make it possible to overcome the framework established in this law, because they allowed, first, the possibility of enjoying the days of personal affairs that they request without being conditioned by service needs. Secondly, an important agreement has been reached with the trade union organizations for the progressive implementation of an offer for the operationalization of social policy workers. Another point of this law. This law has enabled a paid ordination of the executive staff, and this ordination has allowed, among other things, that no director of the Galician board may have a higher salary than the president of the board. And you want to override this. You want there to be managers... this has to explain to you, Mrs. Solla. You, by way of this derogation, want leadership of the Galician Union to gain more than the President of the Union. This is what he defends in Marea. On the other hand, the requirements and procedures for granting or derogating the extension of the stay in the active service are laid down. This is a matter where, by the way, the Socialist Party agrees not to abolish, even if it is regulated in another law. Another issue — the last one — is the provision of posts and mobility, which the Socialist Party does not agree to abolish either. So these are, the ones I will list, the 7 measures that want to derogate the tides of Podemos from the 8 that collect the Law 1/2012. And what you don't want to do is you're referring to the suspension of the bonus of the former high charges. In short, of the 8 measures brought by law, one In Marea wants to maintain; 3 are already regulated by basic state regulations; 2 are exceeded in practice; and 2 others even the Socialist Party agrees that they are maintained. We have come to ask ourselves, really, whether you are aware of the content of the rule that you want to derogate and the consequences that this would bring. We are therefore not going to support this initiative which seeks to circumvent a rule that has enabled it to cope with the economic crisis and reduce the public deficit to achieve a balanced situation without undermining the provision of essential public services. And finally, Mrs. Solla, the Government of Galician Union did not raise its salary, the increase in the salary of Galician Union, of the Government, was zero. The only thing that was done was to recover, according to a pact, just as they were recovering the employees' rights and extra payments, but it was not lifted. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'll give you a date. The vice president of the Bipartite, that government of 2009, paid EUR 15,000 more a year than the current vice president, EUR 15,000 more! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know how much it is? 20%. 20 per cent less now charges the Vice-President of Galician Union than the Vice-President of Galician Union. And the whole government today, in 2018, charges less than the two-party government charged in 2009. That's the reality. Where's the pay raise, Mrs. Solla? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, what is not ethical, Mrs Solla, what you have to explain, is how a Member or a Member requests that the time that is here in Parliament should count on him to be on a public administration recruitment list. That's the ethics you're defending, because you'll have to explain it. [[Murmurs.]] I don't think the Greeks are interested in that kind of ethics, Mrs. Solla. The Greeks made a huge sacrifice, the officials made a huge sacrifice, and little by little they are recognizing them and recovering rights that were suspended at their own time. But if you want to break this law, you really explain the consequences that this will have. We are not going to support a derogation which, of course, Galicia does not share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u32	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u33	Thank you, President. To move this could not have gone up, really, because the truth is it's quite regrettable... It's not a joke, Mrs. Prado... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u34	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u35	Oh, good. I didn't hear well. It is quite customary to listen to it during the speeches of the other Members, interrupting as in the previous plenary session. Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party, it seems that the rise to the president, the vice president, the advisors and advisers is not rising, but to the workers and the workers themselves. The misery you vote for them, which is nothing to go up, because it's the return of what they've previously been removed, it's not going up; for presidents, for vice presidents, for councillors, about 7% more. Of course, you're worried that someone can charge more than the president. But don't worry so much, because you're already taking care of everyone, Mr. Rueda too, the rest of the advisors and advisors over 7% up. And in the meantime, 14% less payroll for employees and public employees. You're not ashamed and come here to transfer that those we don't have seriously are the others. It's unfortunate to hear your intervention. I have to remind you that nothing has been returned to them at all, that the rights that have been recovered were due to their fight and, of course, rights that were previously cut; that the extra payments between 2013 and 2016 have not been returned and you owe an average of 3,000 euros to every public employee in all sections of the public employment. I don't know if you know or go up here without preparing the intervention, as it seemed to understand by the phrases you spoke in this gallery. I think you have not understood any of the proposals you have brought against the opposition for these six years, I think you should read them and review them, Mr. And I'm serious about it, because every time we bring a proposal, it doesn't matter whether the additional provision is understood or not, you don't have any kind of justification and you have to mess with some opposition group, you have to talk about things that are not understood in the proposal. He didn't talk about any economic conditions that would justify that rule for you. Because I remind you, and I told you in the first intervention, that the rule itself speaks of obligation, legal obligation to review two years later the conditions that led to the adoption of it by the Council of Galicia. Sir, we don't want to talk about that. You obey the laws when they like them and when they don't. When it's to cut salaries to public employees, it's all right. And so we have the difficulty that we have, the conflict that we have, that you are the ones that generate that conflict. By the way, of course, Justice's money also goes to pay for all the judgments that you constantly lose to public employees, because they don't do their job well. That's where the funds go. [[Applause]] The rest for the workers and the workers is precarious, sir. And it's a shame six years later you keep the cuts. Of course, you don't have those problems of reconciling family and work life, I don't have them either, I'm a Member just like you, but the workers and the workers do, and it's not true that they returned. Quietness, quietness, you should be more concerned about public employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u36	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u37	They should be more concerned about public employment. And those people who were there — who just had to leave the rostrum — have been holding up six years of cuts while the others raise their salaries and as the investment in private grows. How will you not be angry and angry? How will there not be protests in Justice when you are really in a precarious situation with respect to other autonomous communities? Do you think we're going to believe that lie about the Galician board offering, which is really a third of the reality they offer?, do you think we're going to assume that division of the working class that you propose, trying to divide by saying that those who protest and protest and strike are privileged? That's what you'd be interested in. But there's unity here in general, except for you. It's only you who defend to keep cutting the workers and the workers, even if you say and even if you take the figures that indicate 3% growth in the gross domestic product. There's not a single element justifying maintaining a rule, which is also illegal, because they haven't reviewed it for four years, as indicated by their own law. So, of course, we'll have to re-registrate the laws that are needed because I think the public employees don't deserve to make the effort that you asked them to do, that they've demanded them and that they've been imposed on them and that the others continue to get benefits, as long as they continue to suffer the prejudices of the cuts. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of the bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We shall vote on this legislative text. Close the doors, please. We therefore vote to take this legislative text into consideration. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of En Marea, for the derogation from Law 1/2012 of 29 February, of temporary measures in certain public employment matters of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This legislative text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u39	Open the doors, please. Third point on the agenda, full appearances. In this case, Mr. Social Policy Counsellor. Opinion of the Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, on measures to protect children in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u40	To make this appearance, Mr. José Manuel Rey Varela has the floor of the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On my own request to bring this Parliament a very sensitive subject, but from our point of view it is very important for Galicia. Our commitment is to continue to preserve the rights of children and children, to pay particular attention to those who suffer or may suffer from situations of social deprivation or disprotection. And not because of their quantitative importance, but because of their qualitative importance, let us therefore, especially those who need greater support from the administration, greater support from the whole of society. The Government of Galicia will continue to bet on implementing and promoting actions to treat minors in the hands of social agents, with the aim of improving the lives of our children and our children, because devoting more resources and efforts to children and adolescents is the best decision we can make, since we are investing in the future of our society. Child disprotection is one of the most serious social problems affecting children. It is up to the Council of Galicia to protect those found in the territory of the autonomous community and to implement the measures imposed by juvenile judges. I'll begin this inquiry into the area of protection for minors. This protection is carried out through prevention, detection and repair when risk situations and disappearance are believed. Each year they are opened in the specialized services to protect children in Galicia more than 1,000 files for possible child protection. The most frequent cause of openness consists of a set of unfavorable circumstances affecting the child's well-being and encompassing themselves under the common designation of socio-family problem. Today, as a result of these files that are opened annually and of the files that we are collecting year after year, we have in Galicia 2,472 children who are under the protection system of the Galician Union, from which they are in residential centres 1,072 and others 1,357 are under the care of families, either of their own families, which is called extended families, or of alien families who are willing to participate in this system of protection of our society. In addition, 43 children, children and adolescents are under the protective formula for adoption. In view of this reality, public authorities have been entrusted with actions to protect families legally, socially and economically, and in particular children and adolescents. This is indicated in Article 39 of the 1978 Spanish Constitution. Child care has improved in a very important way in recent years. The system of child protection, which has been marked by beneficial and helpful attitudes and conceptions, evolves fortunately towards a system based on concepts such as social justice, presiding over a philosophy based on aid, support and professional responsibility. Faced with traditional, markedly intrusive actions, intervention to deprotect the child is essentially based on providing families with the necessary support to promote the child's maintenance in their family environment of origin. Action aimed at preventing possible deprotection situations is a priority in the comprehensive care of children and adolescents. In this sense, the public authorities must bring to the parents all the resources that may be necessary to meet their responsibilities of raising and educating their children. Preventive actions must be addressed from the different public areas which may affect the interests of minors and their families, covering the educational, social, health, housing and communication fields. In this area of prevention, I would like to stress that the Galician Union was the first autonomous community to explicitly adhere to the prevention campaign for sexual violence against children, 1 out of every 5, through an institutional statement in 2014. We are aware that some of the most serious forms of sexual abuse in children are not detected when occurring in the privacy of homes, so we believe that awareness-raising and dissemination of educational guidelines is one of the best ways to approach the protection of minors against this type of conduct. In this line, since May 2017 — May of last year — we are developing an eminently digital campaign aimed at preventing and detecting sexual abuse in minors. The campaign is called 37Mil Smiles, and within it we are developing the "Let's Light Up" initiative, precisely as I told you, in search of that possible abuse that is not hidden in the homes. Also very important are the lines of collaboration that we have with the Secretary-General of Equality on issues such as the prevention of violence and gender among minors and sexual assault on minors. We have recently launched the Liana intervention units, for minor victims of sexual abuse, in collaboration with the Children's Foundation. The General Secretariat of Equality complements this measure by covering women who have suffered sexual assault. When preventive measures fail or are not sufficient, there is a situation of deprotection. A situation of deprotection which, as I told you, unfortunately also exists in Galicia and affects hundreds of children. The Board has available to assist them from the Younger Technical Teams, who are responsible for the evaluation and intervention of those children who are at risk and in a situation of helplessness. These teams are responsible for proposing protection measures, guardianship measures or guardianship measures, as well as for administering programmes and looking for the appropriate needs of children, existing resources, precisely to deal with these situations. The actions of the Galician Council of Galicia, as could not be otherwise otherwise, are adjusted to the important policy changes introduced at the state level in recent times: at the beginning of the child's superior interest, the child's right to be heard in the procedures affecting him, as could not be otherwise possible, is adjusted by the important policy changes introduced at the state level: at the beginning of the child's superior interest, the child's right to be heard in the proceedings affecting him, whether they are more than twelve years old or have enough maturity; the duties of children and children, who are also introduced to the new legislation; the presumption of the child's superior minority in cases where the child's or the child's age is not known with certainty, the child's right to be heard in the proceedings affecting him, the child's right to be heard in the procedures affecting him, whether the child or the child is affected by the child's best age of the child or the child, whether the child's age of the child is over twelve months, to be taken by the child's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's child's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children' rights and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters and daughters' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children' children's children' children' children' children's right to be as victims to be as victims to be as victims to be as victims to be as victims for the right to be as victims for the right to be victims to be victims to be victims to be victims of violence to be to be to be taken to be as as as as as they should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should In order to agree on the reintegration of the child into his or her family of origin, it will not be enough for the circumstances to improve it, setting the very important priority of family reception in the face of residential reception, as it has already collected also the Greek legislation. Priority which, in addition to allowing me to do so, we strengthen in those children and children up to the age of six, regulating for the first time the Statute of the host family — i.e. the set of rights and duties of the host family — by regulating the placement in juvenile centres with behavioural disorders and by requiring prior information and training to opt for national and international adoption. Therefore, a whole set of legislative means that demonstrate that the different public authorities and the different parliaments have set their focus, precisely in this area of children and children, which, of course, we have to accompany from the Administration, in this case from governments, through four major action groups: detection actions, reception programmes, adoption programmes and support programmes. As for detection programs, his figure — as I said above — is based on the Younger Technical Teams, who work on their own motu, who work on the initiative of the social services of the municipalities, who work on the initiative of school centres, police health centers, prosecutors, judges, through complaints from individuals or minors, or their families. I would like to highlight the children's help line, the 116 111 telephone line, free of charge and operational for the twenty-four hours of the day, the 300 sixty-five days of the year. It provides immediate attention to urgent situations, facilitates children a way of support and listens to their concerns and needs. It is addressed to all those who are aware of cases of child abuse or who seek information on resources and advice on issues relating to the rights of children, of which we are talking today in this Parliament. Since 2012 the phone has been unique throughout Europe, 116 111, and over the past year it has closed with a total of 1,308 calls. Secondly, as a control mechanism, as a complaint mechanism, the Unified Child Abuse Registry, or RUMI. Despite progress in raising awareness of the problem of child abuse, there are still many more cases of hidden ill-treatment, and we are very aware of this situation. Sometimes they tend to think that there is only bad treatment when there is evidence of physical aggression, while they remain important to many other behaviors and situations that may involve deprivation of rights and the child's well-being and which, above all, endanger their development. Not to be expected to have certain evidence of the ill-treatment to report it, a simple suspicion must be sufficient to make it known to the child care services. It is essential that a common effort be made to detect and notify the whole situation of child abuse, as the only way to prevent it from becoming chronicated and that its consequences, in addition, become permanent. For this purpose, this register — the Unified Registry of Child Abuse — is a notification device available to professionals in the educational and police field, which is accessed through a website to denounce any suspicion of ill-treatment. Suspect communications are immediately received in the Younger Technical Teams, from the corresponding territorial head, which stimulates communication to allow a proposal for intervention. Now we're still working to increase access to this record, more than 2,000 police and educational professionals have access to this application. As for reception programs, a second block of action that I would like to highlight in this audience. The reception, as you know, consists of the integration of the child or the child into a new family, into a welcoming family, when it comes to family hospitality. We want — and I take advantage of this — to give them the greatest visibility and the greatest importance to reception programmes. I would therefore like to thank the families who already participate in these programs for their generous hospitality to children who have a special moment of need. I would like to thank — and I would also like to request this through the forum which this Parliament is offering us — and to promote this programme so that other families who do not know the Hospitality Programme can join this programme precisely. We have a goal, a goal marked in the legislation, of course, that is to favor what he told them it was the family reception about residential accommodation, and for that they are essential families. New families that may have, let us say, very important support to conquer this goal in which we are immersed in the hands of social entities in Galicia. At this point, we have a traveling exhibition in the 7 major cities of Galicia with the Red Cross to get to know, precisely, this accompaniment program. Because if we want Galicia to be a good place to be a child, we have to make sure that all children can have a family. The Galician Union is strongly supporting those families who decide to host children at risk. For this reason, we have decided to provide for this budget of EUR 1 million in 2018 plus the budget intended to pay, precisely, those families for the costs of this new reception situation. Of course, no one becomes a welcoming family for public resources, but precisely we have to generate those conditions so that there is no expense for the family either because of having to accommodate. This allows us to continue giving priority to family reception in the face of residential reception. At the moment, the data are positive, the data is that of the total number of children who are welcomed to the protection systems of the Galician Union, 56% of them are in families; therefore, we have a prevalence of family welcome on reception in juvenile centres. What we would like to do is to continue working — as I say — with the hand of very specialized social entities in this field, but with the hand of the whole of society to keep increasing that percentage, because that is our goal. With regard to the second type of reception, residential accommodation is intended to pay attention to those minors who, because of different socio-family circumstances, need to be temporarily separated from their family nucleus, for whom, in some cases — and must be said — no other kind of resources are feasible, at the trial of the Younger Technical Teams. The Social Policy Council has 4 centres managed by its own means, and with 69 other centres all of them coordinated with social initiative entities, which account for a total of 1,170 squares in Galicia. In 2018 we will also increase the investment for the operation of these centres, to achieve a global investment of €32.2 million, with a budgetary increase that was absolutely necessary of 13%, which will enable us to provide a higher level of quality, precisely, in those centres for children who need special attention, and that will allow us to open a new and essential centre in the city of Ourense, and I am referring to the Montealegre centre. Finally, to point out that in order to achieve an integral improvement in the attention of the children who are in the centres, as a novelty of 2017, we have created an investment aid line, from which practically all the centers we have in our community, amounting to EUR 625,000, that this year we will repeat, because we want the facilities where these children are and those children to be prime facilities. Thirdly, I would like to refer in this speech to the adoption processes. The Galician Union promotes the adoption of a minor, the Union promotes it, but these procedures are dictated by judges when, when it assesses their situation and circumstances, it finds the impossibility of permanent residence in their family of origin, responds to their interest and is the most appropriate measure to meet their needs. I would also like to point out that adoption processes are essentially the protection of the child or the child, that is the philosophy of fundamental action of adoption processes. It's about the boy finding the best place to be, the trial of the technical teams involved in this procedure and from the judicial point of view. The Council manages a special adoption programme, in which I would like to stop, especially in this intervention, such as in reception, for those cases where adoption is more difficult; it is more difficult to deal with groups of brothers, minors with disabilities or with disabilities. Through this programme, interested families are sought from those who are given additional training and are given greater support for the integration of the child or the child. On the other hand, the Social Policy Council launched in 2017 a programme of preparation, support and support for adoptive families in collaboration with the Manaia Association, which is delivering magnificent results. Since 2015 the Council also organizes, in collaboration with the Faiben Foundation, a training for families waiting for adoption, since it is essential that the Council is prepared with the necessary knowledge and strategies to face the challenge of creating a new family, which is aware of the situations that may be presented to them, of the different stages that it will go through, of the resources it can come to, etc. One of the factors that undoubtedly helps to ensure success in the adoption process is continuous training and family support, both from the emotional, strategic and educational point of view. Therefore, the fact that families waiting for adoption can count on spaces and forums to follow and sink into the adoption project is key to acquiring the skills and knowledge needed for decision-making. Both in the case of national adoptions and in the case of international adoptions — and I will also devote a few minutes of this intervention — the Council has a very complete tool, which is the Galego Portal of Adoptions, which provides up-to-date, practical and interactive information to both the people interested in adopting and those who are or have already completed the process, requirements and documentation necessary, special adoptions, interactive guides to know where to adopt, with a success of very important participation. This portal had a total of 138,900 consultations. I said I was going to stop in international adoptions, because last year, as a result of decisions taken by sovereign states, lines of international adoption were closed that were open. As I said, adoption is the welfare of the child, and therefore from the Council we will always respect the decisions of sovereign countries, the decisions of the Spanish State that correspond through the Directorate-General for the Family of the Government of Spain; we will therefore prioritize the closure of international adoption processes by other countries and encourage at this time, as I highlighted in this speech, the reception programmes and special adoption programmes. In 2018, in any case to have the overall data, they constituted a total of 43 national adoptions and 52 international adoptions in Galicia. Fourthly, I'd like to tell you about our support programs. The adoption of legal protection measures, such as guardianship or guardianship, are totally insufficient if they are not accompanied by intervention resources intended to renew the circumstances that motivated family separation and to prepare the child and his family for their socio-worker integration. I would like to highlight the family intervention programmes with a double objective: to achieve the family integration of minors who have been separated from their families because they are in a state of deprotection and to avoid family separation and the foreseeable hospitalization of minors who offer obvious risk indicators of deprotection. The program, which does not stop growing — and I have to say that it does not stop growing unfortunately — served 191 families and 326 minors in the year just ended. Secondly, the Program for the Evaluation and Treatment of Children at Risk or Disappearance, addressed to children and children and adolescents who show emotional imbalances and severe behaviours caused or related to some type of severe difficulty or chronicled in living within their family of origin. Treatment not only includes minors, but it may be recommended that members of the family of origin participate in those who have an important bond, but may also be members of the foster family or even educators of the center where they live. And in 2017 this program served a total of 225 cases in Galicia. Thirdly, socio-educational programmes. Join two initiatives: In the Street and Escort. The In Street initiative to promote social integration processes in families and the second programme focused on minors in residential or daycare arrangements that intervene in the areas of leisure or leisure activities and educational support, and benefited from these two programmes 250 minors in 2017. Fourthly, the Programme for Socio-Working Insertion Mentor. Considered a good European practice, she works in the social and labour integration of girls and boys aged sixteen and under twenty-one, which exceptionally, and as a single case in Galicia, can reach the age of twenty-five, in case it is necessary to extend it to that age to ensure that there is no break between the moment of protection which the Council of Social Policy exercises in Galicia, and the time when the child or the child — well, in this case the boy or the girl — reaches the age of majority. I want to highlight the magnificent functioning of this program, which is spread out in the 7 cities of Galicia, of which 519 young people and girls have benefited in 2017, and of which 81 resided in the homes that this program makes available to these boys. Fifthly — as a fifth resort — the Family Meeting Points. A service that guarantees the safety and well-being of children and facilitates compliance with the visit regime, which has increased considerably in recent times. In 2017, the Family Meeting Points of the Social Policy Council held 18.725 exchanges, 3,529 guarded visits and 4,867 supervised visits. Sixth, the Prenatal and Perinatal Care Programme for families in situations of social difficulty. The object of the program is to intervene in those situations where the existence of an prenatal risk is worth promoting an experience of healthy care and maternity. The prenatal risk situation is considered for the first time in the child protection legislation, through these regulatory changes that he told them at the beginning of this intervention. The Galician Union has already taken over this new regulation and is in the process of precisely this Prenatal and Perinatal Care Programme, already effectively serving 18 families in 2017, in particular, in a pilotage that we are developing in Santiago de Compostela. And finally, I wanted to tell you about the execution of judicial measures module, given that the second major area of competition of the Council for minors is the execution of the measures imposed by juvenile judges. The law establishes a wide range of measures applicable from the penal and educational perspective, both private and non-custodial, which judges can impose on juveniles who commit a crime. As far as measures of deprivation of liberty are concerned, we currently have three centres in the Council: in Pontevedra, the Centre Avelino Montero; in Coruña, the Centre Concepción Arenal; and in Ourense, the Centre Monteledo. Even so, the Autonomic Administration has a specific care centre in Ourense province, the Montefiz Centre, which performs the implementation of therapeutic hospitalization measures for children with special situations due to changes in conduct and additions. The Council therefore has a number of squares that are growing at this time to address these measures of a special nature. These centres carried out during 2016 a total of 211 boarding measures that affected 153 minors. They are currently living in these specific centres 75 minors. In these boarding centres, an integral educational programme is developed, which addresses aspects such as social competition, values education, drug prevention, the promotion of equality between men and women and the prevention of gender violence, among other strategic issues. Even so, in order to ensure the right of minors admitted to adequate training, bakery, horticultural and mechanical activities are carried out in the various centres, facilitating their recruitment into workshops, accompanying the staff of the centres. Over the past year, a total of 132 children benefited from the work of this work programme, 173 training activities were developed, 14 young people and girls were recruited within the workshops of the centres and 28 practiced in companies, 17 of them paid. On the other hand, this council also carries out non-custodial measures, simply supervised freedom, day-to-day assistance. To this end, it is the collaboration of entities that carry out the execution of these measures in each province in the open-source educational intervention centres, or more known by the CISG. There is currently an ICEMA per province. The CIEMA de Pontevedra has two day centre equipments in Vigo and Pontevedra, and the CIEMA da Coruña has a day centre located in the city of Coruña and other attention devices in Santiago and Ferrol for the execution of the measures of open environment in these localities. The number of medium-open measures that were implemented during 2017 was 715, which affected 521 minors. Within the catalogue of legal measures which are open to the public, the law also includes benefits for the benefit of the community. Last year a total of 50 such measures were executed and collaborated with this board in its execution a total of 40 public and private entities. The range of social activities they are developing is very broad, highlighting support and support for people with disabilities, support for older people, dependent people, people with mobility problems, or collaboration with professionals and volunteers in the distribution of clothing, food and collaboration in cleaning and cleaning of public spaces. Even so, a protocol of collaboration with Fegamp is in force for the collaboration of the municipalities in the execution of these legal relief measures for the benefit of the community. At present a total of 73 municipalities have joined the protocol and cooperate in the execution of these measures. And, moreover, the Council is developing a program that allows the execution of the measure of coexistence with another person, family or educational group, counting on individuals or families working with it. It's the Convive Program, which allows the child to provide a different environment from his own, in which his basic and educational experiences are developed. This program started at the end of 2017 in the province of Coruña, and I want to announce that we will extend it to Pontevedra in 2018. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the well-being of our children and our children must include those children who need special attention from the Self-Government and special attention from society. There's our responsibility in parliaments, legislating and drawing attention to governments when they fail to fulfil this supreme function granted by legislation. We are undoubtedly talking about complex situations, complex and delicate situations of which we can also speak in this Parliament, actions in which we must intervene with great sensitivity and always, as I said to them, ensure that the rights of the child or the rights of the child are the only priority. To guarantee them a better present and a better future will be a work for all of us, a work in which we put all our efforts, in which our technical teams with great professionals also put all their efforts every one of the 300 sixty-five days of the year, but in which, as always, more economic resources and initiatives are needed, which is why we bring this matter to this Parliament for children, children and children. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u42	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups have the floor. [[Pause.]] On behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u43	Good morning to all and to all. And welcome also the students who are upstairs on the bench, precisely with a matter that has a lot to do with their present and their future. The first thing I'd say, Counselor, is that I don't know why you don't send that data that you're giving in appearances two, three or four days ago directly to parliamentary groups. Also, more than anything, to be able to make that composition of place that we have to do now in five minutes with a little bit more foresight, and also with the possibility of being able to counter the numbers that you're giving right now. Regardless of that — which I leave as a close one — I believe that all the political forces we are in this chamber and the Council itself with which the vulnerability of children and adolescents is marked by an economic situation and material living conditions of families, by impoverishment, precariousness, by economic difficulties, unemployment, social exclusion or the risk of suffering, or even the situations of marginality; but also by violence, be this within a society that in many cases naturality and normalization, whether — I mean — within the families themselves in the intra-family or between equal. From the BNG we started a premise regarding the policy of child protection and intervention in adolescence, and it is that the patterns of behavior, patterns of conduct and habits manifested by children and adolescent people reflect what we acquire from society and not just from the family. We think we have to move forward. You said we moved from a perspective of social justice assistance; we also need to move forward in overcoming that perspective where the family is situated as a nuclear element of society, because I already say that the patterns of behavior, models of conduct and even the vulnerable situations of childhood and adolescence are marked, to a large extent, so we acquire as society in our whole. In this sense, in our group we want to make a series of considerations about some of the issues that you have now put on the table and the programmes and measures that are developing from Social Policy in the field of child protection and intervention in adolescence, and in this sense I will try to go more generally to the most specific. We believe from the BNG that there is a lack of comprehensive and strategic planning. It explains, the measures geared towards intervention and protection of children and adolescents in recent years in this revolutionary world, as is the family policy of the Union. And I'm telling you this because -- and I think it's going to coincide with us -- it's not the same thing about tax incentives for birth promotion, about programs for intervention with minors protected by the board, for example, who are in detention closed by legal order. In this sense, all the plans that existed were getting out of hand, out of date, because the latter was approved in 2007 and ended in 2010, eight years ago. The plans that have been approved later on are dealing like in a basket of tailors that entire family policy of the Union — and not specifically, strategically — with those issues that relate to the protection of children and intervention in adolescence. It might seem or might believe that it's just a question of form, but it's not, an integral planning pattern, target brand, strategy brand, intervention formulae and priorities, starting from a concrete analysis and diagnosis. It coordinates resources, actions and institutions in an area such as care and protection for children and adolescents, in which, in addition to — in its intervention, it was clear — most of the service is provided by entities in the third sector. In July of last year, in the journal of Social Education, an article was published in which, based on data supplied by the Galician Union itself, 82% of public resources were managed by private entities. Generally — I say — they are from the third sector, they are NGOs, foundations, those programmes and measures aimed at the protection of children or intervention in adolescence, such as the Children's Foundation, you mentioned it — Igaxes3, Red Cross, San Rosendo Foundation, Casa Caridad Foundation. Even the Deputy of Pontevedra, a Member of Parliament, without having competence in the protection of minors or education, manages a juvenile centre like Prince Felipe. We do not want today, Mr Counsellor — to take a little bit of fear from above too — to open the debate on direct or indirect management of public services, not today, but rather that what we want is to focus on the need to develop in an integral way, from a planned, coordinated perspective and with unified patterns a network among all those agents, among all those areas of public administration involved in child care and adolescence, and to place not only intervention but also prevention. For example, you talked about family integration programs. Of course, we activate that program when there's a conflict. We have to try to find tools that will allow us to reduce the number of families that host these programs; that, of course, they have to move forward as soon as necessary. But there is one tool, which you have, besides, the Education Council, such as the schools of mothers and parents, in which you can work other forms of education, co-education, co-responsibility, the transmission of other values within the educational process itself at home. We believe that they are underutilized and that they are not developing as they should and how could — I say — if they were planned from an integral and strategic perspective all that they have to do with the care and protection of young children and adolescents. We believe — I insist — that you are not acting like this, and I refer to that. On the Social Policy Council's own website, the latest strategic plan directed to childhood and adolescence is the one adopted in 2007 and completed in 2010. Then it was passed on to that other perspective in which within the same planning tax incentives were introduced to promote birth to those others who had to do with intervention in adolescents protected by the Union who, for example, have restricted their freedom. We insist, moreover, that this is not a question, a theme or an idea that happens to have the BNG now. This is also reflected in article 40 of Title III, Children and Adolescents, of the Family and Living Law, as regards planning actions and programming of resources. We are talking mainly — you said in your speech — about teams of professionals and entities — especially those in the third sector — that develop this family mediation programme: family orientation offices, family integration programmes, meeting points and intervention programmes with child guardians and already in the day-care centres, therapeutic treatment, outpatient intervention, social work insertion... you gave the number of people who enter the Mentor, but not, for example, the occupation rate once the programme is completed. I think it's sitting -- just tell me if I'm wrong -- in 42%, or something like that -- just tell me, I mean, if I'm wrong, because you didn't give the data either. And in this sense — two minutes remain — we will focus our intervention on two fundamental issues that we believe in the policy of child protection and intervention in adolescence should be given special attention by your advisor. The first are the family meeting points. We believe that it is necessary and urgent that the current legislation be reformed. Its creation and first regulation dates back to 2001, and then some timely changes have been made over the years. It is also a matter that we have recently addressed in the Equality Commission the hand of the director of the Children's Foundation, which is one of the entities that manage these family meeting points — seven in the cities. We believe, from the BNG — and in addition to some matters, we could directly contrast it with it — that we must change the management model and unify intervention criteria and establish better monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for programmes to ensure service and attention according to the needs of families; especially children, of course, because that is the principle that this policy must be rejected, but also women who are in situations of male violence. You have to expand the service to bring it closer to the population. I'll put a case in my constituency. A person, a family, who is in the Navy has to travel to the city of Lugo to get to a family meeting point. We have to look for ways to expand this service in order to bring it closer to the population, given what is the demographic and orographic reality of our country. They tell us, moreover, that the Children's Foundation, in terms of unifying intervention patterns, is working on a protocol that they and they have developed from their experience and the model of intervention that characterizes this entity, always focused on social transformation. We want to know if you are already working or have kept some contact, some space for dialogue, with Children to see if you are willing to seek that unification of objective intervention criteria—I say—to improve the provision of the service itself and to change the model of intervention and improve the provision of services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u44	Finish, please. It's just that he's got thirty minutes and we only have ten.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u45	He's got five minutes later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u46	Yes, yes, I'm done. As a second and final question — and you have also mentioned this issue — all programmes directed at the protection of children and intervention in adolescence come about because we detect and record these cases of disappearance, ill-treatment or abuse that may be taking place in our country. We believe that it is essential for this to spread that unified register of child abuse beyond schools and beyond the police. In recent years we have moved from 8 in 2012 to 13 in 2016. I think you just gave the figure about 2018, too. We believe that we need to expand and improve this detection system, and that is to form also the professionals who work in the teaching centres, so that they have the tools and can detect these situations before complaints can be made, either administratively, policely or judicially.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u48	And we also want it to extend both to primary care and to emergency care and pediatric services, which are the gateway to any child in the public health network. I'm done here because I don't have any more time, but we'll follow up on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u50	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We thank you, Counselor, for this meeting on a subject that is very important, and for the most vulnerable, that are the children and the children in this country. But the truth is, we would also thank him for not repeating that mantra that Galicia today is a better country for having children, which is a better country for children and families, because that is not the reality of this country. The reality is that you turned the Social Policy Council into a social makeup council, which seems to endure absolutely everything. And we know it's an ideological matter, we have it clear. But it is also true that lately it seems that Mr. Feijó has kept him cryogenicized to resurrect him in the municipal elections, because the activity of his counsellor has certainly fallen quite low in recent months. The problem with this is that, in the meantime, inequality continues to grow. Because, yes, the Socialist Group wants to talk today about what the counselor didn't talk about when he was referring to protection. Not a single word about poverty, not a single word about social inequality in this country! And we're going to talk, we're going to try to remove that layer of makeup, advertising and propaganda, because under it there's a very serious situation, there are men and women in this country who would like to have many more children, between 2 and 3, and it turns out that we have a fertility rate of 1.12. [[Applause]] There are many people for whom just thinking of having a child is almost an Asian luxury, Counselor. They're people who know they're working today but they don't know if they're going to work tomorrow. They're the people who are trapped by precarious service sector, even the health personnel who put in more than 200 contracts a month, yes, the officials themselves. They're the citizens with the lowest third wages in all of Spain, the ones that cost them even by the end of the month. You told them to hold on, to wait until the crisis happened. Today we grow at a rate of 3% and there are in Galicia 672,000 Greeks and Greeks entering less than 750 euros a year. This is all a fault, of course, of the policies, of that right-wing labour reform, of that dismantling of the welfare state, which, of course, also covers the Dependency Act — which is of its competence. Can you tell 45 percent of the unemployed in this country that they don't receive any kind of benefit that this is a better country today for having children? Can you tell him, Counselor? [[Applause]] Neither for those who would have to arrive nor for those who are! can't be a good place for children and children when, together with Romania and Greece, we are on that podium, on that sad podium, of poverty. According to data from Unicef and the Ministry of Health, the population under the age of 18 who live in homes at risk of social exclusion are here in Galicia 28%; those who cannot bear unforeseen expenses, 30%. There are, Counselor, more than 400,000 people in this country who suffer from energy poverty. Today we want to talk about these children and children and those parents and mothers who have to put their sons and daughters in bed before the hour when they can't afford to light a stove or turn on the heating. We also want to talk about what his government does to protect these girls and girls with that so-published electric ticket. I know it doesn't depend on your advice, but you should have a communication, at least, flowing with Industry's own advisor to find out how the situation is about it. With an 11% light rise in 2017, with a rise in natural gas in the last four years of 35%, how do families stand? Counselor, data has faces and hides sad and dramatic personal stories. Yesterday we read one of them in La Voz de Galicia, that of Yolanda, of Vilagarcia, the victim of macho violence and that he had and has recently overcome cancer. He said, "In my house there are no radiators, I had to take them off the walls so my children wouldn't turn them on. They're very chilly but the matches were terrible." Counsellor, with this situation of consolidation of poverty, they now develop the income of social integration, with three and a half years of delay and with enormous effects; a situation we have seen denouncing opposition groups, also the PSdEG and the People's Valator. We're not going to talk about childcare measures, about this Welcome Card, about which I would like to ask you what this delay is due to. Because families have to forecast their expenses and income, and those delays are preventing them from doing so. Time is very short. We're going to talk about the most vulnerable, of course, that, in addition to those who suffer poverty, those who are suffering poverty right now. We have to talk about family hospitality, and there's nothing to boast about, Counselor. Aid to children under 3 has been frozen since 2008. Yes, the only ones who went up were those of the ages between 3 and 18 years, which went up 40 euros — EUR 280 —. Please explain to us why autonomous communities with a much higher socio-economic level than Greek, such as Euskadi, for example, give host families — which make a tremendous economic effort already per se — 600 euros per month and 280 of us for these minors; or why the Valencian Community increased by 50% last year. There's no extra expenses. When a child or a child needs glasses — and this is told by the host families themselves — the Administration's answer is, "There's no budget share" or "Pay you, which we'll then give you a help", which doesn't even reach the 90 euros. In 2013, you also launched a collaboration program with the Villages Infantis. And go ahead with our respect to this entity and the work it does, but it's a way like anyone else is outsourcing a service where they invest and to which they have raised the budget in 2017. I have very little time and I want to talk about several issues that we consider important, such as adoptions. It's a very delicate, very sensitive subject. I, Counselor, will not blame you today for the closure, as in some countries, because it depends. You said yourself you're sovereign to make those decisions. But I wonder what you did to curb the fraud of Vigo's ECAI. They've been looking elsewhere for years, with accounts they've had to be checking and with the families they've been tricked into, which they've been tarnished with their hopes of having a son or a daughter. Let's also talk about sexual abuse. It is the crime — I agree with you — more silenced and also the most unpunished. It is good that it is included in a state campaign, but that by reviewing data from the Children's Observatory, at the state level, the data from the Ministry of Health, Services and Equality, it turns out that the only autonomous community that did not provide any data in 2016 on sexual abuse to minors was Galicia. What do you owe this, Counselor? Because all autonomous communities have data, all autonomous communities have drawn the picture in their territories. And what did you do about it? What are you doing? The show's fine, we don't say no. But if you don't have a global vision, neither your department nor the German Government, of which is the situation and how many minors may be at risk of suffering this situation, explain to me how you can act on it. Family meeting points discussed. We have asked on many occasions to increase those seven points of meeting. Mrs. Rodil had first set an example concerning the province of Lugo and I'm going to put on the one of Ourense. Well, to go from The Boat of Valdeorras to Ourense an hour and forty minutes ago. They are children who are suffering... Mr. White Paradelo goes a little faster than me. I'll meet the speed limits. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, Mr. Blanco Paradello. There is a lack of means and resources at those familiar meeting points. [[Applause]] Do you plan on increasing them? [[Murmurs.]] Because these children suffer these long distances, with serious prejudices in their school activities, and also because of the tremendous emotional burden they have to bear and drag. Are you going to increase, as we have requested from the PSdeG on numerous occasions, the number of family meeting points? Will that obsolete regulation of the year 2001 be modified? Yes, Counsellor, we also have to talk about the centers. And I'm also going to refer to Montealegre in Ourense, which has been closed since 2012. You guys did what they did was move the minors from that center to a center next door, that of the Carballeira, mixing different cases. They mixed minors in reform regimens with minors protected by the administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u52	...with very serious problems in that center. When will you open that center, Counsellor? And are you sure that this center is public and public management? Look, today's social justice day is celebrated. What we want to ask you, aside from answering these questions that I asked you during my intervention, is that you start applying that Day of Social Justice for the three hundred and sixty-five days of the year to combat inequality among the most vulnerable, children and children in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u54	Good day again, Counselor. We thought today, from En Marea, that the reason for the appearance would perhaps be to announce some new measure. As you did, in general, evaluate the situation of children's policies in Galicia, we are also going to do what we are going to do, evaluate these and give the proposals of En Marea in each of its aspects. And we start them -- and we've already moved it into debates when we present a motion about child poverty -- in two fundamental lines. The first is the concept of childhood as a subject of rights, a concept that is also collected in international legislation, in the state and in Galicia itself, the concept of understanding that childhood is not only the future, it is not only tomorrow, but at this time it is people who must be an active part of the policies that affect them. This is fundamental to us. And we also understand that childhood policies must be a cross-cutting issue and must not be a stagnant compartment. And then the second line in which we framed the policies of childhood has to do with what has already been pointed out to you, with the increase in inequality and vulnerability of children. Because today's talk of childhood in Galicia can't separate itself from poverty and social exclusion, it can't, because the general framework is that the crisis has severely deteriorated, above all, employment. And that led to an increase in the risk of poverty, which was higher in the children's population. It's just that the data is intolerable. We can get some data, for example, those that transferred us to UNICEF. And, by the way, UNICEF, in relation to the first line I put to them, demands that we put the pillars in Parliament and push that commission for children's rights. And demand, for example — in the line, as I said, of participation — that there is some more stable participation agency. We proposed a child's council. But by going to the data, 28.8% of children under 18 are at risk of poverty and exclusion, according to AROPE; and 8.6% of the population under 18 lives in households with very low employment intensity. It must be borne in mind that the lack of employment in the family is the main risk factor for child poverty. 24.5% of children under the age of 18 live in households with income below 60% of the average, or 26.5% of households with children cannot face unforeseen expenses. I mean, to talk about childhood in Galicia is to talk about poverty. With regard to child protection, we specifically asked in committee whether Junta had any study or some prediction of how this increase in poverty affected situations of unemployment. He considered the director general to be irrelevant. We believe that yes, that it is necessary to study specifically how poverty affects situations of unemployment. How will it not affect a family not to reach the end of the month, and that this situation continues repeatedly, in which cases of childhood unemployment increase! I know you're going to tell me that the situations of unemployment are not because of poverty, of course, which is because of a number of causes that you have pointed out as a socio-family problem. What impact does poverty have on those causes that result in the disappearance of minors? You gave the data and did not break up, between extended family and alien family, the number of shelters that were in each of the modalities. In 2015, according to the data of Junta itself, there were 163 families outside the host and 1,088 extended families. It would be nice to know the current data to be observing that evolution. As far as the State is concerned, Galicia has a lower rate of minors in families than in centres. I did the quick calculation here and we would be now, at home in the family, at 54.8%, when the state average is higher — around 58% — and when it is the reception that is considered priority. And this, of course, doesn't mean that, when it comes to intervention in centers, it's not necessary to always counter this family welcome in front of shelters in centers. Because there are situations where rapid intervention is needed and that the minor or the minor is quickly integrated, when possible, into his or her family of origin. These centers, precisely, must have the best conditions. And the reality is that housing in residential centers lets you wish in many ways. You have signaled a significant increase in the budget. Why was that significant increase in the budget made? Because there are centers that didn't have the conditions and still don't have the conditions. It is essential for us to guarantee the good conditions of the centres — both the public and the majority, which are concerted — because there are material deficiencies and lack of staff. Family reception programs must be coordinated from the Administration. It has already been pointed out here that they are coordinated by private entities, by Red Cross in the case of foster families in general and by SOS Infanti villages in large families. Another issue is to ensure public psychological care and an integral intervention. We were talking about that integral intervention is essential in cases of deprotection of minors to have the minimum possible consequences. Coordination of psychological care from the administration is fundamental. And also — if you spoke here in the morning — guarantee the rights of workers and public workers — in this case in the centres — by returning the cuts that were made in the fifth agreement. Anyway, when we put it into practice, when we go into concrete, reality isn't as pink as it sometimes looks. Speaking of centers, you can also point out, of course, the centre of Montealegre. It was a terrible process management. It's been closed I think five years already, and the boys are in a center that is not adapted, that doesn't follow the patterns of socio-educational intervention that need the minors who are hosted in that center, who have different profiles and who, in addition, have been sent to other provinces. More measures we propose to you in relation to family shelter — which, we repeat, is below the state average — is a greater support and follow-up at the level of family education and a psychological programme. Family education — which has also been exposed here — is essential to prevent it too. You said that one of the basic lines was prevention. Family education is essential to prevent situations of unemployment. The board took Pre-School home. We already know it was a very specific program. But it's not that it gives any alternatives, nor has it affixed to family education, which is an essential area for value education. There has also been talk about the need for greater economic support for extended families. The impact of the crisis has led many of those families who have younger children to resort to solidarity even in order to obtain food. There have been cases of having to go to Caritas to collect food. Another measure is the equalization of maternity, paternity and breastfeeding permits in the case of receptions to children under a year, in emergency shelters, which had many difficulties in accessing these permits. What does this do? It makes solidarity criminal, because only those families who have sufficient economic resources or who have a certain distribution of family roles — such as women who don't work and care for their children — can be supportive. And what we have to do, as you said, is promote solidarity and ensure that any family that wants to be hospitable can be. As for adoptions, you also talked about international adoptions. We believe that the Union has not assumed its responsibilities in the control of ECAI Addis Galicia, we have already brought it here to this Parliament. And the worst thing is that they don't put the means to solve this situation, because after a post- adoption follow-up they keep sending their families — who have hosted this ECAI before all the problem and the closure of international adoptions — to this ECAI who has no assurances that it is doing things well by sending the documentation to countries. Post-adoption follow-up must be ensured entirely from Joining. About the technical teams of the minor and Justice, talking about Justice is talking about media. Precisely there is the strike of Justice for these staff demands, which are intended to reduce to a wage increase. And no, remember that they also claim more personal. And here, specifically, we also stop at the Immelga, which is of vital importance in numerous judicial processes involving minors as well. In this case, Immelga's professional people demand more means, more personnel, but also adequate and sufficient spaces. Also, by the way, they are needed at those familiar meeting points, humanization is necessary, with specific waiting rooms that preserve privacy, tracking and privacy, and that they are provided with play materials. We return to humanization, so fundamental in this world. Coordination of professionals. Since I don't have much time left, we're going to connect with this coordination. It is essential to improve the interconnection between social policy and health. Why? Because in health care is where many cases of child abuse are detected — the entrance door. It should also be borne in mind that 80% of the cases of this abuse have to do with the abandonment of hygiene, care and food, which is detected right there in the health care. So we have to solve the problem of pediatrics, which we know is not specific to our country, which is a state problem. But if we don't lay the foundations for that issue, there are minors in this country who are left without any pediatric coverage, and we know what we live in rural areas. The presence of pediatrics must be guaranteed in primary care. And also, by the way, coordination with education, because it's also, of course, another gateway. In that sense, one measure that I propose in Marea is to increase and strengthen social education. It is necessary to put the professionals in the educational community in this area, because it is essential for prevention, they are fundamental professionals for prevention and then for the attention of these cases and also for follow-up, both in education and in community social services. Because a fundamental measure that we've always hurt at En Marea is the reinforcement of that system of community social services. Children's policies — as has been said here — of the Galician Union are, in most cases, directed or coordinated by private entities, or are in concert regimens. It is necessary to strengthen the public system, and one fundamental way is that, the community social services with social educators and educators who precisely influence prevention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u56	...and not only in the positive follow-up of these cases, so they don't repeat again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u57	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, from the People's Group we consider this attendance to be a coincidence, because we are talking not only about childhood, but about those children in Galicia who are in the worst situation. That's why we think it's random, because it's to focus not only on analyzing the policies of the Galician Union, but also on giving birth to the situation in which many children and children live in our country. And we also believe that this presence must be addressed with the rigor and seriousness that children deserve, although some spokesmen have just mixed up issues that have nothing to do with children and their protection, because we have no doubt that all parliamentary groups represented in this House have as a priority to ensure the safety and well-being of children and children. The protection of children, especially the protection of minors who are in a state of unemployment and social disprotection, is a great responsibility of the Galician Union as an administration, but we also believe that collaboration and awareness of the whole of Galician society is necessary. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1989 and ratified by Spain in 1990, constitutes the first international law on the rights of children, and includes in its articles follow-up mechanisms for compliance through the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, which reviews each State party. Just last January, in the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, an analysis was carried out of the situation of child protection, where Galicia represented the autonomous communities within the Spanish delegation and where it exposed the protection measures to the children of our community. The Convention also recognizes children as subjects of law and not merely subjects of care or protection. Every person aged 18 is entitled to the rights of the Convention. And administrations have a legal obligation to give effect to those rights and to take into account as a primary consideration the best interests of the child. According to the 2016 IGE data, around 14% of Galician population is under 18. And there's one question we want to address today, because we think it's necessary to focus on this problem that we have throughout the country, which is sexual violence. Because, according to the available data, it is estimated that 1 out of every 5 children in Europe is a victim of sexual violence, sexual abuse, child pornography, Internet capture of children and adolescents, child prostitution or child corruption. Some of the most serious forms of sexual abuse are not detected, as the counselor said, when it occurs in the privacy of homes. Despite progress in awareness of the problem of child abuse, there are still many more cases of hidden child abuse than those that are detected. This data reflects with impact the problem we are facing, and all of us in this chamber, and the Galician society, we have to be aware of that reality. The Council of Europe launched a campaign to curb sexual violence against children, children and adolescents, known as "One in Five", and joined by the Council of Galicia in 2014. But in addition, the Union has taken one more step to curb and alert this reality. In 2017, a campaign is launched, not only to prevent and detect sexual abuse in minors, but so that those minors who have already been victims of abuse can overcome this traumatic situation; to alert this reality to the need for it not to be hidden. In the care of children and adolescents, actions aimed at prevention are given priority; we all agree. The priority is prevention. But it is understood that a child is unprotected when people who are forced to pay attention and care do not do so, or when they do it improperly. In the event of a risk situation, action should basically be directed towards support for the family, through counseling and technical support, conflict mediation, economic aid or family education, so that parents are able to care for their children and that children can enjoy appropriate social, economic and cultural conditions. When the situation is described as a state-of-the-art situation, the Administration must take over the administrative custody of minors, and also take other measures, such as working with the family of origin as the child's temporary guardian or child by an alternative family or specialized centre, or their final integration into an adoptive family. The advisor explained all child protection programs. He spoke of family reception, residential reception, adoption, the Family Integration Programme, the Socio-Working Programme Mentor and the Outpatient Care Programme. Today we want to stop at the Family Hospitality Program too, for two questions: the first, that all children have the right to a family, all of them. And, in addition, we want to thank all those people and all those families who welcome the children who need them at a given time. Thank you, really for your work. [[Applause]] But it is also necessary that every day in Galicia we have more welcoming families for these children, because the priority is family reception in front of the residential. In addition, we have to talk not only about measures but also about budget measures, because this year the Family Hospitality Programme has 3.8 million euros; 1 million euros more than last year. And if we talk about family hospitality, we're talking about that, under different circumstances, minors need to be temporarily separated from their family nucleus, and for them the use of another resource is not feasible. So family welcome is the priority, but we can't close our eyes. There are realities in which it is necessary to remove that child or that child from his family, and in which there is no alternative but the residential center. And if we talk about the family meeting points, we guarantee the safety and well-being of the children and make it easier to comply with the visit regime; 7 points of family meeting. We would also like to say that Galicia now has more resources for programmes aimed at minors in situations or at risk of social disprotection. For children's and family policies, Joina has this year 2018 with EUR 133 million for its development; 7% more than last year's exercise, and 52% more than 2015. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Counsellor, I think that children well deserve agreement, dialogue, sensitivity and, of course, all the attention of this chamber. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica, Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the first speech, I come up with my own request and I come up with a subject which we think needs greater visibility from the Government of Galicia. If we want to achieve new social achievements, we must count on the support of the political group as a whole and we must focus on society to take into account and make the situation of children visible, to talk more about children's issues and to talk more — and indeed, as I did in this intervention — about those children and those children who are not in the ideal situation that we would like everyone on our land, which would be a developed society that cares for their children and their children, and which is why they need special protection. That's why I want to thank the proposals, the exchange of ideas, and that's why I want to regret once again that, in relation to these issues, sometimes excessive politicization is present here, because you can argue about a lot of things, but I also think you can argue politically about a lot of things. You know that, anyway, I like to answer everything, and I will also answer those things, but without taking away the emphasis, precisely, that we are talking about the children and the children of Galicia, that they are our future and that, therefore, what this government is doing, and what it wants to continue to do, is to generate the conditions for Galicia to be the best place to be a child or the best place to be a child. In Galicia there are also situations of difficulties in many families, and we have to be able to have programmes on the table precisely for, when these situations are given, that these situations can be detected, that these situations can be addressed and that such situations — if I may too — can be corrected. That's why it's so important that we focus on this Parliament too on the child's phone, 116111, to ask society to report them when they know cases. The data is part of a register of State character, in the Unified Child Abuse Registry, and of course we are going to take the suggestions that have been made here about the extension of this register, in which we are already working, in connection with the reception, with the family intervention programs, about the mentor, about our protection centres, about the Liana and Convive programs, and about the fact that, as I said in the first part of my intervention, we have increased not only our attention to children, our attention to children, because we have developed more policies than ever, but also a commitment that is very important, which is the budgetary commitment. Look, the words must always accompany them with facts. Since the establishment of the Social Policy Council, we have spent from 86 million euros for the Family and Children area to 133 million euros for this year 2018. So I think that this intention we have is accompanying policies and accompanying an important investment, which is the investment of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Let me also in this reply remind you of the 2011 Greek Children's Pact, which we are going to give to this Parliament, and we are giving it continuity. And let me tell you again about the importance of coordination between the autonomous communities and the state, as we are doing. Indeed, Mrs. Rodil, we're trying to move forward in a non-assisualist vision. I fully agree with what you expressed. I have a discrepancy, that of the Deputy of Pontevedra, I have to tell you. I don't think he's incompetent for these issues; I think he's competent, and that the Pontevedra Deputy has been developing many years of child care programs, and I think he can continue to do so, in fact, in addition, happily, we have reached an agreement with the Pontevedra Deputy because the really important thing, beyond competition or incompetence, is to be able to join efforts if what we want is to guarantee the rights of children and children. So, discussing skills, when what we have to do is gather all our resources to better care for children and girls... I think that has to be our fundamental goal. Tell me you don't want to talk about management. Well, neither do I. In fact, I think it would be worth distorting an intervention like this about the rights of children and children with public service management formulas. That's better for the doctoral theses or for other parliamentary debates. In any case, as you have actually told me, this is political too, and I want to tell you that we are pleased with the collaboration with social entities; very pleased. It seems to us an appropriate formula, and, of course, that formula seems more appropriate to us than to private companies. And I can tell you that since the Social Policy Council was set up here, there are no private companies, but collaboration is done through social initiative entities, and that's why we're developing the social concert. I also want to tell you that since 2010 we've done something, right? Precisely, this Children's Pact in this Parliament. And I want to tell you that in the next few months we'll approve the Welsh Strategy for Children and Adolescents, the EGIA, which we're finalizing, exactly according to some of the entities you talked about in your intervention. And I also want to announce to you that in the next few months, in this semester, we will also develop this Pact for Children, creating the Family Observatory, in which I think there are very important groups and entities to move on in this area. I take, of course, also into consideration the proposals that he makes to me. In recent years, we've improved what we could do with the points, and of course we've been thinking about their enlargement. We are studying it, as well as the expansion of protection systems, with the complexity you can imagine that there is always in the administration in these cases. One would like to get from 5 to 10 in six months. Unfortunately, we are now in a moment of economic recovery, of increasing social policies financed from public resources, we are in an expansive moment of all our resources; and therefore we can take very good note of your proposal. Then, Mrs. Blanco, you tell me, "Stop repeating..." Look, it's in this country that we have freedom of expression; therefore, I think I have the possibility to repeat that we have an ambition, that Galicia is the best place to be a child or to be a child. I understand that you don't like it, but that's the ambition of a government and that's what we want to move to the Greek society. Look, "not a word of poverty." Well, look, he wasn't very attentive to the surgery. We talk about poverty whenever you want. I don't know if it's a better Andalusian region for you, speaking of child poverty; or, instead of Andalusia, Castile-The Mancha, or Valencia or Asturias. We were first thing in the morning with EAPN and just published a very interesting report on child poverty. Look, I'll give you some data. That's why he told me he wasn't talking, because I don't think we've earned anything in this competition looking at who's making it worse. But as you ask, I do so gladly. Andalucia, in that report, has a severe child poverty rate of 29%; Castile-A Mancha, of 6%; Valencia, of 10%; Asturias, of 7%. I don't know if you think these are better regions than Galicia to be a child or a child. We are not proud of the rate we have in Galicia — 4% — but, of course, we believe that the measures we have put in place are contributing to the reduction in the rate of child poverty in Galicia. I'm telling you, we're not proud of that data, it's one of the best data in all of Spain, but we're not proud. Our ambition is that there is no child poverty; to eradicate child poverty; to reduce inequality. And that's why we want to keep working with the rest of the political groups, working with the social entities -- we've been with EAPN -- we've been working with the municipalities, working with the deputies, working with the deputies, precisely by joining us all on that objective: that there is no poverty, that there is no inequality, and much less when we talk about children and children. Look, in Galicia, Mrs. Blanco, we were able to sign Galicia's unique Social Agenda precisely with the entities, with the municipalities and with the deputies, and the results are positive. It's not the best, it's not where we want to go, but we have legislation, Mrs. Blanco, and we'll keep talking about how we're going to get better. Look, the risk index in Galicia in the children's field is 10 points below the average across Spain. So I believe that in Galicia we also have good things we are doing among all of us; not the Government, but the whole of the municipalities, of course, the Government of Galicia, the deputies and social entities, precisely in that objective of continuing to achieve economic recovery to all families. I understand that they don't like this, but it's been like this, and the statistical data says we're going in the right direction. Look, I really can't agree, Mrs. Blanco, I tell you with all my affection, that this is a social makeup councillor. I can't consent to it, not by the counsellor, but by the thousands of people who work in this council every day to be an example in caring for the worst people who are going through it, the people who need our attention most. I can't consent to it, Mrs. Blanco. And I can't consent to it, not by words, but by facts. [[Applause]] Look, it's just that since this council was created we've increased, not spending, but investment. I understand that it bothers you that I speak this way, but that's the way I understand social policy. Investment, 25%. Of course, I suppose you won't want us to go back to social policy investment data from when you were in government. And I have to tell you for using such frivolous terms as "social makeup," or that the activity of the Counsellor and the Counsellor has fallen down a lot. Look, Mrs. Blanco, it really looks like a frivolity to me, when we're talking about rights, social rights, when we're talking about people. Look, Mrs. Blanco, we have a lot to do, but tell me one data in the field of action of the Social Policy Council, a ratio, a statistic that has been downloaded in recent months. [[Applause]] That's the most important thing: to continue to lower dependence, to continue to lower poverty, to continue to rise in our care programmes. That's our responsibility. Mrs. Blanco, we can — I hope — continue to see how we are moving, among all the Greeks, the time that we have left of legislation. And, Mrs. Vázquez, I share those two axes that you were telling me about childhood care. I am pleased that, as in other interventions, rather than friflizing, it is political in relation to people's rights, subjects of rights and the moment of inequality. I want to share with you our concern — which is one of the reasons why this appearance is there — because we can continue to increase in the field of welcoming families. That's why part of the intervention of this audience is to focus on how we can continue to improve. We're actually in this under the Spanish ratio, as you say. And when criticism is constructive, we have to be able to do things to change that situation. And that's why we've increased by 30% the pay for foster families in this 2018 exercise. We hope to note those effects. I'm going to give you the evolution data you asked me for: in 2013, 48% were in families; in 2014, 52%; in 2015, 50%; in 2016, 55%; in 2017, 56%. So we're getting better, but we're still on our way to get better. We hope that the Government's efforts will bring together the efforts of the parliamentary groups as well as our society as a whole. I also agree with the need to strengthen Community social services. We're doing it. In the last agreed plan we do it again in the cities of preferential action. We are developing a table, which came out precisely from the Single Social Agenda, where the councils and the deputies, the social entities and the Council of Galicia, precisely for this essential reinforcement of the social services of the Community, so that, I say, among all of us, we can have professional services not only at the Council of Galicia, but at the councils, at the first gateway to the needs. So I think we have a lot to do. I really hope and hope that with everyone's support we can continue to have that longing for a better society. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u61	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u62	Thank you, President. And thank you, Counselor. I don't know why he didn't say the one about the Welsh Strategy of childhood and adolescence in the first intervention; maybe we could have started there. We would like to first of all to have you bring yourself to this House and to put yourself in common with all the organizations that we have here so that we can make our contributions, and above all I should like to say on the main issue that since our group we want to highlight today and emphasize, that it is in the need to change the perspective since it has been working to do so in a planned, comprehensive way, strategically and, above all, coordinated with all the agents working in the sector; besides the departments within the administration itself, with those private entities in the third sector that work with these children and adolescent people. I was talking about this article and about the study that was developed from a social educator and a professor at the University of Vigo. This study and analysis were based on the necessary changes that were to be incorporated into the management model that was being developed in what had to do with measures of protection and care for children and adolescents, in that study developed through interviews with professionals who work directly in those policies, programs, performances. One of the issues that was put on the table was the difficulties they encountered when, for example, one person changed from program to program or moved from center to center. And they said directly -- and I open quotes because they're interviews with professionals -- "A boy comes from a center where you don't know what he's done with, and not only that, sometimes the boys don't understand how to do something in a place if they're asked for something and, elsewhere, they're completely different," said one of the educators of one of the evaluated centers. "The problem is that I've checked," said another professional, "as sometimes the way to work between each other is the opposite. It would be important for greater coordination, since minors are hallucinating differences and we lose credibility." For us, it is essential that a network is built, that these spaces are used and, if they don't exist, that new ones are created where you can open a dialogue and weave synergies within these spaces, and in those strategies, in those integral plannings and in all sectors, entities and areas of administration and outside of it that work within these programs. One of the issues that now emerged in the course of intervention by the groups: we fully agree that we must focus, make society visible and sensitize the whole of society about ill-treatment, abuse — whether sexual or not — and all forms of violence against children. But in order to focus there, we need to know what happens, we need to detect those cases. And that's why we strongly insisted on the need to extend this RUMI to health, and in addition to the first floor of it, to this primary care, to pediatric services and emergency services. You know -- and I think all the people we're here -- of the case that we had at the end of 2017, precisely in the district of Lugo, in the county of Mondoñedo; a case of ill-treatment and abuse against a 9-year-old child. And to the thread of that case, the media focus was placed, public, around how they were detected, which were the protocols and how they were able to account for situations of ill-treatment. They were interviewing the people of their work team, who, in addition to being Deputy Director-General for Family Policy, Children and Adolescents, is the person responsible for the administrative part of that juvenile protection system in Galicia. And at that point she was already saying she was going to extend -- and we're talking about the end of 2017 -- this RUMI, this Unified Child Abuse Registry, also beyond the educational services. But she also did a very interesting analysis, and I don't want to leave here without giving her a voice within the House. And he said, "RUMI is barely used in Galicia." And the journalist asked him, "Why? And he said, "We've made it easier for all teachers to use the username and password to get into the system, but I think it's little used because there's a lot of ignorance and the teachers are overwhelmed," something that absolutely breaks with the official speech of the People's Party in the Education Commission. And he said, "There's also a lot of mobility in staff paintings, and that doesn't favor the detection of these cases." Counting on the necessary resources... he's a deputy director general of the People's Party, not the BNG or the Bipartite. But we focus again on the need for stable staff frameworks, with working conditions that allow them to address from an integral perspective all the realities that affect children. And, in this respect, they also need training, and we also say this many times about women — and end — in a situation of macho violence. Having time to take care of women, children or anyone who goes to a health center, to have time to ask them questions that can often cause us to see the alarms, the symptoms that show a case of abuse, whether it's the type, can make us or allow us to focus, precisely, in a reality that we agree that it's often hidden. But it's also true — and now I'm done — that we can't take this as patches. We insist on the need to prevent. We need to transform society and the way we relate to each other, because if not, whether inside or outside the family, what we're going to see is how violent attitudes often appear to be that with impatience we don't want to shake hands. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u64	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Counsellor, about politicizing, we've heard so much lately: we've come here to talk about politics. He's a councilman of a government and I'm an autonomous Member. What do you want us to talk about, gardening? No, let's talk about politics. Because the difference between applying policies and others is what has different results in people's lives. [[Applause]] You said I don't like having a government with political ambition to have a country... No, it's precisely the opposite, Counselor. What I don't like is to hear you say that we have that country that we don't have. What I would like is to have a government that had political ambition for social policy, of course it does. Because, look, frivolity is to say that Spain falls that we will have seen others lift it up. That's frivolity, Counselor. But I wish, like all of us here — I am also convinced, as a citizen of this country — that there is a government that is concerned about the social situation of this country and that the data do not continue to put their hair at the top. And you were asking me a series of questions. It is true that in the audiences we tend to ask, we are Members, but I will answer you. He said to me, where does that paralysis notice? So look, note: Dependency ratings. In the province of Pontevedra yesterday the evaluations that were being made were of June 2015 — June 2015!—. That's what I think is a delay, Counselor, because they are people who are pending that they are assigned a degree and that they are given a benefit, or that they are people who even, on some occasions, as the people's own valet reported, they couldn't present themselves to some oppositions for not having that certificate. What's slow? Well, look, Mr. Counselor, you can tell David. I came yesterday to La Voz de Galicia: "If it wasn't for my mother, I'd already be asking for help on the street and, fortunately, I get help from Caritas to pay for the bill of light." This is what's slow, Counselor, the help; the help to the worst people are going through. What's wrong and slow? Look, please, when you can, the adoption portal of the Galician board, because I actually looked at it by chance right now -- I have to admit -- and it turns out that Addis Galicia, today, and after all the trouble that happened, it continues to be on that website of the Government of Galicia and continues to offer adoptions to Burkina Faso and Ethiopia; an entity that did not respond about the management that did its advice and broke a week after you had made intermediaries with families to ask them for an extraordinary payment; these families — I repeat — who had gone through in many cases already fertility processes and were really going through it. Family home. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, don't thank the families, we also give them, what they have to give them is resources to those grandmothers, those grandparents with the lowest pensions in the country, who can't pay for orthodontics in many cases to those children or who don't have money for school material, and that when they turn to the Galician board they find with the answer of: there's no budget, there's no budget share for it. In this audience, I've missed you, Counsellor, the Children's and Family's Observatory, which is practically a classic in your appearances and on many occasions in those of the president of the board. The announcement you made today here is once again a resale. That, without audacity and so you don't get angry, I have to tell you that less bad than the political resale is not punished by the law, because if you'd no longer be on trial. Look, the Observatory for Family and Children, announced by the president of the Galician Union on 9th of 1st of 2016: "Immediate place in operation of the Observatory for Children and the Family". The situation is so good that we created an observatory of childhood when we were in government in 2008, which has decided to reformulate and to which it has been all these years turning around and dwindling the partridge. The truth is that Galicia doesn't even have a position in this matter and in this issue at the state level. If you check the website of the Observatory for the Children of Spain, you will find the Observatory for the Children of Andalusia, Catalonia, Asturias, Basque Country, Mallorca... Yes, they are different each; with different social and economic situations, of course yes, Counsellor, which I have no time to enter to value, but here are plans and here are publications on the situation of adolescence and childhood in each of these autonomous communities. Where is the website of the Galician page and where are those publications, those studies that are needed? And where is this Children's and Family Observatory that you've announced again today, which has set in motion? I do, as I feel very proud of the policies that my colleagues are making in other autonomous communities, I say again that in Andalusia it has started and is fully performance since 2001 and in Extremes since 2013. You guys, lots of ads and little results. We, Counselor, what we ask of you is that you put the batteries and start working in this matter. We are always willing to reach agreements, but reaching agreements is a reciprocal matter. It does not seem to us that the best way to reach agreements is that when we get to the Social Policy Committee or this plenary session and bring an initiative in this area, the People's Party will roll over, often without any amendments, and go over our initiatives. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u66	Thank you, President. Yes, we politicize, of course, because we have a political stance on management and, in this case, because we do not hide it: we bet on public management, and we do not avoid telling it in each of our interventions. A question about the data. Those I asked for were broken down, those that correspond to the extended family and those that do not. With the rest, with the ones given, we were able to update that fact that you yourself recognize: that we follow below the state average as for the family reception on residential reception. Also, by the way, the data of which is the number of open files of protection in 2017 is missing; the total, not only the resolved ones. Well, I've been left in the previous intervention with some issues that have come out of these interventions, and one fundamental is training. In organic law 8/2015, and in state law, it is recalled that it should be ensured to any extent that intervention in the process—textually—of qualified professionals as experts is taken in greater interest of the child. There's obviously a lack of training, there's a lack of updating professionals, but, above all, there's a lack of staff, this is a constant. There's a lack of staff in justice, there's a lack of staff in education, there's a lack of staff in health care and there's a lack of pediatrics. So we have to encourage these training mechanisms to exist, it's fundamental, and it's also legally protected. This must be a central element of policies. So, as for the family meeting points — our position also moved it on numerous occasions — we want it to be a comarcal model, there can be no such unnecessary displacement for families. The data he gave shows, moreover, that these meeting points are saturated. We have to humanize them, they have to have more means and people, and we have to talk about management here too. We bet on direct management, and if management is with social entities, it's not with private entities, because he said they didn't put social services in the hands of private entities. In the last competition it is now 1 managed by private companies to 3. So this is a contradiction. Then, with regard to the care of minors in homes with macho violence, the consideration of these minors as victims is fundamental as well of the male violence. But this, once again, requires strengthening training programmes and psychological support programmes from the Union itself, which, as has already been stated here, depend on social entities, which have — if so — an important work bag. Together, what I should do is contribute to that experience being extended to the whole country. And then, as far as data on sexual violence against children — which is true that there are really no specific data, and that there are many hidden cases — 80% is estimated not to be reported. Once again, in this terrible reality, training and intervention by professionals is fundamental here, not only in the rehabilitation of children who suffer from this scourge, but also in prevention. Because a fundamental issue to avoid sexual abuse of children is that minors themselves are empowered — that word sometimes so ugly — to identify, above all, sexual abuse and sexual harassment. This is fundamental. That is why we return to the necessary impact of staff reinforcement, especially in this case, on the issue of education and on the issue of Community social services, because, of course, the juvenile prosecutors at a recent congress have asked for this: Community social services must be strengthened in the detection of hidden ill-treatments, to which you referred, and specifically to sexual abuse. It's fundamental because in small municipalities there are not enough professionals, there are no mechanisms to detect this issue. Let's get back to that subject all the time. It would also be necessary to speak here, in the protection of children, of migrant minors. We have cases of lack of access to health care, lack of access to the health of migrant minors; in particular in the EOXI of Lugo we have transferred some questions. And also, of course, we have to say that we have to implement this plan of welcoming refugees, of what you yourselves assume on the Social Policy Council website and that it is not effective. There is no coordinated plan for welcoming, and the reality is that migrant minors, apart from continuing to suffer these terrible pathways of the Mediterranean and continuing to die in the Mediterranean sea — because hundreds of minors died in the Mediterranean sea — do not have an individualized plan for insertion, their families and therefore in that plan for welcoming refugees, in addition to not welcoming people to whom the Spanish State has committed, that plan does not work. And to finish, let's go back to the topic of the impact of the crisis. It is essential for us to have studies that link the impact of the brutal crisis on children with the increase or not, to know, of situations of helplessness. And in this sense, speaking of renewing the necessary Greek Pact for Children, of renewing it in consensus and not unilaterally, making announcements, it would be fundamental — because you committed to updating the Poverty Study, which the Union has not published, because it has disclosed only a few conclusions, and has done so in 2014 — to update it, to publish it in its entirety, and that we know exactly the situation of vulnerability of our country's children. It is not acceptable to not have this information. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u67	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. I think we need to celebrate today's announcement by the advisor that we are going to put in place and that we are going to approve this Welsh strategy of childhood and adolescence, and also that the Family Observatory is going to be launched, because these are two measures that were included in the Greek Children's Pact that we signed in the previous legislative term all parliamentary groups. And by the way, we have pending and we're all going to sign a new Greek Children's Pact in this legislation because the previous one is from 2011, and we also have to do follow-up committees. But what I would like to ask the spokesperson for the Socialist Group is if it doesn't seem right to say it's a frivolity, when we're talking about childhood and the situation of deprotection, whether you're here to talk about delays in the assessment of dependency or delay at risk, because, look, you've got to review, because I think the council that the greatest delays in risk assessment is taking place right now is the Vigo Council of the Socialist Party. So it's frivolity when we talk about minors and it's frivolity when we say they're delaying... something will have to do with the situation of childhood in our community. [[Applause]] And it's also frivolity, when we're talking about minors -- and you're laughing -- of minors who are suffering sexual violence, sexual abuse, deprotection, and you're here talking about the councillor being frozen for municipal elections. That's frivolity and not approach an appearance of importance and sensitivity like this with the rigour you need, ma'am. Yeah, that's frivolity, it's frivolity, it's frivolity. [[Applause]] And it seems that the People's Party can't thank the welcoming families; of course we can thank them! It's just that there had to be more welcoming families in Galicia. But, apart from thanking them, the Galician Union does something else, Madam: the Galician Union supports these welcoming families, which, by the way, are not welcoming families for the money that the Galician Union gives them, they are welcoming families because they are so, solidarity, and they think about children, not just the money of the Galician Union. But the Galician Union is economically supporting these families, because it looks at 3.8 million euros. Since I don't want to divert this audience, I'm not going to say what you meant to the welcoming families, because it's a very serious and very sensitive subject. But besides supporting those families, we can also thank them for their work. By the way, not only do they have economic support measures, but there is also another type of support measures for these welcoming families. And, of course, you come here to talk about the data, about the Arope indicator, but of course you're talking about the Galician indicator, but you're not talking about the state indicator. How many points of difference are there between the German indicator and the state indicator? How many points of difference are there between the German indicator and the indicator of other autonomous communities? That's frivolity, because you use the data depending on how interested you are, and this is a much more serious question, ma'am, much more serious. And look, we can talk about resources, because Galicia currently has more resources than ever to care for children who are in a situation of protection, more resources than ever, because it looks at 133 million euros. It seems to you that this is something of no importance, it doesn't matter, does it? because it's money to take care of these children. It seems to you that we have 52% more money to care for childhood and adolescence in Galicia is not important. How much was it destined for in Galicia in 2009? How much no 2005? Why don't we talk about what was meant? For me the important thing is that we have EUR 133 million to care for the family and childhood. And of course, here we have talked about a number of programs, such as family hospitality, which we have already said is increasing support for families. We're talking about residential accommodation, which has already informed the advisor that there is a game to improve these facilities. The adoption has been spoken. Family integration programs talked about. We've been talking about care, about treatment. So I think that we are going to remove from this audience issues that are not important and we are going to focus on what really is, which is where all groups and all Members agree: that child security and well-being are the most important. Of course, the Galician Union is working on it. And we, as a parliamentary group, are also going to do it through this Greek Children's Pact. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close this meeting, Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u70	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. This government is committed to a social model that places children and children at the centre, since ultimately ensuring the well-being and realization of children's rights is not only an end that is gathered in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also an essential condition for guaranteeing our future as a society. This commitment, as I told you throughout my speeches, has to translate into facts; rights, but also facts, because for that we have to be governments; facts and investments. The children's and family policies of the Galician Union this year will achieve an investment of EUR 133 million, 7% more than in the previous year and 52% more than before the Social Policy Council was set up. So we're putting the resources of all the Greeks, the greatest resources of all the Greeks, precisely focused on improving our family policies, our policies for the children and for the children. Galicia now has more resources than ever before to consolidate the autonomous network of programmes and resources addressed to children/children and adolescents also at risk or undercover, programmes in which we will continue to work around three areas of action: prevention, firstly; secondly, detection; and thirdly, repair. The desire of the Government, the desire of the Council for Social Policy, is to approve this year of the Welsh Strategy for Children; this year's launch, also this year, of the Family Observatory, which will allow us to have an almost permanent X-ray around a lot of data that is not enough at this time to diagnose the needs that we have to implement; and the next entry into operation of a renewed Montealegre centre in Ourense, which will increase the network of public centers for the care of children and children. This remodeling and reopening of Montealegre is marked by an increase in the economic departure for child care and protection centres, which in 2018 will exceed EUR 30 million, with a 13% rise, which shows that we will not only improve our reception programs but also improve our care centers. Why do we do it? Because it's necessary. And that's why we picked it up in the budget of the Galician board, which has already been approved, and we're implementing it. Ladies and gentlemen, our children deserve the highest consensus, indeed, the highest consensus around the policies we are developing. When it comes, of course, to detect and protect these minors from situations of unemployment, the Council's juvenile teams work in a coordinated manner with the socio-Community teams of the municipalities. I'm going back to it again: we have a development table of Galicia's unique Social Agenda precisely in that direction. What we would like is more personal in the basic social services, in the social services of the municipalities. We've been increasing our agreed plan for two years. What we want is for all of us to put this public resource effort into, adding the efforts of all of us, multiplying the effects for people. I say: we hope to get everyone's involvement from this Social Agenda work table; from the Government, from the Galician Union, they don't doubt it, through the Social Policy Council. But we have to count on the deputies, who also have competence, since the Social Services Act of 2008. I won't be the one to claim those powers. There's a law already from the year 2008 -- which I suppose sometimes laws are made at one time thinking that things are in one way and then things are another -- but there's a law from the year 2008. And we are fully involved in the fact that in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants MPs have an essential role when we talk about social educators. But I say, not only at the expense of Members, we have to join the efforts of all. We, of course, from the Council, are going to do it. I say, we've been increasing the agreed plan for two years, since the Social Policy Council exists. We must also continue to coordinate more with the prosecutor's office and juvenile judges, as we must continue. It is therefore necessary to continue progressing in prevention, where intervention with families is essential, the increasing training of professionals and the awareness of society as a whole. As a society, we have the obligation to seek a healthy, balanced and fully normalized development of our children/children and adolescents, and in that responsibility, together with the entities and with the rest of the administrations and indeed that the rest of the parliamentary groups, which we have had to raise many statements, we will continue to work to continue to make more and more reality those rights collected in international conventions, but above all senses from all the Greeks and all the Greeks, which are the rights of children and girls. They are our future and for them we will continue to work. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u71	Thank you, Counselor. Before moving to the motion point, communicate a change in the order of the day. After talking to the stakeholders, today afternoon we will discuss, apart from the four non-law proposals that we are going to discuss, a fifth, which is the sixth place in the order of non-law proposals. So in the afternoon we will discuss five non-law proposals; the last will be the one in sixth place. And then we'll continue with the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u72	Now we move to the point of motions. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with Sergas' non-structural waiting lists
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u73	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u74	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u75	Thank you, President. We made this motion after the question of the full past, in which we described the bad practice of the Galician Union, a bad tragedy which is already known to Members and Members of this House, but mainly to those who belong to the opposition groups. First of all, by failing to comply with the rules, with the laws requiring them to provide Members and Members of the House with the information requested, in this case in the course of Article 9, and on many occasions also with regard to written questions. Secondly, failing to comply also with ethical principles that should have made that information available to them after they have claimed it, in this case non-structural waiting lists, when they were or were part of the opposition. And thirdly, by violating your own Health Insurance Act, as far as maximum waiting times are concerned, in spite of the derivations that you are making to the private and despite the tricks and traps they systematically carry out to remove people from the structural waiting list. We have also moved our contradiction, our opposition to this procedure that allows them the Health Insurance Act, which was also regulated by decree that entered into force on January 10 of this same year: not to publish more than twice the waiting lists each year. Previously, it was done four times a year, and it was done at different times. They chose to publish those periods that were more favourable to them, in which the lists, a priori, were usually lower. But, in addition to that, it is given — and we have repeated — that the lists that are published are not real lists. Last week the Dental Commission of the Medical College of Ourense warned of the ethical risks of the non-structural waiting list, a few days after the debate we saw in this chamber. And I repeat: you can't move, ask a government to provide information and when a government does the opposite -- I said it in the past, and it needs ethics in politics, too. The reality is that the lists provided are neither near the reals, and in the case of the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex, the patient groups calculated that there might be 2,900 more people on the waiting list. Also in the case of Vigo, the union power stations are calculated or transferred that the list can be — which the Galician Union recognises — of 7,000 people and the real list can be 9,000 more people. And at 16,000 in total, we have to add to Povervisa's waiting list, which, of course, despite being a private with a singular concert, progressively increases its inefficiency and its waiting lists. In the case of Traumatology in Vigo, more than 5,000 people are waiting for a surgical intervention, according to the admission data. I'm surprised that the People's Party's health spokesman will probably comment on something in his intervention soon. But reality, if we consider — and we have already transferred it to the full past — that the opposition is wrong with that data, they should facilitate the actual data of non-structural waiting. We've been asking for these non-structural waiting lists for many years, and we've been denying the possibility of them being known, probably because the data would not be in favour of the Galician board. And all because, of course, as health professionals have denounced, they do all kinds of traps to reduce that waiting list. We also knew a few days after the interrogation the resignation of the chief of Ophthalmology of the Pontevedra-O Salnes Hospital Complex by the high waiting lists, which obviously moved it that it was unable to continue fighting because they were reduced, before the deaf ears of the Galician board of this problem. The truth is, the statements of the Health Counsellor I would call them quite cynical, thanking him for his work, despite the fact that he practically had to go because the Galician Board didn't hear the cry at the high list of expectations in ophthalmology. It must be that the Galician board prefers another type of service chief, like in the case of Ourense, that the head of Ophthalmology service is allowed to breach the Incompatibilities Act by reinventing two private clinics, as well as ophthalmology. Oh, by chance! [[Applause]] That's the reality. All right, you're very good at the heads of friendly service, and we've already talked in the previous full of how they were placed and how these commissions were formed that depend on the Health Council and by which they were granted the head of service to the second person. Well, that reality is there. He actually moved this professional who, of course, the alternative that would be left would be derived from the private, and which did not seem ethical to him, even though he could now work in a private one as well. But when I was head of public service, I understood that was not normal. That should be the usual procedure, but it seems not. We have also denounced in the full past what that decree meant to develop the Health Insurance Act, and that it is now not only legalized to privatize via telephone call to go to a concertator or a private person, but that it is recommended from the administration itself — over 60 days or 45 days of trial — to go to a private person. Obviously, because, if not, and as we have already said here, if you lose the right to guarantee health benefits — Article 9 of your law, of the 2013 Health Insurance Act — And it also happened this week, that set up a alleged pilot plan for Internet consultations in Endocrine Service. I say the alleged pilot plan, because already in Dermatology and in other specialties we are suffering from this kind of aberration in the case of health care. We're not talking about making a telephone consultation between professional colleagues and among different specialities to comment on anything, we're not talking about a brief consultation; we're talking about the substitution of consultations that should be present through telephone consultations, and now it looks like we're also using the Internet. I don't know if the Government of the People's Party knows the digital divide and that a third of the population in Galicia has no access to the wide band. This doesn't matter, we're going to implement this pilot plan. But it's a totally aberrant pilot plan, so the medical unions declare it, that they're not known for a great belligerence with the Government, but that they're lately very tired of how medical professionals are being treated in our country. And I suppose some professionals and some Members and Members of this Chamber will know what semiology is, which is the study of signs and symptoms. Obviously, this cannot be done in a query via the Internet or a telephone query. Clinical examination is carried out, therefore, with an anamnesis, and therefore a patient's health care right is charged in our autonomous community. That deterioration, is it going to lead to what? Artificially reducing waiting lists that are fattened, because of course, it's not you who -- and they don't want to -- reduce them within the public system. And I repeat again a fact that is very relevant, because it is always denied here that the People's Party has increased health care in private. I recall again — and we spoke about this in the morning — reports of the Board of Auditors, reports of the Board of Auditors that say that private health is structural within the public health system; reports of the Board of Auditors that declare this increase in resources for the private sector. And he gave the data from the previous full: simply by taking the budgets from the last three years, from 2016 to 2017, he went up 4 million euros, and from 2017 to 2018, 2 million euros more. But you have to go to the global to see that many of these transfers of public funds to private aren't even part of the specific health concert game. Half of the health budget is already dedicated to the private company, parallel to the quite drastic reduction of the budget in prevention and promotion and primary care. We have to repeat this because we continue to have health centers with 10-day waiting lists and because we continue to have totally unacceptable situations that have been transferred to us on multiple occasions. So today, once again, we come back here to request that Sergas be given sufficient staff and resources to comply with the deadlines laid down in the Health Insurance Act without having to derive them from private, because, if not, why do we reduce waiting times? Of course, to fatten the private health business, to make these non-structural waiting lists public and to fill it with request: to comply with requests for information in the course of Article 9. To me, if this wasn't so serious, I'd have fun seeing them again voting against the law. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u77	Good morning. We have to keep talking about that temuda reality, which is the waiting lists, that reality which, as much as the People's Party insists, can no longer hide; just as they cannot hide that the private health business grows unstoppable at the expense of the deterioration of the public health system. That reality is what makes the income of health companies and health insurance companies more than 16% in the last five years. And we're talking about information from the private health sector itself, which, if we were to talk about other data, surely this information would be even bigger, and while investment in the low public. Public health deteriorates, increases private health, the business continues to add customers, accumulating incomes, health companies and health insurers enjoy the wind of glue and increase their income. Since 2013 more than one million people have added to private health insurance, and it is clear that for this reality to happen there has to be this situation of people described about the potential of public health to respond to their health needs. It takes this deterioration of public health to make people go to private health and make themselves private insurance. That deterioration is needed so people are fined and they look to private health. And for that, for this work, you need accomplices and consensors, and there you have the People's Party acting decisively. Here are the lies about the waiting lists, those makeup waiting lists, that approval of the law of guarantees of waiting times benefits that no one ever believes. Those lies about waiting lists cover an artificial and lying accounting; accounting that breaks down when they give real appointments to people, when they come out of a specialist and they tell you: you have to come back in two months. And you're going to the pre quote and they're telling you: the date is in a year, or two years, or it doesn't date you. In 2 or 3 months, he goes back here and insists on seeing what's going on. That's the reality. Or reality is precisely when a service boss like the one in CHOP Ophthalmology, as we have just reported here, presents his resignation and says questions like that "...the situation whose progression and worsening is going to be exponential. I see myself unable to drive and lead her, and she's going to demand high moral qualities. This project is a project in which I do not believe and in which experience, over the past year, confirms me as impossible to carry out, because even though we put the entire Ophthalmology Service to work tomorrow and late in consultation and cataract surgery — as if there were no other ophthalmological pathology — we wouldn't be able to intervene as many patients as those who will be included in the waiting list." And how is it possible that with this description of the service manager of a reality it turns out that the lists that have hanging are that there are few cataract waiting lists? How is that possible? And if this is a reality of a service boss who dares to say that reality isn't what you say, what is the reality of waiting lists? Why do they systematically vote against the fact that we know the reality of waiting lists? Why do they vote against the fact that we know the reality of waiting lists? Because it has nothing to do with the reality that you want to paint with the reality that the Greeks and the Greeks live has nothing to do with it, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] The reality is, by taking out those quick pathways, which I find very good that they exist, but it doesn't cost it... of course, how bad will it seem to me that very serious cancer pathologies are being dealt with quickly? But not at the cost that the rest of the pathologies have never been treated! Not at all that the rest of the pathologies have never been treated! [[Applause]] Of course not! Of course not! You can't assume that you're paying attention to the most serious pathologies by no longer caring for the rest; you can't do that. So we're going to vote in favour of this initiative that calls for data to be placed. We have tabled an amendment in which we demand another of the issues that have been raised in anguish and despair to many people, and that if they refuse to be treated in private health, you remove them from the waiting list and leave them in a drawer. The amendment to the BNG is to add and what we ask is that all people who are deleted from the waiting lists will be replaced in the structural waiting lists if they do not agree to be treated in private health. They have the right to be treated in public health, because there are people who defend public health, because they want to be treated in public health and because they have the right to be treated in public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u79	...and not to be deleted from those waiting lists if they don't want to be derived from private health. You have the right! Even if you put in a law that doesn't give them that guarantee, we defend that if you have the right, and that's why we hope this amendment will be taken care of. And if we don't, we're going to vote in favour of it, but we're still going to vote for them to have the right to be treated in public health, in spite of you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We have the right to be treated in public health!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u81	Thank you, President. Before we begin our position on this subject, we would like to mention -- it's not the counselor, but if you can transfer it to him -- some cases in which sometimes, when you talk here about humanizing health, you have to do it in a real way and you don't have an excessive cost. We want to transfer to the councillor who please receives a person who is today, as you were before Parliament yesterday, demanding only that they listen to him, because he has a demand to make about a real case he has suffered. All he wants is to be explained and given a satisfactory explanation. I think it's not hard to listen to someone, I think it's possible to ask the counselor to receive this person. If anyone can pass it on to you, let him pass it on, please. [[Applause]] On the issue that we are discussing today on the waiting lists, we will undoubtedly support this initiative. The initiative clearly put forward is something that we have also seen from our group demanding and in what we agree, in this case, with the proposal, and on which we have presented — and unfortunately we believe that we will have to continue — initiatives, because we seem to have some confrontation with other groups in this position. The waiting lists, from our point of view, are an eternal problem. I'm not a problem today, nor am I just a problem here, but I'm an eternal problem that has several ways to solve itself -- or at least try to try -- several ways to deal with it, and of course it doesn't work the same in places as elsewhere. It's important to make a first evaluation. First rating: are we satisfied with what corresponds to the waiting lists? Or does our system work well? Not from our point of view. We don't know what the position of the People's Party is. We haven't heard him say whether he's really happy or not with how the system is dealing with the waiting lists yet. From our point of view, it's not right. Why? For us there are two key elements: one, perhaps. more fundamental than the other, which is the staff, and the other, the planning. We don't really know what the position of the People's Party is either, whether it's satisfactory and everything's fine; and if the situation isn't satisfactory, what are the issues that need to be improved? We know what's the only position they've expressed for now and that, as you can see, they applaud, which is the position the mayor of Vilanova has expressed to him, who says that there are waiting lists because doctors are vague — and he says, who is a doctor — sounds like a doctor. If that's the position of the People's Party, we don't share it. In any case, we think there's a staff problem and staff planning, because there's a number deficit, there's a number shortage of professionals. And besides, because for most professionals the quality of their work, in their work, is poor, and that makes working capacity very difficult. We don't just say it ourselves; tell it to many professionals, as the chief of the Emergency Service said to them in the case of the last peak of the flu, as many professional groups say these days, as we're seeing in the media that many professional groups report, these professionals who often tell us that we have to listen from here; listen to these professionals! unless you want to defend, you have to hear only a few. Also listen -- as mentioned here -- to who was head of the Pontevedra Ophthalmology Service. Maybe some question you mentioned here is certainly interesting, maybe it's of interest to some chiefs of service. You don't have to go too far, beyond Pontevedra: the pathetic and amazing case that you have played a role in supporting leaders in Pontevedra's hospital is quite regrettable, and there's justice to tell you what it was: tendencies, evil. [[Applause]] But in any case, they're paying attention to professionals. The truth is, it's not very hard to find professionals who say the same thing as we all say. Surgical waiting lists are not acceptable. And it's not said by a dangerous Socialist Party politician, saying who was in this case the former president of the European Society of Thoracic Surgery, a highly recognized surgeon, Gonzalo Varela. There are numerous statements from professionals that say there's a problem with waiting lists, mainly because of staff; also because of inefficient, opaque planning, as the Board of Auditors or budgets say, as the political groups say, about non-publishing waiting lists, unless inefficiency is interested. And what is the People's Party's position on this? Do you consider your management to be transparent? Do you consider anyone to be responsible? Whose fault is it? From the mayor of Vigo, surely. But whose fault is it really? From Zapatero! Is anyone responsible for something or does the system work perfectly? They will have the opportunity to explain it, but we have not yet heard whether the system works properly or not; we have heard opposition to the opposition, but we have to make some evaluation of the system. We believe, in fact, that this is the situation, that we have to assume, and that once we assume it we will be able to deal with among all of us a solution that will be solved as far as possible, probably never perfect, but that will solve a problem of waiting lists, not for now but for many years to see, because, in addition, if we solve it among all, it is more possible. We just need one thing: that the People's Party assumes reality and that it's going to work with others, that we're waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u82	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, to start talking about something that seems private or private to me, which is the resignation of the chief of the Ophthalmology Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u84	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u85	I don't have all the information. It surprises, for example, that there is no problem with the other services in Galicia. And in addition, I recommend that you read an open letter that the previous manager has published, that you bring some very clear figures. He speaks of the number of sick people on the list that there were at that time, and even quotes that no sick person was derived from the private and that there were even surgeons in other health areas in that service. I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u86	Quiet. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Vilan. Mrs. Vilan, please be quiet. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, but you can hear everything here. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u87	I don't really know, reading that letter, what happened, I don't know what's going on, I'll try to inform myself of this subject. But, of course, what is clear is that the Council said that a single patient was not derived from the clinic that this person was talking about, and that this person didn't even want to adhere to a protocol that is being used in the rest of the services and was consensual. So, that's the information I have, I'll try to inform myself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u88	Quiet. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Prado. [[Murmurs.]] No, Mrs. Prado, be quiet. You've already spoken! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, but you can't interrupt like that, because if you don't... No, no, silence, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're in the use of the word, Mr. Spokesman. You have to know how to listen, and you have to be able to fit something on everyone's side. This is the parliamentary function: know how to give and how to fit, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. We are always with the mantra of privatization and the content of the Law on the provision of health guarantees, Law 12/2013, which we have approved in this Parliament, of course without the vote of the opposition. The manager of Sergas made it public that since the decree came into force, at the beginning of January, there were 1,293 persons benefited by this decree, for the fulfilment of the maximum times, of which 79 of them were offered to do a test at another Sergas health center, and until the day of the arrival of the manager none of these sick had to resort to concerted health. Today there's one, we're on February 20th, and there's one person who used the Health Insurance Act with means of concerted health. At the same meeting Mr. Fernández Campa made public the waiting list data, which appears to be spoken here but never given a digit. For example, wait half a week: 66.4 days, the lowest figure in the historical series, almost 2 days less than last year. By comparison, at the end of 2016, the average waiting list for surgery in Spain was 115 days, Galicia is the worst. We're talking here about priority one. Priority 1 in Galicia, which is to be fulfilled throughout Spain under 30 days, in Galicia is 18.1 days. The rapid pathways — which now seem to like the opposition — have a response time from the primary care doctor to the 5.9-day hospital doctor, with a 0.7-day check-down compared to the previous year. The first sick consultations, 46.6 days — less than the previous year — and the Spanish average again is 72 days — 46 compared to 72 days. In diagnostic tests, 76.8 days, 9 less than last year. It seems it bothers the opposition that these figures repeat, but I think it's my obligation for the Greeks and the Greeks to have knowledge of what the figures are and not some elubration we hear here a certain frequency. The reality of these figures makes it hard to believe that catastrophic speech of cuts, of lack of personnel. The other day, we were talking about cuts from 2,000 professionals. There are 1,500 professionals more than in 2008, there are 167 primary care doctors more than in 2008, there's more budget, there's more surgical activity, there's more consultations, there's more emergencies, there's more technology, there's more computerization, there's more solving capacity for primary care. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality of public health in Galicia, which, of course, has aspects to improve. [[Applause]] And since our group we urge the Council to take steps to improve health. Let's do what we do. It'll always be better. There's no doubt about it. And with regard to the structural lists, he informed the advisor that there are three types of people who are included in those lists: those who voluntarily ask to change the date of their intervention — of course, always in non-emergency — and those who for medical reasons cannot be operated. You can't operate from cataracts a person who has cough; something as nimial as that prevents it from operating from cataracts. For this type of case there are no management measures, there is no management measures that allow this to be done. And some patients actually offer intervention in concerted centers. But here the councillor said that, although they do not want to go to a concerted center — which is in their right — they do not lose any rights, they operate according to their seniority time and progress either by the ordinary way or by pedestrians. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to reject your motion. The Law of Guarantees is being complied with practically without any derivation to the concerted. I really think you're upset that when the figures are presented, the figures are what they are. I think he's ruining his permanent speech on the Welsh public health disaster. Of course, you go on that road and you'll continue in opposition for many years, because it gives me the feeling that the sermon doesn't buy it from the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u90	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u91	Thank you, President. Let's see, eh!: They don't bother to set up any more initiatives. It seems that the ones who are upset are you having to debate something that they don't like and not the opposition, but at last... First, thank you for the support of the opposition groups. Of course, we will accept the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, which, of course, goes also in the same line as it should be the right to provide within the public system, which the People's Party refuses to accept because they understand that it is right, that benefits are met by transferring to the private sector. We have already said in the previous plenary that the registrable would meet what IDIS asked the private company to do: that the price of 88 million euros would reduce the waiting list in the public. And the truth is, in order not to want to talk about private issues, you've gladly denigrated a professional, Mr. Voicer of the People's Party. All right, that's what they usually do: demonize those who don't think like you, purge them, chase them, like it happened... you've done them a lot of grace, but they've been purging heads of service that aren't after all. [[Murmurs.]] And that is evidenced by the multiple judgments of the Galician High Court of Justice lost by the Galician Board, which transfers power deviation into many of the ascents that effect the Health Council. [[Applause]] Let's move it to the previous plenary: here's what you don't think like we eliminated it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u92	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u93	Yes, yes. They laugh because they have practice in purging and eliminating professionals who don't think like you. I repeat: there are judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that speak of power deviation. We brought some here, I'm not making it up or it's a subjective valuation, it's a court sentence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We've also said in the morning that the money for justice goes there, to pay for what you lose, in the name of all the Greeks and Greeks. If you move that we're not right, if you move that this is a problem of coughs that have some patients, it must be that the 9,000 missing from Vigo waiting list have all cough, they all have cough! Well, if you have so much cough, you should have no problem publishing non-structural waiting lists and telling yourself why each of these people is out of the structural waiting list. We expect you to comply with Article 9 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which comply with the Statute of Self-Government and which, of course, provide the information that we have requested from Members and Members. And then, if we're not right, we'll recognize him in this gallery, Mr. Centeno. Yes, yes, yes, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I understand that what's going to happen this afternoon is that you're going to vote again against the law. And by the way — I'm going to finish now because I don't have time — and I want to remind you again — of the waiting lists for medical and medical professionals, unfortunately. Because they once again denounced the Physiotherapists College this week the waiting lists that there are in physiotherapy and that there is only one professional for over 80,000 people in our country. And so, Mr. Centeno, the reality is that we have deficiencies in the entire public system, including primary care, and you continue to refuse to facilitate public data. We'll keep claiming that information, because its opacity is against the right to health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m., 6 p.m. The session is suspended at two and fifteen minutes and resumed at four and three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u95	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the investment in Galicia planned in the State Budget Project for 2017, as well as the work and conclusions of the State Budget Follow-up Commission
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u96	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u97	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u98	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been two weeks since we've had the Galego Nationalist Block interpelted in this whole face of the People's Party's Government, but the truth is, not through so many days in the middle, we've stopped being stunned. The truth is, we've been used to hearing everything in this chamber, but this time, frankly, we think the German Government has surpassed itself. In the last full question we asked about a number of issues related to the State's compliance with the budgets it set out for Galicia, but we focused much of the interpellation — and it was so recorded — on the commission that the president of the Galician Union announced he had set up for his follow-up. But the truth is, it's less bad the hemerotheque is, because anyone who has heard Mrs. Ethel Vázquez's answer might imagine it was an occurrence that happened to the BNG and not something the president of the board announced. But the hemerotheque speaks for itself, and we have like April 6, 2017, ten months ago, we heard, we read things like, "He did it will set up a commission to monitor the execution of government investments." [[The Voice of Galicia]] We knew issues like, "He himself will preside; the vice president will be part of it, as well as the environmental, environmental and infrastructure advisors." They also said, in Galicia's own official notes, questions such as: "This ad hoc committee will carry out its own central government control exercise to verify that the budgeted figures are materialized." We think that, if you announce this, you should be a little consistent and you shouldn't be surprised that the opposition asks you about how that assessment goes and we exaggerate explanations in this chamber. However, instead of answering that, we attended a sub-real interpellation where we had responses from the Infrastructure Advisor who, in fact, gave us even a chance to reproduce some of them. In addition to generalities, it has been installed in this new strategy of the People's Party — which seems to be going to be a year like this — to make municipal opposition, because instead of telling us what was the result of that commission and whether it existed or not, because we hear in this House — you should have quite little to defend the low political weight Galicia has in the state — as they have just talked about issues such as the Allariz and Pontevedra budgets. And, man, I understand that you may not be happy with the People's Party with the role your concelers carry out in these councils, but it's less than a year to renew them, and wait a bit, but have some respect for this Parliament. [[Applause]] As I say, we asked questions that were easy to answer if there was a minimum of political honesty on the part of the German Government. Even with an adverb of denial or affirmation, a "yes" or "no", they might have answered whether or not that commission exists, and then we could, according to that, ask for more results. A question which, moreover, Mrs Pontón has already raised — and I repeat — in the debate of the state of the nation to Mr Feijóo, without any great novelty, and we insist again, because it is a very clear question: Mr. People's Party, is there such a commission or not? I hope, after these fifteen days of reflection they've had, that they can answer something more and clarify whether it's actually a smoke curtain, as it seems to us from the BNG, or if there's another question. Because the truth is that the evidence of the analysis of these last ten months seems to indicate that, instead of being that commission a new mystery of humanity, it is simply a new scam and a new lie of Mr.Núñez Feijóo, who takes the Greek Parliament and takes the yellow Parliament and takes the painting as well. The question is that Mr. Feijóo has literally seen himself quarried, given the cutback that presupposes the 2017 budgets for our country, and it didn't have any better occurrence. Because the truth is quite difficult to justify that at a time of recovery of the macroeconomic framework, that at a time of increase in addition to spending capacity and collection — which has reached levels similar to the 2007 liquidation — Galicia, on the other hand, suffers the greatest cut in history, unprecedented discrimination, which has left the estimate of expenditure in less than EUR 1 billion, a territorialized investment which has been the second most intense of the entire state in absolute terms and the third if we are going to have relative terms, because we are talking about nothing more and nothing less than EUR 442 million, which would mean a lot to compensate for the lack of investment in recent years; investments that must also insist that, despite the time of crisis that we have been going through and of economic recession, it is true that in other parts of the State did not have the impact that had on our country. What is clear from the Galego Nationalist Block — we have it very clearly — is that with the current political and economic model and the economic relationship we have with the state, where most of the resources are absorbed, it is not to receive this armed robbery, because it has important repercussions on our daily lives. In that sense, it is also summed up that, at that great cut, we are used to and used to very low execution. So it's a matter that is important to us, and we understand that this follow-up, whether through this commission or other formulas, is not sufficiently clear by the People's Party. Since April, since that incident the President of the Board has had, because the truth is, we haven't had any great news. Whether or not it exists is not known. We do not know — we asked him for written answers, too, and by Article 9 — at last who was a part of that committee or not; we do not know whether he has some written report and will at some point be referred to the Greek Parliament about it, even though, according to the work plan that you predicted, we would already have to have at least three meetings with information from that committee. We don't know either, they didn't want to answer what kind of information they're handling, if it's just public and accessible to all and through the information they periodically extract from ministries or if they have some kind of relationship, different information to the central government. His star argument was that these budgets were going to run at a hundred percent and that Galicia would therefore go out winning, but at this point we know nothing but vanity. Because the truth is, ten months later, what we basically have, what we got fifteen days ago is vagueness. And so we think it's time that, apart from doing a phantom commission and a lying policy, at least if they try a little bit to conceal, to do their duties now, even if it's late. And really, the truth is, by looking back years and months ago, we don't have too many reasons to trust the People's Party. That is why we insist so much on this question of the follow-up to the State budgets. Because, although it is true that the 2017 budgets were approved by the Commission and, therefore, the index for the first half of the year is not indicative, because it is smaller than in other routes, it is also true that in the last full year —2016 — the budget that was scheduled for Galicia was executed at 54.5 % of the investment initially approved, something which is a clear aggravating, because, while for Galicia was executed less than 60%, the rest of the state had a global execution greater than 100 percent, i.e. double. Let's continue for ministries. Some as important for the pending tasks in our country as that of Development have had a 46.7% execution in Galicia and in the state nearly twice as much. And so we could go on with so many other issues, that by the model of the relationship we have, increasingly recentralised with the state, they affect all the Greeks and the Greeks in a significant way. That is why, for all these matters, we bring this motion from this interpellation, hoping that they have pondered these days and given their approval. First of all, we are betting on a large block that focuses on real and effective follow-up by the State. That's a responsibility that corresponds to the whole of this chamber, but especially to you, who theoretically govern this country. We therefore demand that the Committee draw up and forward to the German Parliament for its debate within one month a detailed report on the information gathered and the conclusions of the follow-up committee, which Mr Núñez Feijóo himself said would be disappointing if it did not occur. So, by sharing that question — without it being used as a precedent — with our president, we understand that this chamber must follow up and correct that historic aggravation to which its colleagues in Madrid have condemned us. And, secondly, another big block centers demands on basic infrastructure investments for the period 2018-2020, which we understand has to be a country position to demand for 2018 and demand from the state, which implies that at least we would have to compensate Galicia with an investment of EUR 4 billion to compensate for the de-investment and ill-treatment of our country in recent years. In that sense, as I am running out of my time, it seems to us that the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, which comes to complete this battery that I will break down later, but that we focus on correcting the historical aggravation with both the modernization and development of the railway and the aspects that have to do with road safety, which has a huge impact on our country, as well as issues related to the improvement of ports and airports, which continue to be pending year after year. Questions — and I am finished now — all of them important and to this day in the hands of the State, which, sheltered under that model of unjust relationship and under that policy of absolute self-comprehension and submission that they practice from San Caetano, derive in which, as other territories advance, Galicia continues to remain more and more in the last place. So we understand that it's time to crash on the table and demand a change of course to correct these issues. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. In the 1980s and 1990s, a French philosopher, Jean Baudrillard, spoke of bleaching history and talking about the concept of simulation. I believe, Mrs. Presas, that the truth is that perseverance is a merit — no doubt — but I think we are faced with a paradigmatic example of what is a simulation. And, above all, we found ourselves in this situation that we were in this Parliament before 2011, when there was a government in the Spanish Government presided over by a socialist president, and we recall the almost pathological anxieties of the People's Party on the topic of the major infrastructures of Galicia. We remember some arguments, arguments that we could certainly share and that used the People's Party at that time. Indeed, the construction of large infrastructure has an immediate multiplier effect on many other economic activities — accepted —. I had it in the year 2010 and I had it in the year 2015. There was no relevant methodological change that reduced the impact of infrastructure constructions on this crisis-exit period, and if so, of course this humility does not know it. It also means an increase in the amount of physical capital and therefore improves the conditions for increasing productive activity and job creation—accepted—; it happened at that time, but it still happens now. And of course, it had very important effects in other sectors, such as tourism. I want to give you some data. I would like to recall, first, that in 2015, 2016 and 2017 this country has grown to 3% of GDP. Indeed, this is an objective macroeconomic data, recognised by Eurostat, and therefore we have found it. And that government in Spain spent 5% of that GDP on infrastructure in 2008; in 2016 — data from 2017 are not yet — 1.9%, i.e. about a little more than a third, exactly 37%. So this is the situation in which these infrastructures were an element of fundamental economic dynamisation, in which these infrastructures were an element of fundamental physical capital allocation, and all that has disappeared from Mr Feijóo's political scenario, in which it is actually limited to claiming — in a way let us say that it langulates, in a almost poetic sense of the term — that the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Development, fulfils. I remember some expression — more precisely from a Dodge City Hall — by Mr. Rueda saying — and I quote it textually — on March 21, 2011: "José Blanco is ten days left to include the departure from AVE to Galicia in the Official State Gazette." The truth is, given this, only Smith & Wesson was missing in his hand. But, unfortunately, then Mrs. Pastor took it with a certain relaxation — as you might say in some way —. With so much relaxation he took it that — I would remind him — there are 15 kilometers between Madrid and Santiago de Compostela that are in limbo, and it only happens in the planning and railway construction of all Spain in this case. I'm sure the members of the Ourense People's Party are delighted with those 15 kilometres between Taboadela and Ourense, in which a train of high rail benefits will actually arrive at Taboadela and will move on to a line built in 1950, for now without electrifying, and so I know... if you're on that, but that's what would be good if you had been there a long time. [[Murmurs.]] Of course you're in it! Not unless they're in that, at the same time they were in it to make a direct line of Ourense with the Meseta which, instead of being inaugurated in 1860, was inaugurated in 1955. [[Murmurs.]] So you're going to be too long on that. [[Applause]] Of course, that's the point! I'm glad, in any case, they're in that. It's a shame that, when they're at it, they're also doing the election programs of the People's Party. In the year 2009 — I have three: 2009, 2012 and 2016, because it is always illustrative — the German Government would assume the execution of the Vigo-Pontevedra-Ourense high-speed frame. Manda! I say "command" for not saying anything else, but command, uh, command! Direct access from the Meseta to Vigo, as well as the Ourense-Lugo high-speed stretch. Good. In 2012, "cooperating in a loyal manner with the General Government of the State" -- at that time Rajoy was already ruling in Madrid -- "cooperating in a loyal way with the General Government of the State." This is the same as "which falls Spain, which we will already raise." Well, they ruled others and then... yes, yes, it didn't fall, of course it didn't fall, actually, it didn't fall. [[Murmurs.]] Well, quite done, that Chimpo Lehman Brothers and now is Vice-President of the European Central Bank. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not bad. It's not bad. [[Applause]] Of course! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u101	Quiet, quiet, quiet, please, because if you don't... No, no, I'm drawing your attention in this case to those of the PP. Quiet. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u102	Home! Poor people, they didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u103	No, no, that's why. I just know who I have to call, and I beg you, please keep quiet. And you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u104	I'm done right now. 2016 programme — there is nothing —: "We will push the high speed to Lugo. The lights cannot stand at the high speed doors and must take the necessary steps to get the high speed from Ourense to Lugo. The expansion of the Atlantic axis will be promoted to the Portuguese border, ending the connection of the main cities on the western peninsula facade", which also included Ferrol. Ladies and gentlemen, undoubtedly Baudrillard, I undoubtedly use some budget levels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u106	...and execution," Mrs. Presas said, "absolutely embarrassing. And in the meantime, this humble deputy neither listening to nor reading the counsellor's answer found out whether or not there is a bilateral commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u107	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u108	Thank you, President, good afternoon to all and to all. I believe that the interesting debate, the centre of this debate, is in how the Galician Board is dealing with the relationship with the State Government in the face of the fall of State budgets dedicated to Galicia and in the face of the historical debt that the State has with Galicia, a historic debt recognised by the Infrastructure Counsellor in the inquiry of fifteen days ago, which did not answer any of the questions that the BNG asked it, but did give us this sentence, which is at least a recognition of the Infrastructure Counsellor that there exists a historical debt with Galicia, which must be paid off. And the importance of this problem and this budget fall has to do with the problems Galicia has for its social and economic development. With this fall of budgets, we are leaving Galicia on the line of the European freight train, which has been made the right infrastructure and if the state had made its investments, we would probably not now have the difficulties we have, with all that it means. Therefore, the consequences of this fall are disastrous for Galicia. The situation with regard to state infrastructure is what it is. In rail transport we have Ferrol and Lugo with lines from the 19th century. We have the southern exit to Portugal pending. We have the unending logistics network, which directly affects us in the attachment around commodities. We have the cantabrian corridor, which was the old Febe line, which last year accounted for 30% of all the incidences of the surrounding state, reaching eight of the nine machines damaged. We have intermodality, which, for the moment, remains only headlines. We have the problems with AP-9, the worst concessionaire, the one that has the greatest sinisterity, high prices, more time paying the highway. We have Galicia turned into a black spot where it has to do with state networks. We have the highest concentration of black dots in the conventional network, the highway with the highest concentration of sinisterity and the highway with the highest concentration of sinisterity. And with this situation, the state is shrinking. At this point in execution — because the other day was budget figures — in Galicia state budgets are returning to 2004 levels are below 2004 levels, even in 2002, when it was already very low execution. In 2006 there are 551 million euros executed of 1,364, which is around 40% of the executed. And 2017 goes the same way. And this is the reality. The reality is that state budgets are falling primarily into execution, not so much into the budget. And here's the million of the debate. In view of this situation, this clear fall in budgets, we see how the Galician Union is acting. We understand that in the face of this situation a government that defends the interests of citizenship must stand firm in front of the Government of State to try to improve the situation. But what we're seeing is the opposite: we're seeing a Mr. Feijóo saying that Development is taking fantastically with Galicia; we see even the spokesperson of the People's Group, Mr. Puy, making the same kind of statements; and we also see the Infrastructure Advisor justifying the delays of the AVE, which even Adef himself had to go out and correct his words. And this is the behavior that the Galician Union is having in the face of this situation. And this is the grave issue of this matter, and this is where we have to demand it. And the worst of all is in the context where all this is going on, because this is happening as state budgets are growing, because the advantaged student of Mr. Montoro, the queen of cuts and compliance with the deficit, because they do it to the most profitable one has been to the state in recent years, who has preferred to be indebted to the bank, even though it costs the Greeks more, saving the costs to the state. And above all this extra suffering that Mr. Feijóo makes Galicia do to favor the Government of the State, we see that the Government of the State comes to pay us with this currency, investing less in Galicia. So we will have to ask why Feijóo is making all these efforts, so that the Government of the Union is making all these efforts, what are the benefits that the People's Party derives from all these efforts which the Government of the Union of Galicia makes, because it is evident that Galician citizenship is not favouring it. He said the other day to the Infrastructure Advisor that, weekly, even almost daily, they were following the evolution of budgets, of state investment. However, he gave absolutely no data. If you follow him every week, every day, you'll see that the budgets are not running and that this is detrimental to us. I was saying the other day to the advisor that they were correcting the historical debt. It's fantastic that they recognize there's a historical debt. But it's just that the historical debt you've made is basically yours, and you just have to see the budget execution of the last fifteen years to see that this historical debt has a responsibility, which is the People's Party. So, we wait — well, the truth is we don't expect it — we would like the People's Party to stop being militant of the People's Party and its girator friends and start being really militant of Galicia, as they say. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u109	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I'd like to make a series of general considerations to begin with. We are with a non-law proposal that speaks of state budgets that do not yet have the necessary support from Congress. Of course, I know that the BNG, the proposed group, little can do with this, because the Greeks didn't want to be represented in Madrid, but the rest of the groups that just talked about, I think in this sense they could do something. I remind them of our president's proposal a few weeks ago, when he told them that we would defend these proposals if the Greek Members of his parties were to support them and support the budgets and so we could have budgets in Madrid. But, of course, it's easier, Mr. Cal, to get here with a speech and say it's not us, but you're asking AVE for Burgos, instead of defending these investments in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u111	Yes, yes, you're right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u112	...I hope... mostly all the time. That's the same thing to me, but time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u113	Don't worry. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u114	Anyway, I'm used to the topics they try when they don't like the arguments, but especially all the time. Second consideration, if I may. When all autonomic governments, and our president-in-chief, are discussing a transcendent thing like what's all the new autonomic funding, and where should you be working and helping in this line, what are you doing? For these demagogic proposals, generate demagogic and short-distance noise. Instead of focusing on the discussion and supporting the Government and its President in the truly important discussion that is taking place in Spain, because it is not. When I saw this interrogation I thought they were going to go on that line, I hope that the PSOE tomorrow will go on that line. And look if it's demagogic because what you know about some of these managements and investments knows that for some of the things they ask for, for all the will you have, you have to do projects, environmental processing and bidding, and you can't do it within the time required. See if they're just going to the gallery, to the photo and to the headline instead of working on that budget policy discussion. And I have to remind them again -- I know you don't like it -- that Junta is tracking all those investments, and, as the advisor said the other day, she's weekly waiting for those investments and she's going to keep doing it, of course. And you will continue to come to this Parliament and give all the explanations and data you need. But, on the other hand, apart from continuing to defend those works, I find it strange that they leave works out of the list. If that AVE or that train carries the benefits with Lugo-Ourense, or the highways that are important to Galicia's vertebration, they are left out of their interests. But, look, what this government is working on is to ensure, Mr. Losada, that AVE is in operation and we have those accesses from Galicia with the Meseta in 2019. Not like when his friend was a minister, who, where did the AVE end? in Valladolid. But yes, the same friend who said, the same friend who said, "I don't introduce myself again to the mayor if the AVE doesn't reach Vigo in 2012. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those are your friend's words. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case — I know, I know you don't like to hear it — we can have that discussion about AVE and the commitments and the investment of execution whenever you want, Mr. Losada. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because if something characterizes PSOE's governments, it's a lot to promise, but when they run, they leave the works to "debt and they'll be done." But look, when we compared objective data, in 2008, when the BNG ruled in Galicia, and besides they were friends and they supported the Government in Madrid, how much was the investment in Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] Eight percent of the budget. Today 11% of the total investment, we are the second community in per capita investment. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, it's not just about this year 2017; in 2016 and 2015 more than 12%; in 2014, 13.8. I sincerely believe that next to 8%, three more points, the worst of the years you were doing when you were supporting the socialist government. 30% more investment than when you ruled and supported. And, Mrs. Presas, since you like the subject of the news, look, I have two here: "The BNG submits its support for the budget to equip Galicia with security." They didn't, we're now making those commitments. And I read another one, look: "2008, Zapatero ignores the agreement with the BNG for the second time to push forwards pending," for the second time! Of course, now I understand why you want to monitor, you've been deceived so many times by socialists who think that all governments are equal, but no! Look, don't fool Galicia as the BNG lords have been tricked by their PSOE partners. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, the BNG was right when they were asked to vote in budgets in exchange for things and then they weren't done or started, and we can talk about the list they want when they want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, cut will be yours, because this government, I say, has invested 30% more than the best of its years in Galicia. He'll continue to work and defend Galicia's interests. He will continue to defend those budgetary investments, he will continue to demand what he believes is just for Galicia and continue to drive all those necessary infrastructures. But, in any case, honestly, BNG's control, if it's like the one Zapatero did, then we're going wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u115	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u116	First, thank the opposition groups for their support. Well, I'm going in. One of the most repeated arguments by Mrs Vázquez, and now by the spokesperson of the People's Party, is as an argument to self-justify that the BNG does not have representation in Madrid. But, look, what you should worry about is not that the BNG has no representation in Madrid — which gives you a little more peace of mind — but that you don't do your job, either in the German Parliament or in the Spanish Congress. That's the problem! [[Applause]] But fortunately, there is nationalism in this country and that is why we will continue to insist on this issue. [[Applause]] And what's already the big deal is that even above the magnet that's the question and having to come here to look at a ghost commission that doesn't exist and a follow-up that doesn't exist, that takes and that gets you, too, into the financing model bowl, telling us that we don't care about that subject. You're not interested! Stop doing the ridiculous thing in a tour of regions around here and do what we've been asking, not only in this legislation, but in the previous one, which is that you feel talking about in Parliament as a model. [[Applause]] Why, do you know what they have in common about funding and the phantom commission? For neither one nor another has this Parliament a document in which you explain something you're doing. So we have to figure out that you're looking into the air in investments to Galicia, and looking into the air on the financing issue; that you should be concerned that you know BNG's position on both issues and that we don't know what the position of the German Government is. [[Applause]] I also made myself that torturer argument that they have of 8% and so on. Of course, 2,000 million seemed little, but 800 is "the worst thing," let's get to the moon from today to tomorrow! [[Murmurs.]] And look, indeed, at the Galego Nationalist Block gave its support to State budgets and one of the issues that it demanded was a follow-up commission. But do you know you made the Nationalist Block Galego when the Socialist Party broke that promise? They protested, don't shut up like you do. [[Murmurs.]] And you know who else was asking, following the BNG car, that follow-up? You have initiatives in the Congress of Deputies: in fact, you, what happens is that you were in the opposition and then another story was applied. But now that you rule this country -- or they make them govern -- they don't have the same concern; so we have to accumulate the same breaches. [[Applause]] So that's what you should review, because we found that year by year the execution is going down, and since 2009, where the recognized obligations, and not the theory, rather than doubling the budget, what they've supposed was a real execution of 221%, the degree of execution of the actual investments of the General Government of the State in Galicia was going down year by year to 54% in 2016. This — which I have already taught you the other day, Counsellor — is liquidated investment in productive infrastructures, i.e. real execution, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] And then you can see how since 2000 there's been a slight increase, we have a peak there, precisely matching that pressure that the Galician Nationalist Block made. And this black curve comes down strangely — I understand that many people don't see it, but you see a black curve, which is that black ostracism that Mr. Rajoy condemns us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u117	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u118	...with his silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u120	Just look at the data! Look at the data! [[Applause]] I'll leave them, it's okay! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That's the point, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u121	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u122	So there are two options: or they start to make the German Government, they're already sorry to create that commission, because in theory that's what you should do every day from San Caetano, even though they don't actually do it. Stop elubrations, and almost daily follow-up will bring data to this Parliament and see what real execution there is to compensate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u124	...the lack of investment with this country since you rule in the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to access to public employment for persons with intellectual disabilities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u126	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u127	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u128	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. In the previous plenary session, we called on the Councillor of Fairy, in this case the Public Service, too, about the situation of people with disabilities in the labour market. And it seems to us that it is shameful and irreplaceable that in a society called democratic, in the middle of the 21st century – – which should fight for equal opportunities – these people are in such a precarious and dramatic situation. Today we bring this initiative with the belief also that getting a decent job is for any citizen a way to find that anxious personal autonomy. A step towards personal satisfaction, towards an increase in self-esteem, towards that reinforcement and integration itself. In the case of persons with disabilities, these issues are even more important because of the clear discrimination they find themselves in. That's why the prejudices that pursue them in every sphere of their lives. The serious situation in the labour market for people with disabilities is not exclusive to the Autonomous Community of Wales, but it is true that the data we know — through the Employment Report of Persons with Disabilities, which was published by the INI — are of particular concern to us, because they show that the lowest rate of activity for all is still being consolidated in this autonomous community, is 27.8%, and we have 21% less assets than the state average. Another data, according to the Labour Market Observatory of the ONCE Foundation, people with disabilities charge in Galicia EUR 3,500 less than the rest of the people. And the figures are even more worrying and more dramatic in the case of people with intellectual disabilities and mental illness. We need, as a country that seeks social progress, to move towards a society in which having different capacities does not mean having less opportunities, including the workplace. And for that, ladies and gentlemen, there is politics, the engine of social change that we must put in place today through this initiative. From the Socialist Group we have made it clear that the first step is to establish itself as one of the priorities of this Government, within its employment policies, to increase the rates of activity and occupation of persons with disabilities. And the first thing you have to set an example in this matter is the public administration itself, the German Government itself. That is why we consider it serious and completely unacceptable that what we know a few weeks ago about the aid of the Galician Union's cooperation plan with Down Galicia; an entity that does a great job and has cut down this very important plan for training, for employment, for employment, for employment and school inclusion in 176,000 euros. This is going to assume that these boys and girls who went two days a week because they are going to go one day, and that the situation and the goals to cover these plans — which are already difficult — are more complicated. To set an example for the Galician People's Administration itself, of course, with the equal treatment we've been demanding, too, for a long time; ensuring access, promotion to jobs and supply, too. And for that, within the many proposals, we stress that ensuring this continuity of oppositions, of selective processes, of the first selective process that took place for people with intellectual disabilities — that we value positively — but that an isolated fact is completely insufficient. That is why we want to strengthen this commitment not only in the Government of Galicia, but in all the instrumental entities that integrate it. Once this process is overcome and taken office and becomes official, it is important that those people who have made tremendous efforts to pass those selective processes — and the Socialist Group congratulates us from here, too, those who have passed that first process — do not put a brake on them and do not have to leave their jobs because they are not adapted to their needs. That's what I have to guarantee you, too. And for those who overcome selective processes and believe their disability and compatibility with tasks, what do we do? For the same thing that we do with all and all, ladies and gentlemen: to create a temporary work bag that is indeed a long-standing promise of the Greek Government, which is being repeated, which is being said to be working on it, but that it must be put into action immediately. The other day, we were told by the Public Service Counsellor that we were pioneers. It's not true that we're pioneers, they just passed a law in Andalusia, a pioneer law that blinds these rights, which turns into rights issues that were not yet reflected as such. There are important initiatives also in other autonomous communities, such as Castile-A Mancha, which have already started in 2011. In addition to ensuring equality in the Greek Public Administration itself, the Government cannot continue to look elsewhere at what is happening with the non-compliance of companies' reserve quotas for persons with disabilities. We have to start with the basics, we have to ensure that these job reserves are met in companies, and we have to make regular and comprehensive assessments of the employment situation in the employment centres. We are finding that there is a very high degree of precariousness, much more than in the ordinary labour market, with a state agreement which is much less than the sectoral agreements, and the Greek Public Administration has a responsibility to do so and has to focus on this subject as well. We are aware that monitoring the control of the law is not enough to change this situation in which people with disabilities find themselves, in particular people with intellectual disabilities. So we need to strengthen the role of the Public Employment Service. It is essential, because so far the people who have achieved through this system to become part of the labour market are practically anecdotal cases. It is therefore time to start making a policy that is not improvised, to set up a roadmap, also in employment for people with disabilities, which has as its objective public and private regular employment, supported employment, protected employment in special employment centres, working keys, training for employment and self-employment. And we have been asking for it in this motion and for it to be put in place, for it to be prepared and urgently implemented a plan of employment for people with disabilities in Galicia, which must, of course, be carried out with the competent advisors, with the disabled, with the Fegamp itself, with the business and trade unions. We think that among all of us we must meet and we must agree to make that plan a reality. A plan that must collect very important aspects and which are key within the labour market, both for access to it and also for its promotion: training and safety and health at work, which are two key issues. It can't be the prevention of work risks an excuse not to integrate people with disabilities into the labour market. And there is a need to alleviate the double discrimination that women with disabilities suffer, because they are women — as we all do — and also because they have special abilities. Look, ladies and gentlemen, for socialists integration and equal opportunities is part of the foundation of our ideology, which is what we defend and what we believe. We from the PSdEG today are not going to ask the majority group of this camera, the Popular Group, to change their ideology, what we ask of them is that they have enough empathy to put themselves in place of those thousands of people who are willing to work, who find themselves with tremendous frustration and those who are denied every day the right to do so simply because they are as they are. What we ask them to vote for this initiative is that they transform all this accumulated frustration into hope and a desire to find a future and to have a personal autonomy that they have been claiming through entities, and themselves individually, for a long time. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u130	Such initiatives are still very necessary, since there is no equal opportunity; it is a lie to the extent that collectives like people with functional diversity continue to have very great difficulties in accessing the labour market. And given that employment is the main factor of social inclusion in our societies, it is clear that it is essential that this collective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u131	A lot of noise. Very annoying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u132	Yes, indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u133	Yes, I'm very upset who's in the use of the word. Please, a little silence. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u134	Indeed, labour market inclusion policies have much more need for vulnerable groups like this one. In this case, our country, as in so many other labour indicators, has a deficit with regard to the state, because if the rate of activity among people with functional diversity on the state average is 35.2%, according to the 2016 IGE data, we are at 27.8% in our country, leading the ranking to a negative indicator. We need to increase that rate of activity in order to precisely enable personal autonomy. Moreover, as the proponent has already pointed out, through the Public Employment Service, the generated employment is residual. In Galicia, 575 indefinite contracts were made for persons with disabilities through this service in 2016. They're ESC data, they're not En Marea or PSdeg or BNG data. It was 1,311 temporary jobs, and in total they were hired only through this Public Employment Service 1,113 men with disabilities in front of 772 women; i.e., it is ironic what is contracted through the Public Employment Service, and once again we have the gap between men and women, that in this collective, in people with functional diversity, it is true that as regards the pay divide it is not equal to the gap that exists at general level, why? Because the rate of activity and the low-wage rate is minimal in both groups, in men and women, i.e. inequality is about the general. According to Odismet, 14,296 contracts were concluded in 2015 for persons with disabilities in Galicia, in 2016 there were only 4,938 specific disability contracts. There's also the pay gap, which is the worst you've ever mentioned the proponent. But in addition to this data — and I would like to put an end to this — they are more alarming than people with disabilities because of mental illness, which you have already referred to by the PSdEG spokesman. Because the Social Policy Council's own data indicate that there were 29,814 persons with disabilities in Galicia due to mental illness, of whom less than 5% — less than 5% — have stable employment and must also fight against this social stigmatization. Well, for jumping, because I think I've had half a minute before, so I'll try to condense. The special employment centres, which should enable them to enter that ordinary labour market, are not serving this purpose. That is to say, all the funds put by the Public Administration for job promotion through them at the end are not seen in the integration data into the normal labour market. Together with the fact that in the last decade where employment was most boosted it was in these special employment centres — and as you have already pointed out the proposal for the collective agreement of special employment centres is smaller than the sectoral reference agreements — we have to say that the result is that the workers of the special employment centres charge EUR 36 per day on average, compared to the 47 average wages per day in an ordinary company. That is why it is so fundamental and that is why one of our amendments is to try — we know of the difficulties of our proposals — that these special employment centres conventions are equal to the sectoral conventions and, on the other hand, to promote programmes for transition from protected employment to the ordinary system wherever possible. Because there is, in addition, another circumstance. One thing is that these special employment centres are managed by disability institutions and that there are multinational companies that use special employment centres to outsource part of their production to lower wages. That is not tolerable, and against that we must fight, and hence our support for that step of increasing labour inspection. So if we want the social integration of people with functional diversity, one of the prerequisites is integration into that ordinary labour market and also into the public administration. In that sense, In Marea has also registered initiatives to meet these reserve quotas, both in the private company of more than 50 workers and in the public administration. Here if I have to say, in all colors, that in the public administration, in the councils, in parallel administration is not being complied with, you have to guarantee that reserve quota. Then, too, another fundamental element is the need for universal accessibility. It is an obstacle to being able to have the same conditions of access to the labour market as — as the proposal pointed out — to remain in the workplace. Universal accessibility must be guaranteed. And we also leave for this half-minute that we have the training left. Because according to data from the Disability Observatory, the level of population studies with disabilities in Galicia has been observed — if we look at this level of studies — that 11.6% has achieved higher education, which is 3.7 points from the average of the collective at the state level, but more than 23 points from the population without functional diversity. That is why we also denounce this cut in training programmes, and that is why we will support this motion even if our amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u135	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u136	Good afternoon. We are debating an extensive, very extensive motion, Mrs President of the Socialist Party, which, as you have said on other occasions, could be treated almost as an electoral programme, and that is why we have not amended it, because we could actually address aspects that are not or could even nuance some of what it is, but what we agree is that it is a lot of what we are about to do on this subject. Although policies have long been put in place to facilitate the access of the collective of people with disabilities, with functional diversity, special employment centres, employment centres, quotas in the public sector and large businesses, bonuses -- many and various aspects -- this has meant an increase in the incorporation into the working life of these people, but, of course, it is not satisfactory; the rates of activity, occupation, are still well below what would be desirable, and at very distant levels of people who do not have these kinds of problems. Low access to employment, therefore high unemployment rates, low incomes. And the numerous legal measures put in place are still insufficient to give an effective battle to this reality. There are many incentives for recruitment of persons with disabilities that should not — from the point of view of the BNG — be considered as no privilege, but as a way of compensating for the worst starting situation in which this collective is located. And despite these legal forecasts, there is still an important degree of discrimination in this area as regards the promotion of personal autonomy in the workplace, measured — as I said — by both the rate of activity and the level of unemployment. As far as access to public employment is concerned, one of the main demands in the field of employment for a long time has been made by the different associations and organizations working with disabilities is the reform of the means of access to public service to ensure a reserve quota in the different selective processes. Without this requirement it is very difficult, almost impossible, that people affected by some disabilities can compete with people who do not suffer them; in most cases the tests are based on capacities in which they are inferior to conditions, their abilities are adequate to perform certain functions whenever they protect and adapt these circumstances. The reserve quota in the public sector is not only an important work bag for disability but also for the legitimization of public policies. So it's important that there is this reservation, but not just for the reservation itself, but for what it means as a mirror that the private company also makes an effect called. So it's obvious that much remains to be done and that you go very slowly working in this direction, which we agree that you have to take steps more intensively. And in this sense, we think we have to incorporate, and I say we haven't made any amendments, but we'll have to work in that direction. The subject must also be included in the recruitment lists, where in the Public Service this field is to be developed more intensively. And what is in the private sector, in the workplace, is obviously work for people affected by some kind of intensity, if for people in general it is an area of realization, for these people, it fits, even more, and it is about that for them to be in an even more intense way. The chances of people with disabilities finding jobs are still even lower and in a very important part of companies having to adapt jobs is a barrier that a very important part is not willing to assume, so since public authorities have to encourage that to be so. So in those companies with more than 50 workers – who by law have the obligation to reserve squares – who are pending, that the labour inspectorate should act in those fields. And that is why – – I insist – although there are many of the issues involved in the initiative, to which the amendments tabled by En Marea are added, it is clear that, despite all the issues raised, there are still many of the issues left to be worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Today we are debating a motion by the Socialist Group, as a result of the appeal of the full past, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to access to public employment for people with intellectual disabilities. But, in fact, Mrs. Blanco, it is a complete amendment to the policy of the Greek Government in this matter. A motion consisting of 9 points and 19 paragraphs. I agree with you, Mrs. Prado Cores, that more than a motion this looks like an election program. So, as you will understand, in five minutes I don't have time to go over all those points, but what if I can tell you clearly is that what the German Government is doing in disability policy has results. The truth is that the German Government has made it clear here when it was the councillor of Fairy in this Chamber and has told us that he has no other objective than that of people with disabilities who have more and more opportunities to go to work. I would like to remind you that the current government itself was the first to push a public employment call to the collective with people with intellectual disabilities, the agreement was signed with Fademga and Down Galicia last year, in March 2016. Here, the same advisor to Fairy offered board assistance to any Galician council that was interested in doing the same. The council of Ourense, ruled by the People's Party, has already contacted the Town Council to reserve jobs at the next OPE for people with disabilities. In councils where the Socialist Group governs, we don't know; moreover, the House of Ourense has also expressed its interest in this issue. In the Deputation of Lugo, the Coruña and Pontevedra, where you rule, did you care about this? We don't know either. One thing is preaching, Mrs. White, and another to give wheat. And if you seem ashamed and irresponsible, you're right, you can be ashamed and unresponsible, but tell the Socialist Party mayors too, who rule in Galicia Town Councils and don't hire people with disabilities. [[Applause]] One of the priorities of the Union is the drive for employment. Even in all government support programmes in the area of employment, people with disabilities have a higher aid intensity than 25% more. In addition, there are specific measures to promote employment, measures to further strengthen special employment centres and jobs in the company; this year, for example, they have an budget of 14 million euros, which is nothing negligible. Persons with disabilities have a preference in the training courses for unemployed workers and receive a grant of assistance, and Junta also has initiatives to support non-profit organizations representing people with disabilities. Among these aids could be the recruitment of employment guidance officers and employment agents, integrated employment programmes or cooperation programmes, with the aim precisely of facilitating the integration of people with disabilities; insufficient, certainly, if you are right, there must be many more. But these measures, as I said at the outset, are producing results. According to INE, in 2016 there were 26% more persons with disabilities officially recognized as active than in 2009. In fact, the rate of activity has grown at almost five points in the last two years. Although he's right, he's low, but in the last two years -- I repeat -- he's grown five points. Even so, people with disabilities registered at employment offices have been reduced by almost 9% since 2014. On the other hand, more than 18,000 contracts were signed last year with people with disabilities and more than half were full-time. These are the results of government policies that you don't like, but I think 18,000 people are hired because of these policies if they seem right. I'll give you more data. Between 2009 and 2017, the number of contracts allocated to persons with disabilities has doubled, and there are more than 30% of contracts increased, as well as full-time contracts, more than 71%. On the contrary — I know that you will not like this, but it is reality — during the Bipartite contracts with these groups have decreased by 4%, and the fall in indefinite contracts and the full-time has increased by 21.5% the first and 6.7% the second. So let the government continue to apply these policies that give results and not theirs, that from our experience they don't give them very good. It would be good for everyone to recognize what is being done right, and support it as well. We think that people with disabilities want to be solved by their problems and we stop political struggles and put on medals. The important thing is to move forward on this subject, to move forward all together. And it's true that we're going with a certain delay in respect of other communities, but what's also true is that by the pace we've been able to perhaps become the first ones on the table. Mrs. Blanco, people with disabilities in Galicia need employment policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u139	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u140	...—Finally, Mr President—and that if you're working, but what you need, and that's why we're not going to support this initiative, these are not the employment policies of the Socialist Party, which we all know where they lead us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Motion author group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u142	Thank you very much, President. First of all, thank the opposition groups for their support for this initiative. We are going to accept the amendment by En Marea, because we understand that there is discrimination about the conventions between the special employment centres and the sectoral conventions, as I said before, and because there is a difficulty, a certain difficulty, in the transfer from these employment centres themselves to the ordinary employment centres. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, I told you this morning, but let's repeat it to the Popular Group, we don't rejoice when things go wrong, we're not the ones we say today: let's let them fall down and we'll get them up. Don't say that with that smile of the Bipartite's data. Because you come here saying that you already see the results, you see the results. So there's an activity rate in Galicia below 18%, 18% lower than in 2009. Is that to be proud? Is this why the People's Group comes here to assume its employment policy for people with disabilities? [[Applause]] And I really didn't want to talk about Ourense today. But since you've raised the issue, for a day that I don't want, the House of Ourense and the Council of Ourense. Well, I suppose today you saw how all the reports of the Board of Auditors today marked all the irregularities in these two entities' accounts, and, of course, the truth is that you, who always talk a lot about the social policy of the other municipalities, of the other provinces, I also wanted you to talk here a little bit about the city of Ourense, and that in the next intervention if you agree — and it's all right — to explain to us why that concel would have exhausted your budget to the touch of May, which is the first time that happens in the history of the Council of Ourense, the first time, leaving without covering basic services for all citizenship and generating a problem also with all entities. And we can talk about disability, because it sounds like it's random and it always happens to local authorities. My companion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, has denounced me on numerous occasions here, who — oh, by chance! — who first learn of these aids for people with disabilities are the Deputy of Ourense and the Council of Ourense, who I am convinced that this Government councillors also called all socialist mayors and mayors a year from the municipalities to put themselves on the pillars. In the area of disability, to the Council of Ourense I recommend one thing, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo — you are from Ourense — go out to the neighborhoods and look at how they are, look at the traffic lights in Ourense, whether they are adapted or not, and then come here about disability in that city which, of course, is not — no less — accessible. Yes, this is an extensive initiative, of course yes, since the problem is very big and it covers different areas that we have, that I commented on in my first intervention; maybe it's a political program, yes. What I am convinced of is that, of course, it is a completely different political program to that which the People's Party and to a party and to a right that you never believe — nor will we now pretend to create — in equal opportunities. Because you come here to say that you reject an initiative without giving concrete reasons for any of the issues we have raised, such as this employment plan, which is absolutely necessary. But for you, for the People's Party, it's not necessary with the worst occupation rate in all of Spain, it has given no reason nor has it come to speak of the initiative, it has come here — as it is usually customary — to speak of the municipalities, and in this case to put value...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u144	...the House of Ourense and Mr Baltar, that we must have courage! But we will continue to insist on this issue, because we really believe that it is necessary and that the situation — I repeat — is very serious and shameful. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of motions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Before we move on to the vote, and after the debate that has just taken place, I have to give you good news, and it is that this Parliament has already convened a seat to which only intellectually disabled people will be able to present themselves, and soon we will take out a pocket square to which only disabled people will be presented, for everyone in general. [[Applause]] This is good news because we are probably going to become the first Parliament in Spain to do this, I think. So Parliament's merit, everyone's merit. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla. It was accepted as adding the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with Sergas's non-structural waiting lists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u146	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group that has been accepted. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the investment in Galicia envisaged in the 2017 State Budget Project, as well as the work and conclusions of the State Budget Follow-up Commission. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u147	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to access to public employment for persons with intellectual disabilities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u148	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 5 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the provision of personal assistance to ensure the right to life independent of persons with functional diversity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u149	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u150	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u151	Thank you, President. Independent life, by way of definition, is a philosophy and a movement of people with disabilities who work for equal opportunities, dignity and self-determination. Independent life doesn't mean that we don't need anyone, that we want to do everything by ourselves, or that we want to live alone. Independent life means that we want the same control and the same choices in everyday life that sit our brothers, our neighbors, our friends without disabilities. "We want to grow up in our homes with our families, attend the neighborhood school, travel on the same bus, have a proper job with our studies and skills; above all, and like anyone else, we need to direct our lives, think and talk for ourselves." If we start with these words of Adolf Ratzka, it is because we bring today the voice of a collective of people with functional diversity, which I propose to all groups of the House — by taking up the demands of VIgalicia, which is Galicia's independent life office, and which is today in the gallery and to whom we greet — to resume Parliament's commitment to the philosophy of independent life, which has passed a decade since a unanimous agreement in this Parliament, which urged the Union to launch a personal assistant service in Galicia, as support for the independent life of people with functional diversity, for those who need help for daily tasks. At that point, what we approved was to establish a service of personal assistance and technological assistance in a progressive way to people with functional diversity in the Italian field, to start the process with the participation of the involved groups, which are governed by the principles of action of the independent model of life, and to enable, even so, the necessary parts to carry out this project. Well, throughout this year 2017 VIgalicia came in contact with all parliamentary groups to show the demands of the system of personal assistance in our country. The parliamentary mandate has therefore not been fulfilled, the system does not guarantee independent life, and this is because it does not cover all the needs of all people, nor has it respected the participation of collective promoters in the development of the project. Independent life is, as it said, a philosophy that aims at people with functional diversity, the right to exercise the greatest possible control over their lives, thus allowing them to exercise their full rights as citizens and integration into the community. It's therefore human rights, and it's human rights that the international community itself recognizes. In this way, and in the same year of 2017, the UN has just pointed out that states must design arrangements and support services that give people with disabilities and the possibility of choosing to exercise direct control. It comes to reaffirm that philosophy of independent life, which is, of course, based on the value of the person, with the right to decide on his life, and full social participation, regardless of his conditions. We're talking about human rights, we're talking about the fact that we can't allow the body and the difference to serve as a justification for social inequality. You cannot allow the body and the difference to serve so that the full exercise of citizenship is acquitted to certain people. In this sense, it's true that the defense of the rights of people with functional diversity has an intersected struggle with feminism, the body cannot mark a position of social inequality. People with functional diversity, like everyone else, are subject to rights, not objects of integration policies; they are subject and as such society we must deal with them, instead of the assistanceist approach that victimizes them, which considers them weak, passive, intimate; in short, that addresses them to the condition almost non-citizens. If we are citizens, we all have the same rights, and certainly the squares that this Parliament makes available to people with functional diversity, in this case with intellectual disabilities, I am not a gift to applaud, I am not a gift, I am a right. The figure, then, of personal assistant is a figure that enables this right of full participation in citizenship. Personal assistants are the ones who in their work schedule facilitates the user with functional diversity the development of daily life's tasks, which allow them to develop autonomously at all levels, from working life to civic or political. Thus, personal assistants provide help for activities that people with generalized support needs cannot develop on their own, from posture changes to toilet, something so fundamental. This figure was internationally recognized, the UN itself, in the " Uniform Standards for Equal Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities", this figure acknowledges. The so-called Dependency Law also recognizes this figure, by the way, with pressure from the collectives to the offspring of independent life, for it had not foreseen its recognition. The Galician Parliament has also played a role ten years ago in this philosophy of independent life. What's going on? That about paper things are very well framed, but then, in the materialization of the personal assistant figure, the original project was distorted. There is no time left, five minutes left, to sink into the chronology and description of the facts, which we will summarize by saying that between 2005 and 2006 a project entitled "A Personal Assistance Option for Women and Men with Functional Diversity in Galicia" is being presented by the Independent Life Forum, and some of the promoters are here today. This pilot project was presented to the Board, very late in development, and in 2007 Parliament supported it by assuming the project and launching the pilot project at the end of that year. Personal assistance has therefore been pushed into the Social Services portfolio of the Board, yes, it has been pushed, but partially and insufficiently. Devaluation of the original project, remoteness of promoters to give protagonists to other authors, excessive bureaucracy in management, time limitation, improvisation, delay... Finally, they are some of the evasive and traps that have been appearing on the road, and in 2008 the Forum for Independent Life itself evaluated the project and estimated that Parliament's agreement was not met. Thus, the current reality of the benefit does not correspond to the model of independent life validated by the communities that bet on this system. We are going to draw up data, of the 40 minimum hours per week of that non-legislative proposal of Parliament, which has passed to 30 minimum hours per week, with a maximum of EUR 1,300 per month, plus one supplement — yes — one hundred and sixty-eight hours that would allow them to arrive at those 40 hours per week. What's going on? That only from January to November is the complement financed by the European Social Fund. Thus, the people who propose the independent model of life estimate that the minimum for a decent allowance would be sixty hours per week. With forty hours a week, the person who needs assistance for all his activities -- we're talking about people who need assistance at all, not in some, in every one of his activities -- let's put a person's working day of thirty hours a week, five hours a day for six days, which means that person spends one day in bed without getting up. This allowance was set in motion without taking into account that people should have a decent work schedule, and without taking into account that Sunday hours are paid double. So you haven't made yourself a system suitable for social reality, you haven't made yourself a system suitable for the rest of the workers, or the fact that on Sunday an hour you obviously pay twice as much. So for those people who need assistance every day of the week, it would take, as I say, a minimum of sixty hours a week for two people in decent working conditions. This is possible, for example, in the Community of Madrid, we are not asking for impossible. When asked for this question, she always claimed budgetary insufficiency, always. But what's going on? That with little effort investor could meet the needs. And why? Because the recipients of this model of personal assistance are people with great functional diversity, who need help for all the activities of everyday life. They're technically people who need complementary help and personalized attention. Each person, in general, has more than 65% of recognised disability, and according to the data from the Board itself, if the pilot project was started with 40 people in 2008, and if in 2016, as the Board recognized us in a question from En Marea, there were only 87 people, we see that it is a small collective, which with little funds can increase the quality of life, and above all the right to decide these people. Besides, the Union itself told us that it was only 29 people who had asked for complementary services of personal assistance. In this way, Junta pointed out that in 2016 the cost of the total benefit was 1.6 million euros, 1.6 million euros! You know how much Cegadi cost, it's not finished yet? Thirteen million euros. I mean, almost a decade of personal assistance benefits could have improved with a center that is practically, at the moment, a heap of cement. So it's not a matter of funds, it's a question of modeling, it's a question of modeling and betting on the self-management of life on the part of people with functional diversity themselves. In addition, the system of personal assistance has much greater return to society, also with regard to income for the State through social contributions. He has more return than the assistant model in the center, and he has much more return, what happens is that he has less ability to do business with it; so, as I say, it's a question of model, of rights. And I want to end this intervention with the words of Galicia's own VIgality, the Independent Life Office of Galicia: "People with functional diversity who depend on other people for their daily life activities usually find themselves in a situation of exclusion, derived from the difficulty to have control of their lives, and too often have no alternative but to be confined to residences or a model of family detention that generates two-way dependencies and great costs of social and economic opportunities; people with functional diversity who want to have an independent life, since life has a great value. Every human being must have the necessary opportunities and alternatives to be able to decide on matters that affect his life. As functional diversity is an inherent fact to the human being, it must be understood as a more manifestation of human diversity, which must be addressed from the perspective of civil rights and human rights, which must be addressed from the perspective that all people, whatever they are, must have the same rights, the full provision of their lives."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u152	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u153	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. There has indeed been a decade when my colleague — at that time Mrs. Modesta Riobó also began her speech by greeting the people who were in the rostrum, also in VIgalicia, saying that she saluted carefully, and I read textually: "It is easy for all of us to see how despite the measures and laws that have been promulgated over the past few years, measures and laws that aim to be the guarantee that people with disabilities or functional diversity can live with full rights and be able to participate in society on equal terms, it is evident that even today in our society inequality prevails.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This non-law proposal seeks a basic agreement for standardization, social integration and for the independent life of people with functional diversity who need personal assistance. And indeed, a basic agreement was reached, it was intended at that point that it was a basic agreement and that it was a starting point, and unfortunately ten years later we are almost at that point of departure. The people who -- I was looking because I thought Mrs. Rodríguez Arias was going to intervene at this point, because it's the one who's taking these matters, and I don't see it, then rectification. I was going to say that those people who were in that debate today were only Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, but I don't see her. He said, unfortunately, we're almost at the same point of departure and it's not good that we're at the same point of departure. At that time, the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government was practically passed, Law 39/2006, and when members of VIGalice met, in this case, with the BNG Group one of the things that moved us was that one of the difficulties found was the inadequate observed practice that the emphasis was being placed on this Law 39/2006, on the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependent people — even though it was a law on the promotion of personal autonomy — it put a lot of emphasis on the attention of the unit and little on the promotion of personal autonomy. It was one of the issues that we were looking at and in which we had to put more effort into promoting, precisely, personal autonomy, and that to make that effort needed resources, political will, change changes; above all, resources were needed. And within the documentation that moved us, one of the things was the definition that it's independent life. And it's this definition for people with functional diversity and the ideology that encourages access to the set of human, material, social and political resources that allow them to obtain and exercise the greatest possible control over their lives and equate them with the rest of their citizens. As a current of thought it is founded on the principles of freedom, justice, self-determination, control, equity, self-esteem and empowerment. By its nature, based on the so-called social model of disability, it seeks to change the social and political culture of society, which is still based on assistanceism, the medical rehabilitation model, dependence, the preeminence of work on the individual, which faces all forms of exclusion and oppression from the collective. And that is why today we are presenting this initiative of En Marea — which we are obviously going to support — a technical amendment, because it is an initiative presented long ago and makes reference to State budgets for 2017, and we are presenting a technical amendment that will propose them for 2018. And another amendment that refers to the state's accumulated debt with Galicia, which refers to that we are owed at least EUR 150 million from the state, that by applying Royal Decree 20/2012 we have made a whole series of accumulated budget cuts that are supposed to be owed to us more than EUR 150 million. With which if the State pays Galicia those EUR 150 million, we want them to be paid and they can be applied, among other things, to the issues that Mrs En Marea explained to implement measures to promote this independent life. Obviously they are not enough, more resources are needed, but it is clear that in addition to the political will — which is the first step — resources are needed to implement these measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. I also want to greet the representatives of VIgalicia who accompany us from the rostrum. We are now debating an initiative by En Marea on the right to independent life for people with functional diversity, and it goes ahead that from the Popular Group no one questions this right. Moreover, we agree with the need for the figure of the personal assistant, which Mrs. Vázquez has already described perfectly and I am not going to go in and repeat it. The provision of personal assistance is intended to contribute to the coverage of costs arising from the recruitment of an assistant that facilitates people who have a dependent situation access to education and work, as well as to promote greater autonomy in the activities of daily life, thus facilitating the incorporation into social and economic life. And Galicia has always defended and will always defend this right, and also defended and increased this benefit. You made a story by about the year 2008, and by not repeating myself, I want to comment on what happened since 2009. In 2010, for example, if people were to go to grade 2 at the state level, the law initially looked at it only for grade 3, so that in this way they could reach an aid amounting to 1,300 euros a month. The maximum intensity of hours is also reduced to one hundred and twenty hours per month, which was previously one hundred and sixty, thus allowing the maximum amount of benefit to be perceived with a lower intensity of hours. In 2012 it is increased again until it reaches 1,495 euros, and in 2013 this benefit is extended also to grade 1. But leaving aside the debate on whether the aid intensity is sufficient — which we think it is never — the effort that Galicia is making is far above the rest of the autonomous communities. In the province which most users have — Guipúscoa — the average benefit is 300-400 euros — here is 1,500 —. This only varies in some autonomous community, which is true that it has piloted experiences — such as those mentioned here in the 2007 agreement — for more than ten years. And these pilot experiences have a very small number of users, and in this case it's not a right acquired by the entire population, because it's a service granted to a small group of users, and we want you to enjoy it all over the world, not just a particular group. And personal assistance in Galicia through Decree 149/2013, where the portfolio of personal assistance services — as I said — is created, is configured in Galicia as a professional benefit, because it must guarantee an independent life project through an allowance that allows the viability of this project; therefore, it goes far beyond the figure of the caretaker or caretaker in itself. And it is important to point out that 100% of the proper demand in Galicia is covered. Our latest data from the Galician Unit Observatory Report is above all as a percentage of benefits provided through services with 74.7%. While other communities such as Andalusia, with 71%, which in addition to 30% are teleassisted, Extremadura, with 70% — Mrs. Blanco bothers you, but it's the data, and data from the Unit Observatory -- and Castela-A Mancha, with 78%. It does not report on Galicia - and I am reading it -: "It has essentially chosen to provide home aid in the last year and this has generated almost 2,000 new direct jobs in the system". And besides, we are, of course, open to any improvement in the dependency system, but whenever this line is followed, that of professionalism, because we understand that what we want is quality services and also generate quality jobs. From the People's Group — as I said at the outset — we are in favour of professional personal assistance as a support mechanism for ensuring the autonomy of people with functional diversity. And in that sense goes our amendment, urging the Galician Council to increase, first, the economic accounts of the provision of personal assistance, which — as we have just said — is not enough. And it is true, Mrs Vázquez Verao, that there are some aspects that need to be improved, undoubtedly; among others — not to mention all — about the self-management of which you also demand and which you request at point 2 of your initiative, and which today is incompatible with state labour law. That's why in our amendment we included in the second point that within the working group created in Imserso, in relation to the provision of personal assistance, work to improve the provision of these benefits you have. With regard to point 3 of the initiative they present, and also referring to the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego, it reminds you that there is a unanimous agreement on this subject in this Chamber three months ago, in October 2017. And this agreement has been transferred to the Government within the Committee on Analysis of the Current Situation of the System for Autonomy and Attention to the Unit. Galicia transferred its proposals and the Territorial Council agreed to resume funding in 2012.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u159	So, Mr President, what you are asking for in your amendment has already been approved. And, therefore, I just have to say that we are entirely in favour of helping the people who demand their rights, but today's legislation is incompatible at the state level. Waiting for you to count with your support our amendment, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u161	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, allow me to greet the members of VIgalia and the other guests who are now here in the guest gallery. "The truth is that the People's Party wants to help," I think, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, that that expression already says everything, that sounded charity, it did not sound the consolidated right that the law itself of dependency... yes, put in place by a socialist government. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I know you don't like it. The truth is to come here saying that you have always defended the Dependency Law is that to me — almost will allow me to express myself at this late afternoon — I was a little sorry to hear it. Because the data from the Observatory itself — which I also have the report here in 2017 — estimate that in the last five years there have been 150,000 people in this country who have failed with a recognized right and without receiving that help. The rate is 90 people a day, no more, no less. Too bad they were defending and believing in this law! Delays to be added to the accumulated clippings of the 2012 Royal Decree of 3,734 million euros. The decline in the funding of autonomous communities, which takes a lot of time saying they moved to 50-50. We do not know whether Mr Feijóo has any weight in Madrid or whether he is directly unaware of it, because the fact is that even now the contribution of the autonomous communities is on average 17% of the state and 83% of the autonomous communities. From July 2012 to December 2016, an accumulated loss of EUR 2,200 million. We will now count on the accumulated loss in job creation, in direct collection of social security, in IRPF, in VAT, in corporate tax: EUR 900 million. Waste of 78,000 jobs, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, which could have been created. In that great pulsation of the precariousness in which you turned the right to the Dependency Law, personal assistance services are one more piece — as has already been said here. And they are very important, since they guarantee freedom of opportunity and free women to occupy the historical role of caregivers to whom they have been relegated. And they're providing that social freedom and the emancipation of people, which is very important. I'm also a source of direct job creation with low management costs, so 98% of the investment ends up having a direct impact on employment. We're talking about social employment, flexible, professional employment, and completely adaptable to the needs of these people. And it allows — one thing which is fundamental and what we were talking about in the previous initiative — that can also be access to equal opportunities for employment. It's also economically more profitable and efficient. This, of course, the People's Party gentlemen, does not interest them, because it would allow a saving of EUR 30,000 per person per year in respect of private homes. But of course, then the San Rosendo Foundation would stop having the panacea it has mounted with all the private residences and the Galician board of deriving older people there. The business would be over, so they don't like it, even if they want to help, as you said, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Despite these benefits, this benefit — which should serve as support for independent life — is small and does not allow — as has already been said here — more than a 40-hour limit per week, without taking into account the peculiarities of each user, which in many cases exceed 60-hours. Furthermore, professional qualifications must be basic, generalist and freely selected by the user. This is a fundamental issue, because the learning needs that are reinforced must be strengthened in the everyday life of these care, not in theory. It doesn't have to be strictly regulated training, which has to be concise and functional and which serves as support for these people. There's a very clear budget failure, which turns this system into an emulation of home help. It is not allowed in this field, and the way in which work projects, studies or social participation are conceived, which are so important, and it is condemning these citizens, despite the help you want to provide, to an endemic state of shortage and precariousness, that is the reality, to the care of their families, which in many cases are older people. So we, Mrs Vázquez Verao, are going to support this initiative and regret not to go ahead. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u163	We still aspire to go ahead, because we have until tomorrow to try to find a deal, but first of all I would like to point out a question that I've forgotten before and which is very important. To talk about self-management of benefits is to recognize that people with functional diversity don't have to be viewed in a set, as we usually do in this Parliament, with a single voice, with a common voice. They don't have to be just the entities that work in the issue of disability and their voice, because this simplification denies the diversity of the collective and denies the different needs depending on the different abilities of each person. Disability is not a homogeneous category, there is great diversity of types and functional affect. That's why it's much more necessary that this personal assistant program adapts to the needs of each individual. The truth is that the benefit does not guarantee those independent life projects to all the people who need it, because there are people who need a lot more hours, so we propose that it be a public benefit and a right, so it shouldn't be a right subject to pay, that it has no time limit and that it meets the needs of the person. We remember that the GNP that had been approved in this Parliament for more than ten years was in the spirit of a project that talked about individual support plans, which is therefore another philosophy, which is why we are open to this transaction, and now I will explain why. But first I would also like to mention that the benefits of the personal assistant program are not only for the people who use this system. It's also a social benefit, of course, the fact that all people, all citizens, have the same rights, that's undeniable. But in addition to that, the personal assistance program, apart from the benefit for people with functional diversity, because they take control of their lives, is also a benefit — as Mrs Blanco has already pointed out — for the family and social environment, especially for women, who are most responsible for these care. But it is also a collective benefit to the extent that employment is generated, social contributions are generated. And it's also a benefit to avoid situations of violence associated with circumstances of dependence or isolation. The social and personal situations difficult for people with great needs are and unfortunately will be more serious in a society like ours, of great demographic decline, and worsen in rural areas, so it's even more fundamental that this question of personal worker has no time limit and meets the needs of each user. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, the issue of professional profile regulation cannot also be an excuse not to increase the hours of this benefit. We agree that it is being studied within the Imserso, that this regulation is still being studied, but we remember that when the pilot project was made and sent to the Imserso for its study, or Imserso said, "Report that, although the project seems to them a magnificent initiative and with all the pronouncements to be carried out, the social and political competences addressed to dependent people correspond to the Autonomic Administration." In the matter of hours it can be increased, in the matter of professional category regulation, while it is not resolved, through the figure of the personal assistant, by means of the agreements existing both in Galicia and elsewhere, but more hours, by adapting to the needs of the people the hours offered, which are facilitated. To finish, we wanted to say that we can have the opportunity to recover that vanguard project, that we are open to the transaction, that we can even withdraw point 3, and in that case we would not accept the amendment from the Block because it would fail, but if we did not, because we think this Parliament should continue to be in the vanguard of boosting that real pilot experience. And I would like to quote, to conclude, a few words from VIGALICE, which says that rarely in contemporary Europe a chamber of democratic representation has understood and has determined so directly the launching of an experience that essentially comes back the civil rights of a minority. Let us become heirs of that gesture of the Galician Parliament. We try a transaction here tomorrow and materialize the slogan of the European Congress on the independent life of 2016: "Nothing about us without us."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u164	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, of popular initiative, on the measures to be promoted by the Junta of Galicia, in front of the central government, in relation to the protection of winegrowers in the area of the regulatory councils of Ribeira Sacra, Ribeiro, Monterrey and Valdeorras affected by the frosts that occurred in the last days of April 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u165	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr Quiroga has the floor to make this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u166	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, promoters of the initiative that are at the guest board and the rest of the guests. Today we are going to defend a non-law proposal submitted by the agricultural organisation Agrarian Unions-UPA, in the wake of legislation and with the support of more than 2,500 farmers' signatures from today's spokespersons; in particular, dedicated to viticulture and chestnut harvesting. And we're doing it with obvious delay, because the initiative has the record stamp of June 8, 2017, but very in time to take effect on the punished producers, because between the end of the year and spring it's when the revenue from the sale of grapes would be reflected. In the last year, there have been several initiatives by the various opposition groups on the line of claiming direct aid, and other complementary aid, for the agricultural sector, in front of the meteorological inclusions such as hail, rock, drought, and others such as the consequences of the fire, wild fauna and a long et cetera. We have to say that none of them have been able to make honey in the closure of the People's Party, which is unable to show enough sensitivity to the rural world at such critical times for the producers and inhabitants of this environment. But it's not just a matter of sensitivity to producers, it's also a matter of commitment to people who make it possible for the survival of the rural world, that for many beautiful headlines that we put in the press, it's still a defeat of abandonment, aging and disloyalty. It must also be a question of coherence with the word of the president, who has been said to be active since the beginning of the legislation and passively that 2016-2020 would be or would be the legislation of the rural community. A rural that covers 80% of the territory of our community, although today it represents only 30% of the total population, with all the indicators down and all the recipes that are put on the table to curb the demographic decline in a situation of extreme failure, as well reflected the media yesterday. We already know it's not easy to find a solution that breaks with the alarming trend that threatens to leave thousands of villages and places in this country. Among other things, it's not easy because the solution does not depend on just one measure that comes to solve this picture. Precisely, the problem of abandonment and aging in rural areas is the sum of a series of transversal factors that make it harder to find the formula for success. The exit of the well in which we find ourselves immersed will only be possible through an integral plan involving institutional, economic and social actors who can make the approaches with which to put a stop to this decadence and abandonment. A comprehensive plan that has sufficient and sustained budgetary support in time to make it possible to face clearly, aside from electoral calls, an investment plan in infrastructure, services and innovation that changes the current trend. All this with the aim of eliminating the income differential and quality of services between rural and cities. Within this comprehensive plan today we will not focus on an adequate, realistic and future forest policy failure, which is essential. Nor will we refer to the problem of wild fauna, particularly the wolf and, above all, the boar, which causes so many damage and causes a cry of problems. We also don't want to focus on the catastrophe, which is so negatively affecting the population and landowners and that the neighbors see it as an assault on their pockets. We are not going to have an impact on what we can call fiscal persecution, which, among other things, is based on the transfer of the rights of the single payment. This initiative also does not want to deepen the closure or cut-off of rural schools or the continuous cuts in the health centres of the small towns, which alienate the population of the villages and these small towns. We're not going to enter the digital divide either, which conceptualizes and classifys as first or second citizens depending on the layout of that technology. We do not want to have enough money in public transport, nor do we want to go into the absence of genuine rural equality policies. Today we only want to focus on the application of a package of urgent measures of economic restraint, part of that comprehensive plan that ensures the survival of the farms that have been affected by the weather conditions that have punished the production of land like viticulture and that of this country's chestnut. We have no doubt that aid to sectors of production in distress must form part of that comprehensive plan that we referred to at the outset. If we talk about the vineyard, there are four names affected: Ribeiro, Ribeira Sacra, Valdeorras and Monterrey; the latter, perhaps the most punished, with about 10,000 winegrowers in the four denominations. If we heeded the data that in their day provided their own regulatory advice, the losses in the harvest were important and fluctuated between 40% in the Sacred Ribeira, focused on certain areas such as the San Clodio and Quiroga Valley, the banks of Sil or Panton areas; up to 80% in the designation of origin Monterrey, and between 55% and 65% in the Ribeiro and Valdeorras. If we talk about loss in kilograms and use the same sources of regulatory advice, adding the four denominations of origin, we're talking about 15 million pounds less. And if we refer to the economic impact on our producers, they recorded estimated losses at least EUR 12 million at least, according to the data from the regulatory councils. These are quite significant data, and with a clear negative impact on one of the country's productive engines, which demand not only sensitivity, but also commitment and support from the Administration. If we refer to the chestnut, the situation is no better. To the damage caused by the hail in April, the drought had to be added, which ended up producing a crop with a decrease of about 50% in the 20 million kilograms collected in 2016, with an approximate value of about 40 million euros, which also experienced a proportional decline. And not only was the quantitative loss, but the fruit collected experienced an important decrease in the price due to the drought and loss of quality of the fruit. The areas affected were all major chestnut producers, particularly those in the Provinces of Lugo and Ourense, affecting in different degrees the nearly 20,000 collectors who have a supplementary income in this fruit that helps to draw difficulties in times of crisis. In short, a disastrous situation for producers and people who keep the Italian countryside alive, who ask for help from this administration. For all this, UPA Agricultural Unions, he asks: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to promote the following measures relating to the protection of wine growers from the territory of the regulatory councils Ribeira Sacra, Ribeiro, Monterrey and Valdeorras affected by frost: "1. Urgently request a line of direct aid for wine growers equal to the wine growers and wine growers of the Sacred Ribeira, specifically in the Town Hall of Sober, and for chestnut producers. These aid will partly cover the necessary work on the recovery and maintenance of the vineyards concerned, and will ultimately entail the non-abandonment of existing holdings. Second. To request the Ministry of Employment and Social Security a 99% bonus in the quotas satisfied with Social Security by self-employed workers for a period not less than six months. Third. To request the Ministry of Business and Public Administration to set up a discount applicable in the IRPF. Fourth. We ask that the Galician Union, through Igape, open a portal of requests that make available to the affected and affected a line of credits, without processing costs and with zero interests, that allow to mitigate the economic damage caused by loss of income and the liquidity and circulating needs. In this way, it would not only be in the bank's hands to decide which farms survive and which not, depending on the possibility of receiving a private credit. Fifth. Call upon the Government of Spain for the declaration of emergency zone due to exceptional weather conditions which occurred mainly on April 27 for the territory of the designations of origin Ribeiro, Monterrey, Valdeorras and Ribeira Sacra, and the Town Hall of Viana do Bolo, which was severely affected by the frost. Sixth. May the Galician Union and the Ministry of Agriculture launch a negotiating table with the sector and insurance companies to make possible the existence of a real, adapted and effective insurance offer for the wine sector and for the production of chestnuts, enabling a sufficient budgetary share to cover up to 65%, the subsidy of agricultural insurance." Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u167	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. On April 26 and 27, last year an unexpected and intense frost made an act of presence in much of our territory, causing enormous damage to wine crops, chestnuts, beekeeping, nuts, potatoes and some other cereal. The Counsellor, in front of the media, would say a few days later, "If you ask me for direct help, I think I'm very clear. I've said it since the first day: what is safe is not subsidisable." A year earlier, as has already been said here in August, President Feijóo's words in full electoral campaign, and in the face of the devastation of the stone in Doado, Sober and Marcelle, are propaganda. The President stressed the need to address as quickly as possible the damage so that the producers concerned could continue their activities as soon as possible. With extreme speed, the Union approves direct aid amounting to EUR 500,000 to compensate for losses in production to the affected wine growers who had not subscribed to any insurance policy, the situation in which most of them were found. And not only this, they also used the request for an emergency zone declaration — which, as you know, is the old catastrophic zone — all this bombo and plate with the media and propaganda at the top. Is this serious?, is this coherence, is it ridicule or ridicule? Since the BNG, we have been bowing to the last: ridicule, and we want to give a question to the bill that we're debating, because we can't only talk about damage to vineyards, the chestnut harvest, already affected by the chestnut tree, has been reduced to zero on the Bolo and other producing areas. The number of newly burned chestnuts, as if they had spent hell on top of them, walnuts that, lost the harvest, sprouted up the adults but the news dried or were wounded in death. The apiculture, which already supported the pressure of the thymp and the excess of neurotoxic phytosanitaries, which caused a patent biological weakness, saw suddenly paralysed the crop of nectar and polle, because the main source, the oak or erica was completely burned, and more the chestnut, which lost the candle. He's just got the woods and a little more. The potato was crushed too, and the cereal. We're getting less and less aware of how rural the P.P. Counselor speaks to us. Because, in addition to that rural wine, the IXP of the dairy intensive, where the entrepreneur is patent, there is that other rural that has some of these crops affected as a complement to the scarce and small agricultural incomes, which resists in villages, we do not yet know why, but that it is there, keeping alive a territory that is eucalyptus or deserting or, in the best case, that is bought at low prices by new fortunes that will repeat accumulation of properties for intensive farms. We're talking about small family incomes for honey, chestnuts, wine, nuts, tax-controlled, which in the legality of legalism do not exist, but that they tell, that they are real, that a real government will have to contemplate in some way and give it a letter of existence because they are part of that unreal economy, which resembles more to the quiet subsistence than the other thing, but exists, it's there, and the frosts have no contemplation. For this reason, and to minimize the effects of these extemporaneous frosts, it was fair and necessary — to see worthy et justum est said the Latin Mass — that the councillor would legislate for the real countryside and would consider the sectors of wine, chestnut, honey and potatoes, partially or wholly affected, because we have producers there in full performance and with full dedication and economic activity, main or exclusive. But these other people who own and cultivate small areas with those who earn additional income from their family economies, who manage the territory and conform and complement the agricultural fabric of our real rural, these people also exist, and the Administration must, take it into account. "What is safe is not subsidisable." No one of that board has had to take into consideration what farmers of agricultural organizations have been saying for years or years, that agricultural insurances are either adapted to the characteristics of our country's property and agricultural activity, or are not useful to us for failing to respond to our productive and agrarian reality, for being excessively expensive and for having unreasonable coverage. So the People's Party should make the policy of reality, for real people; hear the needs, sit down with land insurers and mediate to suit insurance to our realities. We understand that this requires political effort and intelligence, in addition to goodwill. It's hard for them, we know. They're down from the heights where they're installed, from the macro-economics, and they're ruling for the people. Anyway, they won't be able to move the rural environment of the ICU to the tanatorium, really, so the BNG will vote in favour of this non-law proposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u169	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u170	Thank you, President. Greetings to guests and guests. Year 2017, bad year for our farm. Year of heavy precipitation in the form of stone, year of frost, year of forest fires, year of drought. In the year that let us see what the policies of the People's Party are painting as regards the rural environment in our country: zero. Toolbox to help alleviate the effects of drought, frost, etc. in agriculture I have made a mockery of the sector, since it is about aid — as we all know — that already existed, and that they are not going to solve a problem like drought, associated with climate change, which we will have to learn to live with in the future. The aid should, on the one hand, be direct aid, which will help to alleviate the immediate damage and loss caused by drought, as the PSdeG calls for in this initiative. Yes, direct aids, as they did on other occasions when it coincided with election time. And, on the other hand, long-term measures, which should include water management and management policies, with particular attention to our agriculture. In any case, the aid you announced and which has already put into force the Union, such as the hiring of agricultural insurance, that liquidity to holdings by subsidizing interest in loans or 70% of the CAP for supply infrastructures, are only patches that will make no difference to most of our farms and that do not assume a planned response to what the problem is. Among the first measures, adapting agricultural insurance to the reality of our productions, so that all farms can easily access policies that begin to be indispensable in this climate change context, that's what has to be. It's just as soon as we can get them to subsidize the hiring of agricultural insurance from the Union if those insurances remain unadapted to Galician reality, to the reality of our country. We are still waiting for these compensations for all those farms that have been mined over this year, especially in Ourense province, in sectors like chestnut, where we have lost more than 70% of production, and in sectors like wine, honey, potatoes or cereals. At this moment, one of the most damaged parts, which we must not forget, are the farms in which there have been incorporations of young people and girls in recent times, which often leads to increases in production or dimensions in farms. The wine sector in Ourense province was one of the big hits by hail and hail, too, followed by drought. Vineyards are crops that are usually not watered, that do not participate in the aid of the common agricultural policy, and in which discrimination when it comes to hiring insurance is more evident. In a sector like this, where most winegrowers and winegrowers have several vineyards in different situations of climate risk, it is not understood or received that they are forced to subscribe insurance for the whole of the farm, which makes it often unsavory, and not for those plots that really need it. Right now, after the ice and hail damage, the drought has made great prejudices, especially in new plantations and in the most vulnerable strains, because the water stress has killed the plants and caused great economic losses. In the horticultural sector, the great forgotten, the lack of agriculture policies in the Union translates into the lack of planning to ensure access to water, and so we saw it in the line of aids that it drew, where only 1.5% of our country's farms were accommodated by these subsidies. We continue to advocate direct aid such as the forgiveness of quotas to Social Security. We continue to advocate subsidies for the purchase of fodder or compensation in those drought areas; aid to alleviate the damage caused by adverse weather phenomena; and others to support the construction of infrastructures such as water supplies, on that line of grants that came out, although they were ill to request and justify. In short, from En Marea we are going to support this initiative and we are seeing how the Union and the Council of the Rural Environment continue to fail to respond to crises affecting our agricultural sectors, in the same way that they always do, without policies, without planning or useful actions that solve the problems of our farmers and our farmers. For our part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u171	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u172	Good afternoon. We are debating today a proposal under the People's Legislative Initiative Act and citizen participation in Parliament, promoted in 2015 by the insensitive and intolerant People's Group and with the votes against the good and understanding groups on the left. We appreciate that they are now using this method, and we appreciate their opportunity to talk about a sector as important to Galicia as wine. As you know, we have five designations of origin: Monterrey, Rías Baixas, Ribeira Sacra, Ribeiro and Valdeorras, which have economic and social relevance in the regions in which they extend, involving more than 11,000 wine growers and 460 wine cellars, with a production in 2017 of more than 61 million kilos, the third largest harvest after 2011 and 2015. The truth is, despite the difficulties of recent times, we are talking about the most exportable agro-industrial sector, which in the 2015-2016 campaign has increased its exports by 69% over the 2010-2011 campaign. That's why it's fair to acknowledge the effort, the dedication of the wine growers, the wine growers, the regulatory council of the designations of origin, agricultural trade unions — as it is today — that have also been counting on the support of the Rural Council, through different plans and lines of help. It helps in the last four years, for example, more than 7 million euros for internationalization, and even a few days ago an order was published for promotion on markets outside the European Union, with a budget of 1.7 million euros, for the period 2018-2019, and another, with 2.5 million euros, for transformation and marketing. Ladies and gentlemen, when I come into the proposal, I have to tell you with all due respect that is overcome by time and by events. They're late, and you know, Mr. Quiroga has already recognized him, who has made real efforts to defend him. The fact is that after the April 2017 frosts, while some — the usual ones — have opted for the banner and alarmism, exaggerating irresponsibly damages and figures of possible losses in the crops that have been shown to be not so, the People's Group presented a proposal — the only one that has not mentioned Mr Quiroga — that was indeed very important, with support measures for wine growers such as reductions in the IRPF, subsidies in the Social Security, zero-cost loan, or incentives for insurance contracts, among others, that you have not supported, I understand, Mr Quiroga, that you should forget this initiative and do not remember this initiative, because you can try to support your arguments. Of course, we saw a real negation exercise of reality. In front of what you say, the Rural Council has worked from the very first time visiting the affected areas and being next to the winegrowers and winemakers, sending technicians to make an initial assessment of damage and from there designing different lines of help. The Galician wine growing and enology station prepared a technical document and celebrated a training day for rest-work, which in many cases were effective for the recovery of vineyards. Mr. Rivas, please attend. The Territorial Commission on Agricultural Insurance was immediately convened, where agricultural organisations and designations of origin raised the need to adapt the insurance lines to the reality of each denomination. After several meetings, the proposals were sent to Enesa, who proceeded to update the prices of most varieties in these designations of origin, and the advisor made important changes in the order that regulates insurance recruitment aid, by the way, by allocating 5 million euros and ensuring an average subsidy, in the total policy, of 40%. Orders of aid have been published — you have already spoken, Mr Rivas, about the conversion and restructuring of the vineyard, EUR 1.4 million, giving priority to the vineyards of affected areas. [[Applause]] Igape management has been performed to obtain liquidity and moratorium aid. In this way, the Council of 7 September adopted guidelines to support access to the adequacy of the financing of the farms producing and transforming of the grapes and the chestnuts concerned, as well as the holdings producing potatoes, cereals, vegetables and fruit trees. As a matter of fact, in those months the adviser participated in several meetings in the Ministry of Agriculture, where the call for liquidity aid was decided upon, subsidising auctions to farms. In the early days of the year, the reports prepared on the damage were sent to be included in the IRPF module reduction decree, Mr. Quiroga; not now, as you ask, which would, of course, be very late and out of date. Ladies and gentlemen, Junta is developing a rigorous work, acting within the framework of legality and, above all, without false promises and telling the truth to the affected, because the difficulties of the wine sector in 2017 were not a problem in Galicia alone, nor were they the fault of the People's Party, and you know that. Look, Italy, the world's leading producer, there's a 23% loss forecast in production. France, according to the world producer, is a 19% loss. Spain, third world producer, with an approximate fall of 18% to 19%. Galicia, it increases its production by 2.8% because of the excellent harvest of the Low Rhinelands. But, Mr. Quiroga, you can't come with the forecasts, you have to update the data. If we take the official definitive loss data, for example in Ribeiro, minus 18.5%; in Ribeira Sacra, minus 1.1%; Valdeorras, minus 9.9%; Monterrey, minus 35%. We'd be talking about a 16.1% loss on average, less than Italy, less than France and less than the whole of Spain. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I end by asking them not to confuse their wishes with reality. And I'm telling you more, we're not going to tolerate all the help I'm talking about is "virtual help," because they're missing the truth. And we're not going to let them say, "PP uses as rabbits of Indians to the rural inhabitants." Surely, after the data I have exposed to them, they better understand the difficulties they have had to collect in six months, and by asking for extension of time, 2,598 signatures, manifestally by means of everything. I ask you gentlemen, who uses who? Maybe it's not as bad as you say. They reflect and show a little more respect. We have the hand to work together, with the utmost collaboration and loyalty, between industry agents and administrations. By the way, although he may bother one of his lordships, Ourense's deputy dedicates 200,000 euros a year to helping with the four denominations of Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u173	Quiet, quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u174	I repeat, the House of Ourense allocates 200,000 euros to help the four designations of origin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u175	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u176	So among all of us we'll see if we work together and we can get a great harvest in the 2018 campaign. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u177	Thank you. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u178	Arguments and data seem to be used in a different sense. You come here and you affirm that this is out of time. I've already told you at the beginning of the intervention that is very in time, because at this moment it's just when our wine growers received, from the end of the year to the spring, the perceptions of the previous harvest. Therefore, for nothing is overcome in time this proposition, and it has all the vigil. You say, and it's an argument that we've seen listening here, that the impact was not so much; that they intervened, that they put in motion a number of aids, and that, thanks to them, we can practically say that there was no negative impact of what producers are talking about, and it can almost be substanceized that it was an excellent year. It's true that the data provided by the regulators seems to indicate that the damage was not so serious. But you and your partner, spokesperson in the Committee on Agriculture, are wine-growing areas and know that it's no less true that many of these kilograms of grapes in the official data did not come in certain denominations, neither to certain wineries, nor to baskets, neither to boxes, nor to cars, nor to tractors, but to trucks and trailers. [[Applause]] And said this, and said this, Mr. Paradelo, we're going to stop here, we're not going to cross the ruby of the omerta on the subject. But the producers and the people who live on foot know what we're talking about, you know what we're talking about. In the so shaky issue of agricultural insurance, which is another element that can give us proof of what really happened, we had access to agri-insurance policies in number 130 or so, and all of these, if you score, collect an average drop in the 70% harvest. And there are cases like Monterrey where insurers record 100 percent damage. These are papers, these are data, which do not match those other data with which to cover our mouths. It's not true, it's not going that way. And the issue of agrarian insurance, which in this budget has the same amount as in the previous one, you know -- and you all know -- that continues to fit the reality and the economic and productive structure of this country the clauses of those agricultural insurances, because otherwise, of course, those insurances will not be used to deal with the disastrous and catastrophic situations that weather brought in the harvest of 2017. And on the subject of direct help, I think it's practically all said. There were direct aids for the vineyard in 2016 — almost in the middle of the election campaign — and since those — as well as the subject of the boar — there has been no further knowledge of them. What we are asking for is not only sensitivity, but commitment to the productive sectors of this country, and that commitment has to transcend the headlines of the press and go much further. You have to put up with these direct aids and a clear and determined bet in favour of these productive sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u179	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the constitution in the Galician Parliament of a specific presentation for the analysis and elaboration of a proposal on the new political and institutional framework of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u180	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u181	Good afternoon, gentlemen. The BNG Parliamentary Group brings this non-legislative proposal to the plenary so that we can put in place a large country agreement, a presentation, a dialogue space to develop a new status proposal for Galicia. We think Parliament is the right forum to shape and play a role in this process and to be able to articulate a Welsh proposal, a great agreement that serves us to have a new political and institutional model that recognizes Galicia's sovereignty, that gives us more tools to improve the lives of the people of our country and that we progress collectively as a people. So this is a proposal that is born in the spirit of building, moving forward and opening up a necessary debate. A debate in which we left... I, Mr. President... the noise annoys the opposition to the members of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] A debate, ladies and gentlemen, which is born of confidence in the country; that we believe, moreover, that it must be given with all calm and serenity; where, above all, the important thing and what should give calm to everyone is that the decisions about what steps we must take, who must take them is not any political organization, but who has to take them is the citizenship of Greece. It is clear that we could come here today and reduce this debate to a more ideological debate, on which are the proposals that BNG has in this matter; because we have proposals and are very clear. We have the democratic bases, which are known and which anyone can read, but we understand that the way to start this debate, the steps we must take, must be a presentation in this Parliament that is the beginning of a joint reflection that no group has the right to steal from this country, because we are faced with decisions that are important for the present and the future. I always say that sometimes we forget that today's Statute that Galicia really has a son of the generation of Castile and Boveda, that it was those who fought at the time so that we had the recognition of that status, and even that they have already begun the coup d'état, in full war, and while the state forces wanted to prevent that status from being approved. So the decisions we make today will also be crucial decisions not only for the present — which is important — but also for future generations. [[Applause]] And in that analysis, and in the debate that we have about the convenience or not of this presentation, there is a question that is key, and it is to analyze what is the state of health that has the self-government of our country. Of course, I don't think anyone would be surprised if I told them that the Block always considered the Statute to be a narrow suit, which, of course, Galicia had to aspire much more. But I believe that, objectively, if we look at all the political, economic and social processes that have taken place in Galicia since the adoption of this statute in 1981, we see that autonomy is increasingly self-anemic and that we are at a time of brutal political decentralization, which has even turned the Statute — all the statutes currently in force — into wet paper. Another debate is what the aspiration we must have, and above all a very clear conviction, is that, in the face of the brutal recentralizing process that shattered Galicia's autonomy statute, it is necessary more than ever to have new tools, new frameworks and, therefore, to defend the collective interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because despite the fact that on many occasions we are told that with this framework everything is going to be wonderful, when we objectively analyze what happened at the material base of our country, the truth is that we have reasons to be concerned and concerned. And I think it's the most responsible person that can make anyone concerned about the present and the future. We think today we live in Galicia less people than when the Statute was passed in 1981 and it is a much older population. Galicia represented at the beginning of the 1980s 6% of the state gross domestic product, today we are 5.2%. We accounted for almost 10% of the total employment in the state, and today we are reduced to 5.5%. In these decades, structural processes have not been able to be halted either. We think there were moments of economic kindness — as you like to tell the PP — in which there was still immigration in this country. That happened in franchise, but it also happened after the Constitution was passed. And finally, as an element of reflection — and I think it's no less important — I think it's all a symbol of what's happening to us that Greek is the only language on the peninsula that's losing speakers. And that has to do with not only an identity issue, but behind the deterioration process of the Greek language is the deterioration of the economic and material base of our country. [[Applause]] Obviously, I'm not going to make it clear that there is an important part of responsibility in these years in the policies that the People's Party has taken. That, indeed, the Fraga governments and then the Feijóo governments — who ruled almost throughout this time — have led our country to a very critical situation, because, among other factors, you are always in charge of defending all the decisions that go against Galicia's interests. But aside from that element, which is key, it is also obvious that there is a factor that affects, and that the political framework conditions the possibilities of developing a country, a people. And it is well known that the Spanish State, which, in fact, in its obsession, is actually making decisions that are contrary to our interests and is launching a process of decentralization which is only seeking to benefit the large transnational corporations, the bank and a central central government in Madrid that is making a very important part of our country's resources. This, as we have very few minutes, doesn't take much time to explain it, but I do think we have some clear examples in that direction, for example, the energy policy. About the face of the planet Galicia there's only one Welshman who looks good on that energy policy, and it's Feijóo, because he has already told us that he's worried that this is functional for Madrid, and that the defense of a Welsh tariff would not understand it in Madrid. But I think what you don't understand today is more than 245,000 people who can't arrest the heating because they pay a very high price for the light and they have very low wages, which you don't understand is how they go cold in a country that produces electricity from scratch. That is something that we have to change and that would be solved with a new framework for this country. [[Applause]] But we could also say what happens in that demographic decline in Galicia. It is clear that one of the keys is the deterioration that has occurred in the fisheries sector, and above all in the agriculture sector. That deterioration has to do with political decisions, among them, that an entry into the European Union had been negotiated that clearly sold a productive sector in our country and that they have endorsed governments of the People's Party and also of the Socialist Party in Madrid. In that case, the Socialist Party, who bought that entry into the European Union. Clearly, if Galicia had the right to vote, the right to vote and the right to veto in that negotiation, the situation would have been quite different from our interests. So we have one aspect in which we clearly see the discrimination that causes our country to have no decision-making capacity on those aspects that directly affect the possibilities of life of the Greeks and the Greeks. But also, as I said, there is now a process of brutal re-centralization, in which the crisis has not only been used to rob rights, but also to strengthen a centralist, absolutist state and that is dynamiizing the foundations of autonomy, of that autonomy that you said you were defending. That's where they start with the emptying of financial autonomy. It's very graphic today. We can't make decisions or the template that our public hospitals need because we're conditioned by decisions that are made in Madrid. The reform of Article 135 was also a recentralizing measure, because it conditions that the payment of debt is above providing basic services that are managing autonomous communities. And, as it does not!, the reform of savings banks, which has caused centenary institutions to disappear in our country; that public resources have been used to make the Greek boxes become part of Venezuelan capital; and, therefore, that has meant the greatest loss in economic and political terms of our country in the last 100 years with complete clarity. So what we see is that there are only two ways in this situation, and we have to decide today why we want to move forward. There is a path that is the path of paralysis, to say that Galicia does not have to give this debate despite the fact that everyone is taking positions, because it is obvious that there are changes that are now weaving and there is a citizen demand to be able to change and move frames that exist right now, so this is the path of paralysis. And the way in which we choose, which is the path of political impulse, to address the debates that are necessary for progress and that, of course, we have the capacity, confidence and security in what we can do if we are committed to relying on the possibilities of Galicia and opening a debate that is absolutely necessary to deal with the problems that we have ahead. We in the Block also want to say that we have very clear that, when we bet on a new status, the only thing we want to break is with the subordination of Galicia to the state, and therefore establish equality relationships, and no democrat has to be afraid of equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u183	...no democrat must be afraid that a nation that exists, like the Greek nation, may exist on an equal footing with the rest of the nations of the world. In any case, that's not what we are debating today. We are debating whether we want to put forward a statement on a key debate for the present and key for the future. We are debating whether there really is critical mass to address a process that has been plagued by the immobility of the People's Party for too many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u185	Good afternoon. For we are going to be critical of this initiative for reasons of form and also for reasons of substance. In shape? We have a self-government framework that is set up by our Statute within the framework of the Spanish Constitution. By the way, a statute that over time is progressively getting more support in Galicia. It is possible that today our self-government legal-political framework is the most supported in the whole of the Spanish autonomous communities, and this Statute provides for its reform in Article 56, but the initiative lies in a fifth of the Members of the House and one of the parliamentary groups, it is not possible to do so by means of the procedure you choose. This procedure is a false door to a matter of great silence like this, where there must be prior consensus between the opposition groups, at least, to achieve then a consensus with the majority group that supports the Government, which must also be present, necessarily, in the reform of the Statute. The first conclusion is that you're not serious, that you're playing lighthouse, and don't worry about establishing those consensuses. They're not thinking big, they're not thinking Galician, their citizenship, their interests. They're thinking, perhaps, of grouping their social base together, but the cost of introducing division not only between Galician citizenship, but between the groups that we are in the opposition. And by this way the People's Group can be perfectly quiet because the matter won't go any further. Our position remains in favour of the Statute reform, as we were in 2006 and 2007. We tried with you, Alberto Núñez Feijóo stopped him, but at that point we had three goals. The first one is to update and modernize the competition regime and the rights and duties of citizenship. Secondly, it integrates all the political currents into the statistical framework. And thirdly, defend our status of historical nationality. Objectives that were valid then and that are still, with some adjustment, valid today as well. We failed then. Today the Socialist Party is pushing a commission in Congress to assess the self-government as a step forward in addressing constitutional reform. In this framework we have already proposed in Galicia the creation of a parliamentary instrument which feels the basis for changes in the territorial model that Galicia demands, and which may eventually serve as a point of departure and consensus to amend the Statute of autonomy of Galicia, always in respect of the constitutional framework and the mechanisms provided for in the law. Given this initiative we are discussing today, the hopes we have put into this possible reform can seem too ambitious. But there are also underlying reasons. As I said before, this interpretation — let us say — favours me making the initiative, a reform of the Statute by inadequate means, is not actually written on this initiative. At no time do they speak of statutory reform or of respect for the constitutional framework. On the contrary, the evaluation of the constitutional framework is catastrophic and negating reality. I shall read the first sentence of the explanatory statement: "The legal and political framework established since 1978 has consolidated the exercise of centralist power." Since 1978! We came from a confederal state and are now in a centralist model. It's an exercise of dememoria, blindness, dyslate, denial of reality. [[Laughter]] Don't you know where we came from? From a dictatorial and centralized state. And we are in a federal state — federal in our own way — and democratic. More decentralised than Germany, on the Canadian line. I am imperfect, of course, because there were no rules in the 1978 Constitution to build it. Hence the perplexity of that Persian jurist who had invented Cruz Villalon. There was no final horizon to go. There was a construction that between the drive of some communities and preference for decentralization and the desire for the emulation of others brought us here with imperfections, but with a very broad and very general level of decentralization. Thank you, among other things, for the interpretations we don't always share, but which, in general, the Constitutional Court favors the expansion of self-government. This clear framework can be improved, adapted to citizens' preferences, the reality of our time and the needs of a more mature model. The proposal for a new political framework is indeterminate, but, in any case, a ruptureist. He tries to overcome the current institutional political framework, to introduce the right to decide, to use full sovereignty, to exercise freely his own international relations, etc. I call them clarity, let's clear up, and by this way let's also clarify citizenship. What are you talking about? What's the thing? What current model in our context are you thinking about? Which one? Where does such a model work? What is it? Or are we talking about a model that we call as we want but which in the background means independence? You dare speak the word, tell them if it is. And if not, tell me, are we talking about a model similar to... anywhere, that works in our world? We're against if that's the goal. To conclude, I will quote Alexandre Hamilton in El Federalista: "Separation would be as harmful to the economy as it would be to rest, to trade as well as to the tax revenues and freedom of all parties involved." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u186	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u187	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Marea we will support the BNG proposal because we agree with its operative part, even though we differ from some of the reasons raised in its previous presentation. We do not agree with one part of the introduction, particularly in which self-government lacks the political content that is understood, especially in the first paragraphs. In fact, we've been exercising not sovereignty for thirty-five years, but limited self-government, but in materials that are crucial; some of them have been quoted here. To begin with, we share a diagnosis of a pretension of linguistic extermination in the educational field, but this is proposed by decisions taken in this chamber and, in particular, then by the Executive of the Feijóo Government, which can determine one meaning or another. It's also crucial for us to structure our country's health administration, and that's why citizenship is put on the street in defense of essential services that they consider as a material basis for the rest of personal and social rights. When the fire strike struck the country in October, we had no relief in marking the popular benches as responsible for an absolutely inoperative legislative stage that was not carried out and of incompetence and abandonment markedly by the Galician Union; a abandonment that was, first of all, of the whole territory, which made it gradually impoverished and in which children and children did not want to be born. Secondly, by incompetence manifests in the management of the available system of emergency and fire extinction in our country. Thirdly, by an agricultural and forestry model that fosters the monoculture of eucalyptus, the abandonment of agriculture and the delivery to multinationals of a territorial predation model, such as the current case of Touro megaminery, the lack of adaptation to climate change and the lack of assumption of a sustainable public transport model. And in addition, and to finish, by a territorial and urban legislation that served for a chaotic and insufficient territorial model in the provision of services and the generation of friendly public spaces in cities and villages, prone to fundamental rights of an individual and a social nature. No, we cannot simply accept the speech of living in a country without competence, among other things, because it would mean validating the irresponsibility of the ruling action of the People's Party and the majority parliamentary, which we do not do. We don't excuse the government action of these people, because they have a lot of responsibility for the citizen malaise these years. It is not irrelevant to the action of the People's Party, and that is precisely why we support this proposal, because the framework matters, the association of government responsible for the suffering of many people, the precariousness of living and working conditions of many people, the emigration of many young people and the establishment of a state of opinion that there is no future here. [[Applause]] This very morning the Director General of Public Service himself said that he who doesn't like his way of ruling that he commits; said this to the Government this morning, yesterday afternoon, in negotiations with workers and workers of justice, who asked for the improvement of the functioning of an essential public service in democracy; they didn't ask for them, they asked for them all. No, we don't resign and we don't want to emigrate, we plant face. We don't resign because this is our country and we don't want to leave, that's why and, above all, because we don't want to leave anyone behind with our policies. We also take advantage of this forum to call for the immediate cessation of the Director General of Civil Service, for condemning workers and workers to strike for reasons which this Parliament supports and for providing support for resignation and emigration, against the will expressed unanimously by this Parliament. The People's Party once again exercises insolidity, injustice, looks at the particular interest and forgets the suffering of people, of 25% of poverty and social exclusion, of 29% of the wage gap between women and men, of the absence of housing policies and of the suppression of health areas. Of course, self-government has the capacity to condition our well-being and that is why we will support this proposal. We agree, in addition, to overcome this current framework, and we are, because we think that the Autonomy Statute has a double condition of being obsolete and at the same time not being developed. Without development, competences are known, from an integral police replacement to an administrative model on the spot adapted to the reality of our country, to a transport system that really vertebrates in all possible ways, and, in the public sphere, transport and territorial and social cohesion. But above all, because — and I refer to Article 4 of the Autonomy Statute — "a model of social well-being set in material equality which can remove obstacles that prevent people and collectives from fully integrating into society". And at the same time, it is obsolete because there are a number of second-generation statutes, such as Andalusian, Aragonese or the so-called Catalan Statute, which collect social rights letters, expand and guarantee well-being beyond what the Constitution does. Yes, we also want a new legal-political framework that respects our national rights, which recognizes us as a nation within a State that respects multi-nationality and, in accordance with this, establishes a competitive framework that assumes all that the State has so far given up for transfer to autonomous communities, that it makes the administration the main residual clauses of prevalence to its favour and with a framework of fair financing that allows us economic capacity to ensure the provision of rights of those we are competent, the rights of those we are responsible for our citizenship. So this is the key: we want a new framework with a letter of social rights that doesn't leave anyone behind and that cares about what they are, what they've gone and what they're going to come about, through a strategy of enlargement and consolidation of rights that makes social justice the essential feature of our country. I'm done. Finally, In Marea we advocate the affective exercise of the nation in the form of concern, solidarity and social justice for the whole of Greek citizenship and not as a big business, but as a great family, in a framework of effective use of sovereignty as a country, fully developing our political capacity within and outside Galicia. For these reasons, in order to ensure national effectiveness and sovereign effectiveness, we will support all forums, whatever format, also this one, which strengthens our ability to improve people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u188	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the request of the Galego Nationalist Block — literally — "To put in place a formal process of reviewing and overcoming the current political and institutional framework". To address this request from the Galego Nationalist Block, could the arguments of opportunity be alluded to, for example, where is Catalonia and how does the Galego Nationalist Block at this precise moment a follow-up to Catalan sovereignty? We could also go to arguments in a manner, as did the socialist spokesman, about the way this debate was being presented. But I think it deserves to go to a bottom line argument, and that's why I'm going to focus on the background arguments, though without a fear of historical transcendence that the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego, that nothing less than wanted to match in today's debate the Castile and the Bóveda. [[Murmurs.]] The bill calls for this based on two reasons: the insufficiency of the current institutional framework and the alleged insufficiency of the socio-economic results that Galicia has achieved since we entered self-government. On the frame, enough to read the first paragraph of its explanatory statement. One part has already read the socialist spokesman, but says in three lines: "The legal-political framework established since 1978 has consolidated the exercise of centralist power. The institutional design has prevented the exercise of a real self-government by Galicia, leaving the political capacity restricted to a mere administrative decentralization." Three lines and four errors, neglect us, mistakes, disappointments, as you prefer. First, the legal framework established. I want to remember that there was a referendum on December 6, 1978, in which 88% of Spaniards said yes to the late Constitution; in Galicia it was 90.06% of the Greeks. In Spain they voted against 7.89 per cent; in Galicia, contrary to 2.94 per cent. That's why we want to celebrate December 6 this year on the 40th anniversary, so you have nothing to celebrate, because you were the ones who asked for the "no", by the way, together with the extreme Spanish right, in that referendum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Second sentence: "he has consolidated the exercise of centralist power." It's fake, too. On December 21, 1980, we celebrated a referendum of autonomy where 73% of the Greeks voted yes, against 19.77%; you asked for no, along with the extreme Spanish right. And we approved a statute that goes far beyond the Statute of the Republic, which treated Galicia as an autonomous region within the whole State and led, precisely by concluding that referendum, Galicia to the status of historical nationality. You're logically not celebrating it either. Thirdly, they say that institutional design has prevented the exercise of real self-government, which is curious after this Parliament has passed 433 laws since then, 68 of the proposed laws of this House, which make them think that, when it is said that self-government has not been exercised, autonomy, one really does not have the memory too fresh. Of course, these laws were supported by the majority, the majority that express the majority will of the Greek people and in which the Block was also included on one occasion. And he ends the first paragraph by saying that he "made political capacity bound to a mere administrative decentralization." On public spending in Spain — I remind you that the autonomy of spending is fully saved in communities, such as Catalonia, that are involved; in Galicia it was full spending autonomy throughout the exercise of self-government — I will give you the data published to OECD from the average spending by the sub-centres in different countries. In Spain, 34.5%; comes below the state, which spends 20% of the total public resources. In Switzerland it's 36%, a country that has a very advanced federalism, particularly confederal, although it's not a confederation. In the European Union, Belgium, 24%, ten points less. United States of America, 23% of public spending is federated, not from the federation. Germany, 22%. Austria, 16.2%. This, of course, leads us to think that, when it comes to federalism, we should need it, because, indeed, we are far more advanced than many countries which are particularly federal; it is also true that there are others who are above the decentralised expenditure, for example Canada, which has 46%. But, of course, to say that there is no self-government exercise, to say that self-government is lacking in this self-government of spending or to say that there is recentralization, when the autonomous community is the main entity of autonomous spending in all public administrations operating in the territory, it is at least shocking. And they say, secondly, by the results. They say in particular that we had a residual capacity to influence the current institutional framework, and they point out that integration into the European Union had a detrimental effect on productive sectors in the country, and that confirms that there were no opportunities for Galicia to exercise a government with determination and impact on the major political decisions affecting our country. I would like to remind you that there was also a referendum, in this case on 20 February 2005 — Mrs Pontón, you were already a Member, and I can remind you clearly — in which the constitution of the European Union was ratified; there was already a euro; and there Galicia voted 82% in favour; in Spain it was less, 81%; against, in Galicia, 11%; 18% against the whole of Spain. You didn't celebrate it either, you were against the European Union referendum as well. But finally, with the European Union, the Greeks felt that going from EUR 1,600 per capita to EUR 26,000 per capita was a good deal and going from GDP per capita to Spain from 74% to 89% was also a good business. Today we publish precisely that we have an export record in 2017, the best balance in commercial surplus of all autonomous communities, above all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u191	...of the Basque Country, where the three-quarters of these exports went to the European Union. He said this weekend, he remembered philosopher José Antonio Marina, the etimologic source of "autonomy": "auto", we, ourselves, and "names," norm; autonomy is to give itself standards. Galicia, Mrs. Pontón, has exercised autonomy, has given standards, has made it free, in large majority, in three referendums, in ten electoral processes that have not given reason to the Nationalist Block Galego. You will understand, Mrs. Pontón, that exercising sovereignty is not to give you the reason you ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u193	...then the Galician Nationalist Block and the people of Galicia refuse. We, on the other hand, are here because we believe in democracy, we believe in the rules, we believe in politics as public action directed at the common good, but also as a commitment, and we believe in limited, controlled, divisible, negotiable political power, just what the Statute of autonomy, the Spanish Constitution and the Constitution of the European Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u194	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u195	...just as the people of Greece think, just as the people of Greece put us here, to preserve this constitutional framework. And that's why we're going to vote that no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u196	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u197	I shall begin by thanking the spokesperson for his support for this initiative, if I may first. I start again, because I see there are whispers and subtext comments in the Popular Group. [[Murmurs.]] So I want to start by thanking the spokesperson of En Marea for supporting this initiative, in addition to other types of which are our evaluations on other types of positions. Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, came very upset because we have initiatives and we bring proposals to this plenary, in the end... I too, with all tranquility and all courtesy, I think who can be quiet is the People's Party with the opposition you're making to it, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] Because I'm very clear that I don't come here to oppose the opposition — I think there are a lot of people in the popular benches that already make opposition from the opposition — and, of course, I'm sorry that this is your speech, who say that it caused great enthusiasm within the popular ranks. There was a moment I thought you'd be applauded. Anyway, you can't talk here, I've been listening to you all with absolute tranquility. [[Murmurs.]] The spokesperson for the People's Group means that the only one who mentioned Catalonia here was you. I imagine he comes with his feet a little changed. We want to talk about Galicia, about proposals that are important to our country. [[Applause]] He gave me a class on referendums and another kind of state political conformation. I told you that, in any case, the Spanish Constitution did not generate any enthusiasm within the Greeks and the Greeks, in fact, it did not refer to it by a majority. And if I remember correctly, there was a former president, who was at the time of the People's Alliance, who voted against the Statute, of Title VIII of the Constitution, because he was against Autonomy. I don't know if that's the origin of the Popular Party's autonomy. [[Applause]] Of course, whenever we want to, we can talk about what a federation is, what a confederation is; I don't think the Spanish state is either as a federal state or as a confederal state. Why? Because you know that, indeed, in the recognition, for example, of a Confederal State Galicia could be a confederate State, and that would give us the ability not to decide how we manage health or education but decide what educational system we want, what health we want, without the corsets that are currently imposing on us by the state. [[Applause]] I wasn't able to beat myself up on a single data on worrying issues that have to do with the sinking of our country, and I think that anyone would be very worried about the destruction of employment, that emigration is still there, that we are a country that has enormous potential and that, however, we see how young people are still marching in the face of lack of opportunities. I think we all today could see a strong portrait of what's going on in this country, people we've trained, for example doctors and doctors, who say they wouldn't even come back to Galicia because of working conditions. I think that's what should worry them the most. We make a bet today, which is really a very simple bet, which if any group wanted to amend, could also amend the text that we proposed and speak. And the text says that we agree to "constitute a presentation that aims to analyse and develop a proposal on a new institutional political framework that guarantees our right to decide and lays the foundations for the progress and well-being of the Greek people." That's what we're voting for, not if you're in agreement or not with the BNG position. And what I see is that once again the immobilism of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u199	...it's against Galicia, because all you care about is growing up in the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Juan José Merlo Lorenzo, on the introduction into the label of the fishing sealRías, where else not? the price paid per kilo to the mariner or mariner, as well as a QR code that leads directly to the traceability section of the product on the www.deondesenon.junta.gal website
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u201	There are two amendments: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u202	Mr Merlo has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u203	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the products of the Galician rivers are recognized nationally and internationally by their quality. They are emblem and therefore one of those who best represent Galicia, and therefore defend them and potential must be one of the priorities of all public administrations. In addition, we must remember that more than 20,000 families live in the sea sector, representing, therefore, a fundamental motor for the Greek economy, not only by the number of direct jobs it generates but also by the thousands it generates indirectly, around four indirect posts on average for each direct job. There is an important effort in the sector for the sustainability and quality of catches, which, unfortunately, still today goes unnoticed to a large part of consumers, who are beneficiaries of this effort. After all, sustainability comes not only from the protection and care of resources but also from the economic viability of the professional activity of the sector, which is often uncertain by adverse factors from climate change, increasingly restrictive quotas for some fundamental species and fiscal pressure that seems to not understand often these difficulties arising from the competitive disadvantages that the sector suffers from the already exposed reasons. In 2008, Junta developed the fishing brandRías, where else?, with the aim of identifying and ensuring the traceability of sea products from the artisanal and sustainable fleet of the Galician coast. The products labelled under this brand guarantee the origin, freshness and quality of the environment and the application of good practices in their manipulation by the companies responsible for placing these foods on the market; a seal, therefore, that allows the consumer to recognise more clearly the indigenous products, so that they can differentiate from competition to enhance the added value that they represent for our fish and seafood to the market, fresh and quality products. They may be users of this brand operators of the chain of production and marketing of fishery and seafood products, whenever the installations are found within Galicia and comply with the requirements of the Regulation collected in the Order of 7 February 2008 establishing and regulating the use of the fishing markRías, where else? The traceability of the product, therefore, is one of the greatest and greatest competitive advantages that this brand brings, where it can be seen by the consumer through the website of the label. However, the process of collecting the code to be able to access the information linked to it on the web is neither simple nor dynamic in practice for the end consumer. Yesterday, the Mar advisor, Rosa Quintana, said that measures must be taken to ensure that fish and seafood have a higher price on the shores, and for that reason he says that we need to value the product more and sell it through criteria that believe the differentiated quality; we need to value our products more in the first place. In this same line, this initiative moves the need to bring in existing information which is easily accessible to people in the production and marketing chain of these products to end consumers. The labelling shows the consumer the catch zone, the length of origin, the commercial and scientific denomination and the method of production, among others; however, there is a lack of information which would be very valuable to the consumer: the price paid to the mariner/marisher for this product that will be consumed. In this way, the consumer would also know how much one of these thousands of people working from the sea in Galicia is perceived. We have an extraordinary product, which can cover the growing demand for healthy food by consumers, some of them new consumers, and to highlight in a more effective way the quality not only of the product but of the whole process that takes place from its extraction to the moment of reaching the final consumer. The following proposal was put forward: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to put on the label of the fishing sealRías, where else not? the price paid per kilogram to the sailor or sailor. And in point 2: Install a QR code in the label of the brandRías, where else not? leading directly to the traceability section of the product at www.deondesenenon.junta.gal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u204	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The P.P. of Feijóo inherited from the P.S.D.P.P.P. the seal of Rías, where else not?, launched in 2008 by the Councillory of the Sea, and that was all he did: inheriting a seal, a seal that was born to ensure that the information came from far to the plate. [[Applause]] He didn't eliminate him but he let him die, he never bet on him, he never bet on the Galician brand. And I'm going to explain why I'm saying this: because they haven't done the necessary work for the consumer to be willing to pay another euro if the product is certified. And they didn't do this job because the longs aren't interested in being associated either, because the consumer doesn't demand it, and doesn't demand it because the government lets the stamp die. And I'm going to explain this from the lengths so you can understand. For example, if we take the Coruña, you will see that important distances, such as the Coruña or the Cedeira, are not even associated, and if we take Lugo, we see that only Burella shipowners are associated, just as they have no laugh — things go wrong!—. One thing. Do you know that in order for the product to be certified and not lose the seal it is necessary that each link in the chain, each element that intervenes in the preparation, marketing, processing, each of these elements is certified? Do you know that? Well, what we're talking about today is that the lengths aren't exactly interested, then they're lost; if a link in this chain fails, certification is lost. That's what we're talking about today. So I ask again what work this government has done for you to fish, a seal that we let you do for socialists, customers are willing to pay for something else if the product is certified. I've already told them: none; they left the seal dead. It's been ten years, some kind of management was expected. I also encourage you to enter the Rías fish web site — if you can — who enter and try to become an associated company, try it, you'll see that the latest page is available. So, of course, then we read the press and found such news: "Rosa Quintana claims to give more value to the fish. The Sea Councillor points out that it is still an outstanding debt." Man, that's what I told him. She was so busy fishing less and she had yielded more than she had forgotten the second part, that she made more; then, now she did not surrender. Of course, that's what we socialists have been saying to him for a long time. I would laugh, of course, I would laugh, but the point is that we are talking about people, people and much more than a seal, about the discriminatory situation in which the Galician fleet is located in a global environment where we all find products from other countries, from third countries, at a price far below the price of our products. And then you know what's going on: the panga, the tilapia, species that are characterized by rapid growth, that's what's on the market. What kind of controls does this government also make about exports from third countries, which do not — you know — have the same conditions or the same social levels? We know, through European Union legislation, that everything that is fishing within the European Union will ensure sustainability, but what about imports from those third countries? What controls does this government exercise? How does the Galician fleet compete in those conditions? Well, since it's not reducing costs, it can't do it, and to reduce costs, it has to invest in innovation, technological development. But, ah!, Feijóo's PP has reduced those shares in 2018 budgets, i.e., that it can't reduce costs either; the only thing left is to increase income, and for that we move again to Rías' seal, but it turns out they let him die. That's how the situation is. We have a product of the best quality. I'm not going to explain to you here what's our Greek product, but you know we have a product of the best quality. This government has not bet on the quality of its product and now makes statements that it has a debt pending. Of course you do, of course you do! We have the best product, we have to bet on it. And that's why we made our amendment to the initiative presented by the En Marea group. We have made an amendment, which all he does is adapt, to our understanding, his initiative to reality. We can't understand that the QR code takes the rías fish when we see that rías fish, if you go in there, is totally dead. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u207	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Let's see, Mrs. Toja, if you let the fishing mark die, would you I go in my intervention to teach a label that puts -- I don't know if you see it from there -- : "FishingRies, where else?", the labelling that is still in force. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows a document.]] If it is true that it began in 2008, yes it is true, but, of course, in 2008 and 2009, in those two years, the value of the Greek product was scarce, because we are here and we are now going to recognize all of us here that we have a magnificent product, of course yes!, as Mr. Merlo said, in addition, that happens inadvertently; I believe that the consumer is not, every time the consumer is more demanding, the consumer is demanding more and has to check it out on the label. So this PNL is on the label, Mrs. Toja. You here have the maxistral solution to solve all the problems of the Galician fleet, but this goes from labelling, from QR code, and from fishingRías, where else not? The truth is that this mark is true if it was implanted by the Bipartite, it was implanted and we inherited it, but, above all, we had to turn it around and make it have benefits and have good results, I'm going to give it a given: it's that this year it's broken... Mr. President, it's bothering me with the murmuring of the bench. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u208	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u209	We finally broke the 500 million euro roof in revenue from first sale in Galicia; that's what you didn't say. And, in addition, since the fishing markRías was under that stamp, the data on the product certified for first sale have risen to 14,932.010 tonnes of product — I tell you the specific data — since the brand was created until 2017. In addition, according to the data, there are 84 certified companies that adhere to this seal offish and 238 companies that are also members of — restaurants, fish shops, shops on line — and you were also talking about lengths, sales centres, purification centres. I mean, she's not dead for anything. Ask here now to include the source price. Let's see, this has to be seen too, because here we're talking about traceability, and we're talking about that traceability, which is fundamental and very necessary to include in a product, in this case in the Greek fish, but we have to be very careful with the introduction of different elements for very different purposes as well, because that can hinder the traceability and the objective it has to have, which has to be useful and must be advantageous. And for that to happen, it has to be simple and it has to be reliable. So, if you want to include a price in origin, which there is already a code that indicates and sends and you can see the original price in the pocket, if you want to put the indicative price in specific source, it would be even more complicated what the product label is. Why does it have to be simple and have to be reliable? A study by the European Union — the latest study on labelling products, and especially seafood and food — said that more than half of the people did not understand the labels. So we have to go and we have to steer towards the simplest and most comfortable. You propose the QR code, which is already inserted for other data, but it is that in the fishing brandRías — that is, if you make an idea of a label — here you have a code that puts "catch date", and from there, with that date on the web, you can access the price of push and the price that was paid in the first push of the product. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows a document.]] So there's no way you can access that price. So if in this tag, which already has a lot of data and already has the regulation data, we still include prices for all products, we could also incur confidential data, because you in your PNL suggest you put up to the price almost or the person who sold that product in the first pocket. So we could make serious mistakes and also incur some price mixes, because you know there are batch mixes in this case. So we believe that that goes far beyond the Rías fishing brand, which is a brand that of course we support, which is a brand that guarantees in addition that the quality Greek product can be sold and can be accessed to it, and that, by applying it, you can enter into a breach of rules on data protection and similar. We make an amendment, because we also want there to be simplicity, that traceability is correct and that the price can also be known by the consumer. So we propose an amendment, and we would say that it has to be indicated by link to Galician fishing space.gal, based on the knowledge of origin and date established in the code already inserted in the label, the pox values at first sale of the product, because so we would know perfectly what the price at first bid, as I said. The QR code, or the numeric code, could have the same consequences, and it could lead to access to a web and data that would be the same, because we also know that in QR code you have to have a specific device, with a specific application, and we know that you didn't have integration into society as expected. So we believe that in the traceability that all the products of the sea have no real need to introduce that specific price, in addition to the differences, and in addition there could be some error, because you could make a average price of different lots, because you know that sometimes they go with different prices in a common batch. So we have to be very careful with what we propose, and we believe that these are now sufficiently guaranteed and developed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u211	...the rights of consumers, without the introduction of what you propose there is no improvement in this. We hope that we can come to an agreement with that amendment, because we believe that access to that website at the price of putting it first would be to ensure that the consumer knows the price of the product he consumes in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u213	Mrs. People's Party, he wasn't dead, he was a scoundrel, was he? [[Applause]] Yes, look, brand and quality stamps are precisely for the protection of a product, for the promotion, for excellence. And, of course, we're talking about the products of the Galician sea, which we don't need to talk about its quality, of a sustainable sector to which the People's Party, with its measures, does nothing more than pursue, than criminalize, and which then comes here saying that yes, who is delighted to protect and such things; with one hand does one thing and with the other hand does the opposite. I don't know how many times I've heard the sea councillor, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, say that we have to go to sea for money, not for fish, it's like saying that we have to go to sea for quality, quality and experience, and not for kilograms. And these days they're on the route of billing and unloading. These days there's the People's Party, the advisor and President Fexóo, in promoting the best data since there are historical meters of billing and tons. So we found that in 2016 there were 188,456 tons and in 2017, 210,875 tons, an increase of 12%, an important thing, because we're going to the extra, and it turns out that there was an increase of 7 million, 1.36% in billing. And that's to be very satisfied, that is, an increase of 12% in kilograms and tonnage, and 1.36% in billing. And it's a cause for promotion by the Government of the Union. So, I'd like you to explain to me how the two questions are combined: if you don't have to go to sea for kilos, but for money, and put value on what the People's Party is doing, so that you can see that equation that the People's Party is making, the Government of the Union, so that our sailors can go to sea to value the price of the products and not go fishing any less at a price. So there we would enter a quality seal, we would enter the initiative that is brought here today in Marea and we would enter what is being done to make quality brands and sea products look like a way to promote products so that this quality really will be found at price, and not that it increases 12% of the tonnage and that 12% only translates to 1.36% — data from the Government of Greece, data from the Council, data that these days are, I insist, in a promotional campaign. I mean, you don't feel sorry for what they say about what they do, you don't really feel sorry for anything they do. And indeed, the quality brand of Rías is a brand that is theoretically to value freshness, it is to value diversity, it is to value the middle, it is to value quality. But, of course, there is no real promotion on the part of the German Government to make this happen. You could tell us, that you are a great acquaintance for example of the port of Vigo, Madam, what is the reality of this brand, which was put into operation in 2010, in the port of Vigo; scandalous, scandalous, practically does not exist, does not exist. And we could talk about the rest of the ports of general interest, and that the reality is that only in some quarters, and the reality is that only in some high- standing restaurants are associated with that quality brand and that they practically use it to value the brand of establishment, but there is not a bet on the part of the German Government to put in value the products of our sea. With which, I, with some nuances, indeed, about the initiative as it is brought today in Marea, but what if it is a reality is that there is a series of instruments to value our sea, which the highest interests are the sector itself, but which you see as the Government, on the side of putting itself on its side, what it does is to put poles on the wheel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u215	...in the sector itself, and that there is absolutely no interest because that binomy price-quality is a real reality. There is absolutely no interest. The only interest is this data, making advertising campaigns, without then pitying any reality, none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor, Mr. Merlo Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u217	Thank you very much. Let's see, Mrs. Toja, it's not just, as you said, that we have many low quality products on the market, like the panga for example, that they promote themselves and empower themselves in the face of the consumer much more and much better than the products themselves in the stream. It's just that the point of the matter is that often these low-quality products are also in school dining, in hospital dining, etc., etc. That's a problem. Obviously, we have to have a bet and believe it from the beginning and from the public administrations, from all of them, that our product has an excellence and a quality and that, therefore, we have to be the first defenders to the virtue of it. This is a reality we have today. And the consumer often demands that quality, but there are many new consumers, as we say, people who come from another type of food, who are returning to a more traditional diet, who look back at sea for products of a much better quality and nutritional value, and obviously do not have such extensive knowledge as much of our population, which if they have it. Of course, for these people, for this type of consumer, all the information will always be little. QR code, Mrs. Egerique, is already available on any current mobile device today, without the need for any additional application. If you have a terminal with iOS operating system, you can directly, from the camera itself, point a QR code and your own terminal automatically detects and pulls an indicator by telling you that you can go to that page; you can check it whenever you like. Anyway, the initiative applies to us just like the QR code, which is already applied, or to a similar mechanism. Here's the question, the bottom line of the initiative's interest, is precisely to make it easier for that consumer when he has an effective and agile way to access that information; that is, on that label, what we're saying is that often that code to identify that product is made up of a sort of 6 to 10 digits, alphanumeric characters and so on, often very difficult to memorize or point, to go to a web to follow them. We're trying to make that step easier. If there's a process different from that link that you said can speed up and simplify this process, by us the format, which is a QR code — which seems to us the most appropriate — or another one, it's not going to be the obstacle to getting this initiative forward. In that line, I understand that we can come up with a proposal from our group that exactly satisfies the spirit of both amendments. And with that will I suppose we will have a meeting place enough to guarantee this. I highlight again the interest and importance of all that information reaching the end consumer in an efficient way, because it's a little bit the line that all groups here think we're working on and betting on it. And then, obviously respecting the price you're paid, it's not about saturating an information subject on your own label. It just seems like an interest in doing a consumer pedagogy, because there is often a chain of value to know. If the topic of including it in the label by the various lots or splits of which a product may be composed, even though in the label the lot is identified -- they don't usually mix the lots -- because I'm going to make a proposal to the groups to look for a balance point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u219	...that does not incorporate in the a priori label that price, but that it does in a very clear way in the final result of that traceability, once the user approaches the code and enters the web, to have exactly the value of that price, that post of that product. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Merlo. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and seven other Members, on the inclusion by the Galician Board of Modular Housing Construction in its Public Promotion Housing Programme
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u221	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments: the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u222	To formulate the non-law proposition has the word Mr. Castineira Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to begin by thanking the presidency and the spokesmen and the spokesmen of the Socialist Party for allowing me to debate this initiative today and change the agenda. Thank you to all the comrades and comrades of this institution. We have a proposal that is to urge the Galician Union to include the modular construction of housing within its Public Promotion Housing Programme. The proposal is to carry out small groups of public promotion housing of single-family typology as pilot experience. This would give rise to support for a sector in Galicia which is currently on the rise, which is growing in our community, and at the same time boosting innovation in residential building. In any case, these actions do not intend, at least, to replace traditional or conventional construction, which will remain — or must remain — the basis of the construction of public promotion housing, especially in buildings of collective residential typology. At this time there are many modular construction companies in Galicia that are in full development and these kinds of solutions and bets from the administration itself and other administrations that can also logically help boost innovation of new technologies and new applications in this sector, and also, why not, those companies that are currently starting or jumping in Galicia. Modular housing we all know that in recent times their popularity is increasing, because the quality of the same day by day is improving. We are not talking about modular dwellings of the time when it developed fundamentally with great auxe, which was after the Second World War, or the 1960s, where they were, so to speak, modular dwellings or buildings of fully rigid modular dwellings, all were equal. And we have examples that it's best not to remember, like the housing built by the Soviet regime in Poland, in Potsdam, which are 4,000 all the same housing that logically they're not much less to remember or to have in memory, completely dormitory cities. But it was not only in Poland but in England something like that happened, or in other places where they even collapsed, as is the case with France. It has to be said that in the case of France, a regulation has been put in place prohibiting projects from having more than 300 homes. We're talking about the seventies, where they were forbidden to have more than 300 dwellings, because of the uniformity there was, because of the rigidity that was in the systems at that time. Even though there are examples, such as Le Grande Borne in Paris, or examples from Stockholm, where they really are examples, but very timely cases, so to speak. The idea — as I have said — is that the board devotes a part to construction and includes the construction of modular housing, betting — if possible — by Galician innovation companies. And these are actually built in a factory, manufactured, sent to the ground, put on a cementation -- that if you have to do it on site -- and the rest is to assemble and mount. At present these buildings can have a competitive design like any one, of course, with qualities, with finishes, so that there are many buildings that in most cases, to really know if we're talking about a modular dwelling or a conventional housing, you'd almost have to be real experts in order to differentiate them. And I think that's where we have to go: quality and the advantages that this type of construction can offer and that actually offer, as is its speed of execution -- they are very short run times -- the final price is agreed, there's a contract and a closed price, because it's buying what's an installation made and with the key in hand, so to speak. There are, like, no situations that can be done in work, from climate to other kinds of issues. They're somewhat cheaper than conventional ones; we're talking about around 10-20% more economical than conventional ones, with construction systems with exactly equal, equal, logically comparable materials. And then we can even be talking about better quality control, since doing it in the factory are systems that allow quality control much easier and much better than in the work, which logically or permanently looks exactly as it is done or if it's not very difficult sometimes to have full control, so to speak. These dwellings, of course, are adjusted, like any other, to the codes and norms for the construction of buildings: technical building code, technical fitness documents, habitability, municipal license, architect project, work management etc., etc., logically, as it cannot be otherwise. The development of new materials and constructive techniques is currently providing — as I said — the rise of this modular construction and also responds to an increasingly demanding current demand — as it should — of citizens towards the new housing model as regards prices, execution and delivery deadlines, security, energy saving, low environmental impact — in the construction process above all, because, of course, we are doing it in a enclosure like a factory, or a large part — and then, logically, sustainability. We're talking about that the objective logically is to think, project and develop new and advanced buildings, with building materials and systems based on the use of steel, pretentious concrete or in the form of panels and other components and various modern and durable materials; ultimately, a model of coherent construction energetically. This, united — as I said before — which is manufactured within a factory, takes with it a production of less waste and a management within a factory, easier to control — or should be at least, that is what it must be —, with which we carry more sustainable buildings, which we must also bet clearly on. And since the building system is based on light construction systems, lightweight structures, metal fundamentally, and pre-industrialized elements, of easy assembly and disassembly, we are talking about that they are recyclable — so to speak — because virtually all elements can be recycled and reused, from window structures to windows, exterior walls, indoor tabiques — which are usually made of plaster cardboard, external carpentry, etc., etc. That is to say, even these types of buildings are buildings that never fall, but they are disassembled, transported and rebuilt if necessary; that is, they are recycled. If we make history — as I said something earlier — we must not look at the system that was many years ago, after the Second World War — the 1960s essentially — when the most dominated these types of constructions, since they were totally rigid systems, and logically very different constructive moments than they are now. That is to say, at this moment you can build a building, especially single-family housing, where they are expanded by modules, and even when a building is completed, you can continue to expand it. I mean, this is a system in which in many countries of the world it is already progressing and has been very busy; maybe America had been one of the most advanced countries in which it has worked from the very first moment and has become the most standardized construction. And we can even have the Chicago model, where since its foundation in the year 1930 the urban grid itself consists of a griddled mesh with quadrilled plots where it's expanding as needed; that is, the streets are extended, it's expanding and there's no problem, it can grow to infinite. And even there was after the great fire that virtually swept it away in 1871, which was where steel technology, steel structures, and skyscrapers and other types of constructions that now predominate throughout the world, began to be implanted. I mean, it's progress that's going on and I think we should be there as autonomy, like Together. That's why we insist that you support yourself, if you do a series of pilot experiences of this kind of building, that we're convinced you might be worth it. Logically, without any incentive to do more, but it must be remembered that already at the beginning of the last century great architects, such as Le Corbusier or Van der Rohe, were clearly betting at that time on prefabricated construction and industrialization systems of the construction process. I think we should help and bet on progress and technology, and in that sense we are presenting this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u225	Thank you, President. First of all, my condolences, Mr. Castineira. And, Mr. Castineira, introduction, development and conclusion concentrated on six lines, a perfect summary of what is the effort in housing policy of this government. I don't know if the People's Party can take it very seriously, Mr. Castineira, as one day you moved me. But I think if you give enough samples of laundry: the house by the roof. Today the People's Party shows us, once again, that he likes to start home on the roof. Not only does he want to start the house on the roof but he wants to sell it before he has it. Because, look, by reading this extensive exhibition of motives — which at least has that virtue of which you call to read it over and over again — we are reminded of the question of whether you know where they are, at what time we live, if you know what the current context is. The big argument you use to defend the impulse of modular construction is the saving of time, and that's where the initiative would rotate. And why would you pee, Mr. Castineira? Because, to be interested in saving time, you have to give yourself an earlier basic principle, which is to be doing something, exactly what you're not doing about housing and public promotion. And I give him data. In 2007, 3,000 public promotion homes were launched in Galicia. On the other hand, in the first three quarters of 2017, there were 5 houses accounted for; and in 2016, the year before, there were 4 houses started in Galicia. With this data, do you really believe that the great problem of public housing policy in Galicia is saving time? That's on the one hand. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the Socialist Group is deeply concerned that you link the use of modular housing to the most disadvantaged social classes — which is what the initiative says — to the Socialist Group. We understand that modular construction contributes to other types of systems reducing the times of the construction process, that is true. But this makes sense especially in the face of surviving causes, such as natural disasters, or for reasons of social emergency, in which digestion, indeed, has to be maximum. In the rest of the cases, the choice of this system would not be particularly justified. Is that an option? It is. But is your choice justified above another system? Frankly, no. And I'll give you another argument. Modular will be connected to standardization, because it is the use of a standard that makes sense of the effectiveness of a system, of this system. But associating standardization with families with the most difficult is a huge mistake. I ask you, Mr. Castineira, personally: do you personally like to be classified? Do you feel comfortable with the negative generalizations that are made about your party? I'm sure not. Why then do you think the most disadvantaged families in Galicia want to live in corrosive buildings and classify them? Perhaps in the type of single-family dwellings it has more room, but in the multi-family, this system conditions its flexibility enormously. We're not going to deny that they are constructively valid solutions, because it's valid any system that meets the Technical Code of Building, which is what looks like building quality. But if something good occurred just before the crisis was the promotion of many public housing contests, and not only in Galicia, but throughout Spain, which gave rise to typologically innovative and exemplary solutions. For the first time, the housing was treated as a full right and not as an annoying obligation to the administration. That's why we understand that modular construction is a more suitable formula for solving emergency situations and in which the need for a roof is the priority, but it must not assume the definitive solution for the most disadvantaged families, because they, like the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks, deserve homes with the best typological and quality standards and should not be treated as something to vent quickly. So, and to get done, don't mistake your goals. The current urgency of the nearly 11,500 Galicians who are on the waiting list to opt for a dwelling in Galician Union is resolved by increasing the money destined for the promotion of these. If there's money, there's construction, and with it, more housing is available; and if you don't solve this before, it's just useful to promote one or another building system. So let them hide the reality which is the null implication of this government in promoting public housing; start home by the cements; increase the budget by recovering the levels of 2008, in which seven times more investment was made...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u227	...—48 million against the current 7 million—; the Government of the State is urging the Government to approve the 2018-2021 Housing Plan and resolve the situation of disappearance that lives on from 31 December following the expiry of the previous plan. And, after dealing with these questions, then yes, they think about how they want that roof...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u229	... yes—but not forgetting that the good constructions, like the good arguments, must be well-armed, and you, of scrap, in the matter of public housing, are more scarce. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. You have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u231	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Castineira said that the purpose of this initiative that brings home, on Social Justice Day, is to have new materials to build buildings. It seems quite obscene to us, on Social Justice Day, that the People's Party brings a housing initiative whose aim is to have better materials, with the serious problems we have in housing, and when Galicia does not guarantee access to a housing worthy of all Greeks and Greeks. You brought here today an initiative, another initiative, of stone paper, which solves no problems. If we approve this initiative today, tomorrow, to the Greeks and to the Greeks doesn't change their lives at all, there's no solution, you don't give any concrete action; you just made an exhibition here that well deserves the applause of the best commercial building materials: we learn a lot about modular housing, but there was absolutely no political content. They don't bring any proposals. What solvent? What problem of citizenship solves this initiative? In your reply, say here that housing problems, by approving this initiative, are resolved in Galicia, because it is not accompanied by any concrete action. We understand that modular housing can be a time-consuming solution for people who need it the most, in an urgent way, while waiting for a traditional housing. It seems to us that for this it can be useful, but, as the Socialist Party's spokesman put it, they're not doing the other side. We have many doubts about this initiative, because recently the government of the Barcelona Town Hall, with Ada Colau in the head, has just approved a modular housing construction project, a pilot project of 92 homes, while building another 4,400; from here at the end of legislation, it's going to do a pilot program with 92, to give the people who are waiting for a housing. But you, the People's Party, in Barcelona, voted against, Mr. Castineira; you voted against this proposal. So we have many doubts: why is Barcelona not worth it, and yet here it is? And I tell you why we have so many doubts and I quote words from Mr. Alberto Fernández, president of the Municipal Group of the PP in Barcelona: "The wager for modular housing is electoralist and he wants to quickly solve the public housing deficit with prefabricated buildings" — he called us "low-cost tabiques"—. So we asked ourselves: do you consider that they are bad-quality products, as they said in Barcelona, and consider that the Greeks and the Greeks deserve a worse quality in the housing than in Catalonia? I say, please, this question: why aren't they worth it in Catalonia, because they're low-cost, and why do they do it in Galicia? We need to get rid of that doubt. And the other possibility, the reason why they voted against, if they don't think they're of bad quality, is that in Barcelona it was accompanied by a concrete action; then, what you're against is that there's a concrete action and they just want to bring an initiative of paripé that stays there, and there it is, to cover the bill and to say that they bring housing initiatives, but they're not accompanied by any action. Please, we need this doubt to be clarified. What don't you like about Barcelona? What's going on with a performance, which offers solutions to housing problems? What do you work to guarantee the right to live in people's homes and it's not a Parisian proposal that doesn't bring anything along? We need to get rid of that doubt. As I tell you, there are 9,000 homes in Barcelona, the public housing park in Barcelona is 9,000 homes and, at the moment, the City Hall in Barcelona, with 600,000 inhabitants, has 4,400 more running; we have 3,500. The housing data in Galicia are scandalous: we have 3,500 homes and there are 11,500 people who meet the requirements and are on the waiting list. And since 2008, you have reduced 90%, 90%!, investment in public housing construction. The data... the situation... the difficulties you have in accessing a decent housing in Galicia... the citizenship doesn't need a PNL of stoneboard, as you bring here; you need investments, we need to recover the 48 million, the best of 2008, surely increase them; if not, the 3 million 2017 in public housing construction; we need serious active policies and policies for housing access, which are budgeted in a serious way and are executed, and not as we have some live quarters running, in 2016, of 15%. While most European countries have a public housing park that exceeds 10%, Galicia is below 1%, and you still reduce investment by 90%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u233	While most European countries spend 2% of their budget on active housing policies, Galicia is 0.7%. This is the reality in a precarious situation of citizenship, with 300,000 people who earn less than the minimum wage; with almost one-third of the people at risk of exclusion and poverty; a lease bubble that starts to be viewed, it begins to threaten; with the increase in the number of refugees this year, and you have an initiative that doesn't solve any of these problems at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u235	So I tell you: if you want us to support this initiative, accept our amendment, which is a very little ambitious amendment, which is accompanied by a pilot test.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u237	...of 100 dwellings, and if you accompany it with an act, we will support it; if it's just stoneboard and it solves nothing, because of course we're not going to support it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u239	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I would not know how to qualify for this initiative, which, in any case, has already been qualified by the Bureau. But, well, we could say it's a "minimalist" initiative, if we had to qualify it, or a "escapist" initiative, or, I don't know, new age, even. We assume that in the next plenary session, an initiative will be brought here to support Marta Sánchez's hymn. I suppose it will be the great innovation that the People's Party will bring and will also present motions in the city halls, because, besides, now, how they are in this fight with Citizens to see who is most patriot, because it will present an initiative and I suppose they will also tell Marta Sánchez to come live for Spain; not in one of these modular buildings, in a house as it deserves, and pay here their taxes — I suppose they will also do so on that initiative. [[Laughter]] Well, by the way, this measure, for what we know and for what you said in this minimalistic exposition of your non-law proposition, was included in the election program of the People's Party of 2016 and, we know, is the same party that rules in Galicia's board, or is it not? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because now, with that thing of looking like Citizens, we don't know very well where they are anymore; they have a problem of identity, we don't know where they want to be. Well, it turns out he's been taken to the program, they've been running for years and a half, and what problem did they have to set it up? What's wrong? What do you have to doubt? Aren't they clear? Do you want the support of opposition groups on this issue? What's wrong? Don't you trust your own proposals? They had a moment of weakness — we think —. What's wrong? That, of course, calls for support for this initiative, but not for the necessary public housing policies in this country. The evidence is that you don't want to agree to these policies, because here, repeatedly, opposition groups have brought proposals that you put down. So if you want to agree on something, we can propose, for example, to agree on the criteria for the allocation of funds from the Rexurbe program or from the Urbe program of the Housing and Environment advisors that you share to your free will; of course, by favoring the councils of your party with absolutely partisan criteria. Look, yeah, that's right, and we have data from the conventions, we read them here and we can read them again, and we'll discuss this issue when it touches. The counsellor came here at several appearances throughout this legislation and told us not of this star measure they had in their program. And where they have to put it into practice anyway it's in budgets, approving budgets. They already had two budgets to carry out this measure. Even though it's in the budgets it doesn't mean much either, because the levels of budget execution, precisely from the Housing Council, are not like throwing rockets, when games like rehabilitation and housing quality had 15.8% in 2016, 7.3% in 2014 and 1.3%, which should be the lowest in the history of Galician Union, in 2013. I mean, it's not that the budgets have dropped in the amounts that were said here, is that the few budgets for public housing policies are not being used, Mr. Castineira. In short, what makes this proposal manifest is the failure of the government housing policy of the Galician Union, especially what it has to do with access to public promotion housing for those more than 11,500 people who are registered demanding a public protection housing; it has to do with those low levels of budget execution, with those budget reductions; it also has to do with the inability that you are demonstrating to mobilize a real rental public housing park, which would really be the most revolutionary measure that could be taken at this time in this country to deal with the housing problem. And you created that plus measure, didn't you? which is the Empty Housing Program, which is mainly used to oppose the municipal governments of the cities. And, of course, to deal with the most serious problem of the thousands of people who have suffered and continue to suffer from evictions. In short, the BNG will not vote against this initiative for coherence, especially because the BNG has already carried out such initiatives when it has held government responsibilities in the Housing Council, by the way, successful initiatives such as those carried out in Reconco, in the Maceda Council, for specific issues and to deal with situations of social emergency, which is what we believe that these measures should be used primarily, curiously then, with its opposition and its criticisms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u241	They could go on, but they stopped these pilot programs, precisely then, and now they're talking about these issues in 2018. And we are not going to support this initiative either because it seems to us like a generic, vague, vague initiative, and because we want a debate, a real, fundamental agreement on other public housing policies and not partial measures, patches and false magic solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u242	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. By the author of the non-law proposition, Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u243	Mrs. Pierres, the truth is that it surprises me, I have to say. You, precisely, let me be surprised, because Mr. Bara and Mr. Cal expected that, but you doubt the quality of the modular constructions--he said it here and it's in...--, he doubts it, and you too, because you said it. [[Murmurs.]] No, for Marta Sánchez you can put on a building like this and for the others like that... No, a construction of this kind can have and must have better quality than a conventional -- and I said so -- [[Murmurs.]] We're not talking about 100 homes in the rigid system of the 1960s, we're talking about constructions that exceed quality, quality controls, conventional housing; that's why we're talking about first-line housing. And public promotion housing, financed exclusively from Galician funds, the Autonomous Community, exclusively, is not part of the National Housing Plan, state, 2008-2021, that's another thing, it has nothing to do with this, Mrs Pierres. Funded, they're for people, for the most needy, the most disadvantaged families. We don't make public promotion housing for families who can pay for housing. [[Murmurs.]] So we're talking about public promotion housing. There is the conventional model, basically, and at the moment there are no guarantees or levels of technologically executed that provide sufficient guarantees for collective housing. That's why we have to tell you not to take your initiative, Mr. Cal. Why? Because a hundred houses are a collective building. Perhaps that's why they voted different in Barcelona. We're talking about single-family housing groups, because then it's there, the ones that can be done. We will have to test -- four, five, ten -- we will have to test, we build several and the islands by testing, and if one day there's an emergency we know how they work, and we'll see the quality; and I trust companies, who are now leaping technologically and with leading initiatives in this field. Hey! we have to work in that sense, and logically with the controls, that for that are the technicians of what we are in part of the profession; that is, hey!, you have to logically control the qualities that are put there. But why do we doubt this kind of construction? Well, you said it here, and you look down on it; this is for temporary constructions, but for permanent constructions... it's that Mrs. Ada Colau in Barcelona is going to make a hundred dwellings, but for temporary construction, this type of building. Look, if they're temporary, I don't know the quality they put on. I also want to tell you that in Barcelona—unfortunately for the Barcelonas and the Barcelonas—the price of housing is more than twice that of any city in Galicia; then, perhaps they need more housing, a lot more. We're talking about totally different problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u245	We can't bring the problems out there. And man, tell me to get back the budget of 48 million in 2008. If we didn't have to save the gestures of two hundred sixty-million euros of broken down they left, perhaps many homes could have been made in this autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u247	But that's what you're responsible for. You're responsible for that government. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, what I want to tell you is that, with municipalities like the Coruña, to rule us like those of En Marea, Podemos and others, if they don't ask for or the subsidies they're given, it's hard for you to rehabilitate historical cases and it's hard for you to take a level of budget execution, because, if there's money for that and it's not executed, you can hardly meet the target of 100 percent execution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u248	Thank you very much. I understood that the amendments did not accept them. [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]] Amendment of the development of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u249	We're making a change in the agenda. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures taken or planned by the Galician Union in relation to the alleged irregularities existing in the management of the verdour of the Miramontes canteira, in the parish of Grixoa, in the municipality of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u250	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, when one approaches the valley where Grixoa sits, at this time we walk and with this already spring we celebrate, with this intense green of the meadows, with the rivers in full, before entering the valley, the traveller feels greeted by the endless oak trees that border him. This one who talks to them, captivated by such beautifulness, forgot that he was going to see a dump that embodies an exaggerated sum of disposing. The affected platform has long drawn attention to the environmental disaster in the landfill in general: its unfortunate location, in a high orography; its dangerous proximity to the cores of population; the poor perimeter protection; what was driving us in this country to place the dumps on the top that dominate the births of rivers and streams!, which was driving with water! Because, wherever we want, that slag shards like a slice of the old villages, except that this manure is another kind of manure; that one gave life, this plant, besides smelling. Because the pollution caused by the activities of the environmental complex is due to the almost non-existence of the mandatory controls guaranteed by the levels of pollution and the almost null and void monitoring of the good practice of the companies operating in it. At this point, deep analytical studies have not yet been carried out or heated to the glass of the dump, although they have been done at the plant of Tecnosolos, by calling them in some way. The 17 samples of the already applied Tecnosols already exceed the limits allowed in heavy metals and hydrocarbons, so in the inspection records themselves, technicians refer to them as "waste material" instead of using the term "Technosols". In the inspection papers, technicians were able to verify how the dredging sludge from the Noia River were stacked directly on the floor, generating leached to the ground and subsoil, occupying an estimated surface of 2,781 square meters. Furthermore, today, according to information provided by the Galician Board itself, in its inspections, you cannot be sure what kind of waste is found in the different layers of the sink vessel. It is also reflected in the inspection reports that in this dump of non-hazardous industrial waste, a large amount of household waste is entering with a heavy load of dissolved moisture and organic carbon, which will generate a greater amount of gas in the future, which is a source of problems for the population that lives near the landfill. We're talking about houses less than 400 meters from this dump and several villages less than a mile away. The inspectors took three samples that exceed the established limits of dissolved organic carbon, and in the inspection records the presence of sludges and other wastes in the sink vessel could not be deposited in it. The sink-affected platform wants to remind us that the old Miramontes quarry is never and can never be classified as an industrial soil, because the difference between other metal mines, this was and continues to be an arid mine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u253	I'm sorry, president, but I just didn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u254	Yes, finish the first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u255	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Please show up... ah! He's already there. [[Applause]] You have the word to reply to the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u257	With regard to the question Mr Rivas, of course, what I can assure this Member is that the Council of Galicia always complies with and enforces the legality in environmental matters, not only now, with all the inspections, which, as you have well reported, it knows, but also in the processing of many environmental authorisations which, when you sometimes come here, demand from the Council of Galicia that we comply with the law. The situation of Miramontes is no exception, in any way, and at least it is necessary to do and make clear what happens even in that place. The first of all the clarifications we have to make is that I'm convinced that it wasn't intentionally that you were mixing the information from two plants, from two industries that are in that area, specifically from one side the dump of what you were talking about, and from another company that is from Tecnosols. These two companies are two different realities, located in the same field, in the corner of Miramontes, and these two had an individual and independent dialogue with this council, and therefore also this councillor, in the exercise of his powers, acts on each of them. On the one hand, there's this dump of what you were talking about, which you referred to, a private dump of non-hazardous waste, which dates back to 2008, when your integrated environmental authorization was processed. I am absolutely convinced that at that time all the legislation that was in force in 2008 — which I remind you was the Bipartite — has already been fully analysed in order to be able to grant this integrated environmental authorisation, and even, of course, also in the Tecnosols processing plant, property of another company, another private company, where this environmental authorisation has been granted. And here I can assure you that your 2015 environmental authorization, granted by this government, has been evaluated. And I am therefore convinced that both in 2008 and now in 2015 has been made to comply with all the legislation in order to be able to grant that integrated environmental authorisation. From the Council we regularly monitor and monitor these authorizations, we conduct unscheduled controls, especially when there are complaints about the neighborhood. In fact, if you're talking about inspection records, it's because you're doing these checks and because you're doing those visits. In particular, since 2015 there have been 14 inspections of the Tecnosols plant; 9 of them have been in the last year. In each of these inspection visits we have warned of various issues that should be resolved, and even in the dump, of which you were talking especially, 11 inspections have been conducted since 2016, 8 of them in the last year. In these visits, we also indicate to the company improvements that should be introduced. I mean, not only did we comply with the law in the processing of environmental authorizations, but we also monitored, we didn't sneak out and we monitored the control of the authorization.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u259	About the presence of these bad smells of the dump is also claimed to this company that submits a correction of a plan to avoid smells. I'll finish my exhibition later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u260	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor, to reply, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, Mrs. Mato, that's not true. He never had a perimeter fence, never had a perimeter fence, never. I can tell you here a lot of breaches over time, but I can tell you more: in Soprado there is another dump which has been clandestine for four years and which today is filled with 500,000 tons of garbage, and which came from the Coruña, came at night with alleviation and nightlife. I mean, there's no environmental control of landfills, legal and illegal here. [[Applause]] You see, we denounce the precisely premeditated abandonment of environmental health in the hands of carers, and never better said the word "carriers." Because it's done: overpopulation of seagulls and crows, the presence of a large amount of recyclable waste in the glass, i.e. plastics, sofas, mattresses...; in the glass there is poor segregation with enough impropriety. It's just that we don't want to talk about two different plants, different companies. The leaky dump everywhere from a totality that's the dump itself, and it's the dump itself that needs to be monitored, Counsellor. I mean, the health of the people who live on the slopes of that artificial mountain that was illegally made and covered with very green technosols but are full of crap that goes against health. That's what has to be done with strict, periodic control, and surprising, because we're playing with the population's health, Counselor, we're not playing with nonsense. Indeed, the environment is one of the great pending subjects of this government and it is one of the great pending subjects of this country, and the Verdour de Miramontes, located 6 kilometers from Santiago, is a national shame, it is a genuine national shame. [[Applause]] And they get to work, since they've already set themselves up -- because they had no other remedy -- and they get to work with the whole dump, not just with the technosols plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. For the reply, you have the word of the Territorial Environment and Planning Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u263	Look, Your Honor, I, with all due respect, and truly dearly speaking, will not tolerate that you question the work of the Galician Union technicians, when I'm telling you that they're going to visit those two plants on twenty-five occasions -- and I've told you every one of them, and even you have access to that information from each of these inspections -- because you're questioning the knowledge and work of each of the technicians. [[Murmurs.]] Or do you mean here in this Parliament that technicians, when they visit her, don't they look? Or do you mean here in this Parliament that during these eight visits to the dump this past year, the technicians have looked elsewhere? Or what do you mean here in this Parliament? What I do know is that, thanks precisely to these inspections, since this council, two sanctions have been imposed on the Tecnosols company, which today are in the course of allegations, but these are two sanctions because they violate two laws, which are the Waste Law and the Environmental Control Act. In fact, these two sanctions to date are a reality, which are in the period of allegations but which are being processed. And, on the other hand, on the subject of the dump, of what you're talking about, today they're due until April 2nd to present that plan of what you were talking about, to try to fix what you've been doing since the Galician Union — those technicians you're asking — have demanded that the company do in relation to the elimination of smells. Because, in fact, they did a study, at the request of this council, and indeed there are smells that have to be arranged, not only in their own dump, but also in the origin of the waste that goes to that dump. And, therefore, one of two: first, what you can't say is that the Union is not complying with the law. She's doing it. Environmental authorization was granted in 2008 by the Bipartite, Your Honor, by the Bipartite. I mean, it was then — you're convinced — it was also celebrated with the company of Tecnosolos in 2015 and it's being done right now with those visits. It is true that we have responded to the claims of the neighborhood; with the neighbors we have been sitting, twice. We were also sitting with Santiago's mayor, precisely to answer and respond to his anxiety and visit, and not just to visit and not to look. Technicians are going, they're raising records — which you've read — and on those records, depending on whether or not they're not in compliance, it's when the sanctioning proceedings are started, Your Honor. Therefore, the board enforces the law, fulfills the law and of course acts, and of course will be for the neighbors for whatever they need. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-20-DSPG060.u264	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll stop the session until the next day.
