ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Before the session starts, justify the in attendance of Mr Sánchez, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, and Mr López Crespo, the People's Parliamentary Group. We follow the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the attention of the demands of citizenship relating to the consequences of cuts and privatizations of public services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u2	Whenever you want, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, the BNG has been calling on you for months to set up an agenda in favor of Galicia, but you're the only one with an agenda against Galicia and also to run with prepotence and pride. You are dynamizing Galicia and using your majority as a course patent to justify the scheduled flight of public services. But the Greeks and the Greeks are already fed up, as demonstrated by a growing wave of social unrest that is getting bigger and bigger, a social distress that we saw on Sunday on a plethora of demonstrations in defense of public health. His reaction: making deaf ears and speeding up a health counter-reform that will bring more waiting lists, more privatizations and more clippings. Mr. Puy has already explained to us that you do not rule the coup of protesters, you prefer to rule the coup of clandestine meetings with the employer of private health. [[Applause]] A social disorder that we also saw this Monday with new demonstrations in defense of pensions. Your reaction: be upset because Mr. Montoro won't award you because you were the champion of the cuts. And you have to explain why you refused to have more money for public services through the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, than other communities did. It's just that you're the manager of a phenomenon! And now he intends to present himself as a victim. And again, social unrest today with a strike in justice. His reaction: to dynamize the negotiating table with that prepotence that this country is working with. In conclusion, Mr. Feijóo, you have an agenda against Galicia in health, in public services and in justice, which translates into more cuts and privatization and is creating growing social unrest. Leave aside the prepotence and the sovereignty and listen to what are asking him for the Welsh and Welsh in the streets, which are public health, decent pensions and modern and efficient justice. BNG proposes that it open a dialogue to defend public services, a dialogue in which all sectors and all groups of this Parliament are involved, acting as president and seeking solutions. Because it's clear that you've already announced that you've made your decision to leave and that you're just waiting to see if you can open the door that interests you. But there's only two years left of legislation and there's only two options: or you're resigning... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u4	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u5	...or put the batteries to work in the defense of interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u7	...in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u9	Because social unrest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u10	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u11	...is the way the Greeks and the Greeks are telling you on the street that you are part of the problem, when it should be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u12	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u13	And that's why I'm asking you if you're going to listen to the demands of Greek citizenship in defense of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you say my decision is to leave. It gives me the feeling that you confuse your wishes with reality. My decision is to stay. [[Laughter]] My decision is to stay! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But no, Your Honor, don't stay because after losing the election I want to remain a deputy, as happens to you every time there are elections, but stay because the Greeks told me I had to stay, and it's an honor to stay until the last moment, until the last moment. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we've been talking about public services for a long time. You, since you are a Member, say that in Galicia public services are deteriorating, except — yes — when you have managed for four years. There is no doubt that the Greeks have two fundamental data: the first, that we have just passed the biggest economic crisis in our autonomous history and that we had to manage with a puppet of 2,000 million euros that left the Government that you were supporting. The second point, Your Honor, is that public services — despite the crisis, despite the difficulties — are now shielded and are today better than we had in times of economic kindness. But not only do the Greeks want armored services and better than those of previous years, but they want guaranteed services for today and tomorrow. There's our engagement. Are there problems and difficulties? Of course! Nothing will stop us from looking for solutions to every problem. Say what you say, and though you'll never recognize it, because you have a complex of moral superiority, as you have that complex, I don't have any. But the Greeks know perfectly well — say what the BNG says — that today public health is better than in recent years, that public education in Galicia is better than any other year, that today we have more attention in social services than at any time in the history of the Autonomous Community and that justice today has more technological and physical infrastructure than at any time in the Autonomous Community. And besides, we have on the table a salary proposal to improve the salaries of all employees of justice. But, Your Honor, as the important thing is not what I say or what you think, let me just remind you of what the data is. [[Applause]] At the moment of greater economic prosperity — yes, leaving the budget of EUR 2 billion — the 2008 health budget was approved. Today's 2018 budget is higher at 7%, 252 million euros more, than Galicia's best budget year, in 2008. Today the percentage of public health in Galicia budget is 5 points more — 40.7% — than when you ruled. Today there are more professionals in public health than ever before; in 2008 there were 36,506 and today there are 38,050 people working in public health; that is, 1,544 more people. Today there are more family doctors than ever before, 2,601; that is, 7% more than when you ruled. Today in Galicia, Your Honor, there are 37% more surgeons than when you ruled. Today there is a record of scheduled surgical interventions and outpatient surgery; for example, in major outpatient surgery, double -- or double -- you worked with 36,000 major outpatient clinics, and today the professionals are almost over 74,000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u17	Mrs. Pontón, look how you look, and as much as you tell the stories we're used to, it would be good for you to once value the Greek public services. You, who pretends to be a wussy, what do you call a wussy? It's constantly deteriorating the public services of Galicia, and it's up to me not only to defend them, Your Honor, but to put them in value. [[Murmurs.]] And to tell you that, as a German, I feel proud of doctors, nurses, all health personnel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u19	...of all teaching staff and all social services staff. And I'd just like you to clear up a question for me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u20	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u21	At some point — tell me in which year — the public services in Galicia were better than today? Tell me what year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u23	Mr. Feijó, don't change. Above all, don't be upset because the Greeks and the Greeks are telling you in the streets that you are deteriorating public services. Because it's not the BNG who's telling you, too, that it's deteriorating public services, that thousands of people in the streets have been told this Sunday against cuts and privatisations. It's just that you're being told by pensioners in this country, too, that they don't accept their pensions cuts. [[Applause]] And they're also telling you today the officials and the officials in justice with the first indefinite strike in the history of this country. That's your letter of presentation, Mr. Feijóo: pre-power and sovereignty and use your majority as a course patent to justify that scheduled flight that is taking place in public services. Yes, yes, programmed, a scheduled flight. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I understand you don't like the truth, because it's uncomfortable for you, but our role, precisely as citizens' representatives, is to say what they don't like to hear. [[Murmurs.]] And look, Mr. Feijóo, you cut out 700 beds in this country's public health. You have an accumulated cut in health care of more than 1,800 million euros. Tell us how, with more resources, it turns out that primary care has a 15% cut in this year's budgets. And, above all, if public health is at such a wonderful time, how can waiting lists not stop growing? These are the data from Sergas 2014-2017 : the waiting lists, Mr. Feijóo, do not stop growing. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a chart]] You are going to tell him that everything is fine, that nothing has ever been better, but there are thousands of citizens in this country who are waiting for a health care that, of course, does not do it properly to meet their needs, not by the professionals — they are magnificent!— by their cuts, Mr Feijóo, by their cuts, which are dismantling the public health system; why? Well, to favor the private. He never explained to us why he wanted to hide this picture from the Greeks and the Greeks, this picture of his with his private employer. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a photograph]] Tell us, Mr. Feijóo, why he hides his meetings, his schedule with the private employer. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u24	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u25	Look, you have this country in a really worrisome situation, and there's a social disorder that citizens suffer in health, also with cut public services and today with a very serious problem with the strike of justice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And do you know what your problem is, Mr. Feijóo? That, as you think you have, as you have most absolute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u26	Silence, please, silence. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u27	I know the PP gentlemen don't expect because they're going to private, but there's a lot of people waiting for public health today. Of course it is. Of course it is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u28	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, there's Mrs. Ponton in the use of the word. Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u29	If I'm left with Members and Members of the PP, I'll call for my intervention, if possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u30	Yes, yes, I'm trying to keep the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u31	...that this control session should be done normally.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u32	We're dilating a lot over time and we have to make up for it later; therefore, I ask you to let Mrs. Pontón finish; otherwise, this is eternal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u33	I heard Mr. Feijóo without altering myself, though I disagree with him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u34	No, but if they interrupt, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not going to private, I'm going to the public, but I don't have to say that. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, continue. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u35	What we believe is that there is a demand at this moment for citizenship that is demanding it to put an end to the cuts. And there's a demand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u37	...to make you feel like talking to the social sectors concerned about the dismantling of public services. This Sunday SOS Public Health has called for a meeting. Will you find a minute to meet with the defenders of that platform that called thousands of citizens? Yes or no? Today she has an indefinite strike of justice in this country. Will you sit down and negotiate? And negotiating, Mr. Feijóo, is not that the others accept their approach, but that they move back and that we really end up with the deterioration that is taking place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u39	...of the public services of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, you really don't think it's an inconsiderate but about justice, if you think so, I'll talk more to En Marea's spokesman, simply by leaving something to talk about later, given the coincidence of the questions. I'm deeply sorry I can't answer to you, but I'm sure you're very interested in the answer I'm going to give to your partner spokesman. You say what you want here. We're used to these kinds of questions... yes, yes, whatever. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u42	Mr. Losada, be quiet. We're in the control round of the Galician Nationalist Block. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u43	You just gave me an idea, I'll take it later. I was saying, Mrs. Pontón, that we cut -- I've pointed out -- 1,800 million euros in the budget, I don't know how many people in the primary budget, we have the biggest waiting lists in our history -- but, Mrs. Pontón, you're right in the backside, in fact, you didn't say just one truth. Look, it's hard. If we're saying that the biggest budget that Galicia had in the last ten years was in 2008 and we had 3,532 million euros for health, and now there's 3,748, that is, 250 million euros more than at the largest time of the public health budget, what is that, Your Honor? Is that a cut or is it a sum? Or doesn't it even distinguish between adding and staying, Mrs. Pontón? How can you simply say that when the budget is increased, the budget is reduced? [[Applause]] How can you say, Mrs. Pontón, that we are decreasing the equipment, the operating systems, the technology, the technological capabilities of hospitals, when it turns out that we have increased nothing more and nothing less than 37% of the number of surgeons, 37%, in full economic recession, and duplicate the surgical outpatient interventions? Mrs. Pontón, how can you say waiting lists grow when we have the lowest waiting list since there's a historical series published? How can you say this, Your Honor, when we take the health in full economic goodness with an average 70-day waiting list and now it's at 66.7? How can you say that when the urgent pathologies were in 40 days on average and are now in 18 days on average? But, Mrs. Pontón, who is disparaging public services? Why don't we value what we do well and discuss what we need? I am in favour of discussing everything that the BNG considers necessary in health care, but what we cannot accept is that you tell us that today we have more waiting list — because it is not true — that we have less money — because it is not true — that we have fewer surgeons — because it is not true — or that we have less professional — because it is not true. And that's why, Mrs. Pontón, do you think we want to reduce health when what we're doing is increasing hospitals? Do you think we want to reduce the Salnés Hospital when we're doing it is expanding the Salnés Hospital? Do you think we want to do less surgical interventions at the Marine Hospital when we're two multiplying the infrastructure at the Marine Hospital. Why don't you comment with the mayor of Pontevedra that we're doubling the Montecelo Hospital, Pontevedra? Mrs Pontón, how many times have so many lies been told in this House about health? You started saying we were increasing the concerts. The budget for concert, when we arrived at the Government, in public health was 218 million euros; today, 205. In ten years we reduced the start of concerts by 13 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, why do you want to keep fooling people? If you want to talk about health, here's the time, here's the place; let's talk, let's make the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u45	...and let's see what we can do about public health. But look, Mrs. Pontón, there's one of the repeated lies like a mantra in the last five years. You should take a decision from the Dispute Tribunal of Vigo, January 28, where we speak of the title of the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro: "The accredited full public ownership of Sergas over him 100% of the property." [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, but will they never really apologize for this way of doing politics, lying to people, saying something and that it's the opposite? [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u47	I've been working on public health for half my professional life. If you want to talk about public health seriously, here's a good interlocutor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u49	If you want to fool the Greeks, don't count on me. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the evaluation of the results of their policy on labour
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u51	Whenever you want, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u52	Good morning. So let's continue with this opposition control session. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, as with public services, you live in a Galician tale on the question of employment; a happy story in which Mr. Feijóo, with magical powers, ultimately solves all the problems. These stories are of the fantastic genre, but, to be credible, they have to have a foot, a reality. And today reality and its social perception of employment also go the other way. In the latest CIS barometer, which you probably know well, employment or economic problems are a central concern for 90% of citizens, also in Galicia, also in Galicia. People in Galicia have difficulty believing the story of recovery. And you know why? Because employment is working particularly badly in our country. Any citizen could think, paraphrasing Ronald Reagan, that there is no way out of the crisis when his neighbour does not get his job back. It's just that there's no real recovery if what doesn't have employment opportunities is himself. Labour Commissions just published their X-ray on the labour market and concluded that 2017 was not good in terms of employment for Galicia. The labour market is being suffocated, precariousness is the norm — said this union. But the Bilbao-Viscaya Bank Studies Service told us yesterday that in 2017 Galicia was the worst employment community in 2018 and 2019 would be the last in employment according to its forecasts; the worst in the next two years. EPA rightly notes that, during 2017, only 6,200 jobs in Galicia were created, from December 31 to December 31, 2017, which is a gruesome call for attention to the work policy of Junta. And in youth, did your advisor tell you that 5,000 were lost under the age of 35, according to EPA? Something serious is happening in the labour market when we get these results with a 3% economic expansion. Something serious is happening in employment policies when with EUR 350 million we are not able to improve those results. In Agenda 20 for Budget Jobs there were 20,000 net jobs in 2017. Do you consider this objective to be met? Agenda 20 talked about reducing temporality, but according to EPA temporality increased in 2017. Do you consider that you are pursuing goals in this matter as well? Mr. Feijóo, there are 140,000 less busy than in the last quarter of 2008, 140,000. In Spain the pre-crisis base will be recovered in 2020, in Galicia it would take another twenty-three years to the pace of 2017, it would take another twenty-three years. It won't take us that long, I know it won't, but at that rate it would take us twenty-three years, too long. Mr. Reagan had concluded his appointment saying that recovery would be achieved when Carter was the one who had lost his job. Shall we help you win the internal battle of succession to Rajoy so that we can give our citizens employment opportunities in Galicia? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u53	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u54	Very well, Mr. Leicega, I thank you for bringing to the House as an economist accredited to Mr. Ronald Reagan. It is clear, Your Honor, that the Socialist Party is in no doubt in an ideological transit which is never known. But the truth and the truth... You mustn't mind, Your Honor. [[Applause]] You quoted Ronald Reagan and I quote Mr. Leicega quoted Ronald Reagan. [[Laughter]] It's absolutely right. [[Murmurs.]] I am not going to quote the Labour Committees, because the head economist of Labour Committees is a Member in this House; of course, not his group; it will therefore be up to him to make the assessments he considers appropriate on the EPA. [[Laughter]] But the truth and truth, Your Honor, is that I am surprised that you, who are an economist, say that recovery in Galicia is simply a tale of Mr. Feijóo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Bringing an increase in gross domestic product in the last three years is more than 3% is an account; they have nothing to do with workers, they have nothing to do with companies, they have nothing to do with productive tissue. Having the export record of the Greek economy has nothing to do with the competitiveness of our economy or with the improvement of our economy as a whole. Having a historic tourism of more than 5 million, no, that's a tale from Mr. Feijóo. Being currently producing over 400,000 vehicles at the PSA-Peugeot-Citroën-Opel factory in Vigo is also a story by the Industry Advisor. Or having the ship with workload now more than ever in the last ten years, that's because it has no interest at all either. Look, Your Honor, in November you asked me about unemployment and now in January we'll talk about this again. I want to tell you that from the last question until now all the news has been positive. It looks as if you're looking, both at registered unemployment and at social security affiliations, and at the Active Population Survey, in 2017 they all say that employment has grown and that unemployment has dropped for the fourth consecutive year. If you tell me if I'm fully satisfied, I'll say no, but if you tell me if we're on the clear track, four consecutive years of job creation and unemployment, I don't think that we should discuss it. What do you think if, instead of taking a month, we take half a year? It seems more appropriate to you probably. Look, if you take the average since 2013, which is the year when we marked the unemployment and job destruction record, in Galicia from 2013 until now, in 2017, according to Social Security, we have 60,400 new memberships — that is, more — and according to EPA, more than 46,000 new memberships. If we take, Your Honor, unemployment, as unemployment evolves, if we take the unemployment register, in the last four years unemployment has dropped in Galicia almost 82,000 people. And if we take EPA -- which you like -- EPA says unemployment has fallen in Galicia by over 88,000. It's not a minor issue, Your Honor, especially because, when I arrived at the Government, you and your group had left Galicia with an increase in unemployment of 50,000 people over the past year and a decrease in the number of social security contributors to another 50,000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not a minor matter, Your Honor. And if you tell me, what about the year 2018? In 2018, we just got to know the first date of January. For last year, from January to January, from 2017 to 2018, we took 22,700 more members to Social Security. It's a registered unemployment rate of -22,192 unemployed. In other words, in Galicia last year the unemployment rate dropped by 10.5%, three points more than the average of Spain. Your Honor, if you want to talk about the ageing population, I agree with you. If you want to talk about how the population evolves, you know the same thing as me that we've lost more than 16-year-olds up and we've got more 65-year-olds up. But, take what you take, EPA, Social Security and unemployment registered, you can't say that the laborer's effort, the enterprise's effort, the effort in the competitiveness of our economy is a story, Your Honor. It seems the Socialist Party rejoices every time there's bad news and it's worried about the good news.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u56	Your Honor, today Galicia is much better than when the Socialist Party ruled. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u58	Yes, I already realize that the President wants to talk about anything less than what I asked him, that it was the question of employment, as I did in November, and the question of employment measured through EPA, which is how it is measured across Europe. And in EPA it says last year we created 6,200 jobs from 1 January to 1 January, from 31 December to 31 December. That's reality; the rest can be stories. [[Applause]] We need to change employment policies. I don't want to punish his advisor Count by sending him to quarrel with the mayor of Monforte. I would lose it, but it's not that, because it's not a problem of people, it's a problem of structures, priorities and policies, of structures and priorities. [[Laughter]] Because something fails at the Employment Council when it turns out that year after year they are unable to execute the credits that are in line with the budget. The last data we have of September 30 tells us that they were running, on September 30, 2017, one euro out of every four of those who were on the budget, on September 30. Yeah, they're multi-years, but this goes on year after year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in the policies, look, you approved the 2020 Self-Government Strategy; 40 million euros a year, with the intention of creating 10,000 jobs in 2017. Well, according to EPA, self-employment was destroyed in 2017. And you said you'd have to allocate 50 million to employment policies. All right, but it turns out that their claim to increase at least 13,000 jobs, remains at least half, and at least a third in relation to the promised budget. They must review employment policies in their integrity. Of course, there's economic recovery, we're growing more than 3%. That's exactly why it's dramatic that with the growth of the real economy of 3% we can only present these lean figures. That's why I'm asking you, not to change everything, but to change the employment policies that aren't working. And employment is not a priority for you when year after year allows this to happen. Responsibility is no longer in the hands of his counsellor to pass on to him. And he doesn't comply with happy ending stories. It assumes the principle of reality and sets order in employment policies. And if he's not able from within, because he's talking to social agents, to unions, to entrepreneurs, he's using university experts, he's using the Economic and Social Council, he's doing very good reports, he's using them to put order into employment policies, to change policies, and to give all of them hope — especially youth — that they're looking for how to continue doing their work, professional life, in their lives, in our country. If you have to choose between packing them or what you do, Mr. Feijóo, I think our society will eventually be clear on your decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Leicega. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u60	Mr. Leicega, I think you have a proposal for some councillor from the point of view of municipal elections. We can talk about it, but I have no interest in you leading the list to the Socialist Party of Santiago, I tell you with affection... don't you hear me? I say I have no interest in you leading your party list for Santiago. I tell you with affection, because it's interesting the debates you have, above all, Your Honor, because, by taking figures, you never want to take the whole of the figures. Take a line from the figure, but you don't want to take it -- that is, all the unemployment we have registered, when we have less unemployment than in 2008, that's not important; when we have so many memberships of Social Security as in 2011, that's not important; when this year, today, we have a reduction in unemployment of 10.5%, three points more than Spain -- and Spain is the country of the European Union with more unemployment -- that's not important either. It's amazing! It's surprising that an autonomous community lowers unemployment by 10.5% in the past year and that this seems to you to be a wrong policy. But, Mr. Leicega, do you really want to be serious? I do, and I'm interested in a lot of things about what you say, but obviously they're picked up, the data from the EPA indicate that since 2013 you've been unemployed in Galicia 89,000 people — data from the EPA, of those you're talking about. And EPA data since 2013 says that in Galicia employment has been created in 47,000 people. And that doesn't matter to you, because it takes the December data, and the December data raises it to the maximum category. He doesn't care about the averages or the years that have passed; no, the December date. But if we already have the January data, Mr. Leicega! But look, he says I have to change policies. With all interest. indefinite employment: in Galicia, 73%; in Andalusia, 64%; in Extremadura, 64%; in Valencia, 70%, in the Balearic Islands, 70%, and, by the way, in Castile-A Mancha, 72%. In all autonomous communities where PSOE governs, less indefinite employment than in Galicia. By the way, when you supported the government in the Bipartite — a time of economic kindness — the indefinite employment was 69.6%, now 73%. Today we have more indefinite employment than when you ruled. Busy full-day — EPA —: the full-day in Galicia, 86.5% higher than the average in Spain. We are the fourth autonomous community with the highest rate of full-time employees, above Valencia, above Andalucía, above Extremeura. What exactly do you want me to copy of policies, Mr Leicega?, the policies of Extremadura, the policies of Andalusia, the policies of Valencia, the policies of the Bipartite? No, Mr. Leicega, I know we have to keep working on the job. You won't listen to me saying that I'm fully satisfied with the evolution of employment, of course not. Now, you should be a little more careful when you talk about budget executions. Galicia is the autonomous community with more budgets for active employment policies in Spain. First statement. Second statement: The 2017 budget approved is 85% of the total budget. And the committed budget, 87% of the total authorized budget. And do you say we don't run budget, knowing perfectly well that this budget is multi-year because there are programs within companies that run in subsequent years? But I'm giving the 2017 data. With an authorized budget percentage of 85% and a committed budget percentage of 87%, I think it's not a minor issue. So, Mr. Leicega, if you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u62	...you want me to tell you that I am fully satisfied with the evolution of employment in Galicia, my answer is not. Now, with Galicia having an evolution of employment above the average of autonomous communities, the answer is yes. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the views of the Government of Greece on the situation in which public services are located
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u64	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, I'm going to start with a very clear question: how many more sacrifices do we have to make for the Greeks and for the Greeks to pay for your career in Madrid? Ever since you joined the Galician presidency, your only ambition has been Rajoy's succession, his personal sacrifice, his political career, his professional career, and sacrificed everything, all the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks to achieve it. In order to pay for your career in Madrid, the Galicians and the Greeks are more sick, we have the most expensive tolls in the state, we refuse to take the freight trains and the passenger trains, we give up fair funding and we have worse justice. The question is clear: how much more money will it cost us to the Greeks and to the Greeks that you are important in Madrid? Since you've reached the Government of Galicia, the Galicians and the Greeks have worse lives, we have worse quality of life, we have worse health, we have worse justice, we have the most expensive beaches and we've run out of trains; that is, with you as President, the Galicians and the Greeks we've lived worse. Answer: How many waiting lists will cost us your ambition?, how many more emergency collapses? How many closed sanitary areas will it cost us your Madrid turn? Only today will 500 trials be suspended for a strike in justice, for a conflict that you are unable to handle. How much suffering will the victims of crime, the victims who access the judicial system, cause their Madrid ambition and their inability to manage the conflicts of their own country? Is it worth the sacrifice of a whole country for a single person's political career? And the worst of all is not that, the worst of all is that, no matter how much we sacrifice, you suspend again and again in Madrid; you are unable to approve the career that you want to do in Madrid; you cannot. It's true, the test is there one more week: a more fruitless tour to get into the pole position to happen to Rajoy. He's got a tough competitor in De la Serna and he can't get out of it. Home!, of course, we are able to understand it, to empathize with you. To accumulate capital so much, to accumulate a capital that is a savings at the cost of the sacrifices of the Greeks and the Greeks, to accumulate all capital that is incapable of profitable in Madrid, which is useless to you because it does not serve you to put yourself in that career for that succession, to sacrifice the well-being of people, to sacrifice the train, to sacrifice health, justice, to pay the costs, so that no one can listen to it... to the Greeks and the Greeks can't do anything for you anymore, it won't make a career because they don't want it in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u65	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u66	You have a problem in Madrid, and what we want to ask you and what we want to say is that you don't make it pay to the Greeks and to the Greeks with the deterioration of public services, saving in Galicia, cutting off to Galicia for your own career in Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u67	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u68	Mr President, how good it would be if the questions had been clarified since your statement. It turns out that Mr. Villares cares about public services as much as anything. And now it turns out that it gives us lessons from the career in Madrid, from the internal themes of the People's Party in Madrid, and says I haven't known how long to aspire to Madrid. But, Mr. Villares, there is nothing left for you to endure as President of the Union! There's nothing left for you! [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, probably, when you are not a Member, I will remain President of the Union, if the Greeks want, I can assure you. [[Applause]] If you think these Madrid jokes worry me, but if I'm used to it! Since 2003, I've arrived in Galicia, I've been told about Madrid. Thanks to the fact that the Greeks don't take them seriously, I can be president of the Union for twelve years. Not bad, Mr. Villares. I don't know how much you're going to be the spokesman of your group, but it gives me the feeling that twelve years, in no case, Mr. Villares. It is true that you now know much more about the internal policies of the People's Party than about the internal policies of the groups that make up your coalition, because you are simply not invited or even invited to meetings. They don't even count on you, they don't notice, they don't think. I mean, they're doing meetings, that's yes, crowd assembly, 140 people's open assemblies, and they're taking the subjects out unanimously. Look, as I respect the public services in my country, I'll talk, even if you don't ask me. I'm going to tell you about a problem that concerns the government — not you, of course — which is the problem of the strike of justice. I'm worried about you as president of the board; I know you don't, but I do. And not you, probably because you don't want to hear that the biggest investment in justice we've done in the last eight years. You should know, if you haven't forgotten everything. That Ourense, Santiago, Ferrol and Coruña have a new headquarters of their central judges is not a minor issue, it has never been done, and that we are currently building the new headquarters of the central judges in the city of Pontevedra and that we are making the greatest investment in the history of justice in a city of justice in Galicia in the city of Vigo is not a minor issue. I know that doesn't matter to you, because here you come to something else, talking about the internal policies of the PP. But, finally, if there's a conflict in justice, the answer is yes. What do you want? More payouts, more squares and better conditions. Those proposals are normal. We have offered—and you know it perfectly; yesterday, in the question, the vice president made it clear—... union organizations broke the negotiating table that we had because they got up from it. You said it, it's in the session log. Well, in relation to higher salaries, we have on the table a proposal for salaries that puts Galicia above the average of autonomous communities. If there were to be accepted the proposal that the Council of Galicia currently has in front of the trade union organizations, there would be between 10 and 12 autonomous communities where it would be charged less than in Galicia, for example, in Valencia, for example, in Catalonia, and in some of them even in Navarra. That's why you didn't want to talk about justice? Look, Your Honor, the salary increase we are proposing is between EUR 690, EUR 660 and EUR 900 per year, in addition to the increase which, of course, corresponds to the budget laws. We have a commitment to seek an equalization to replace the partners; we have a commitment to stabilising timepieces — from those that lead to the temporary market — through a public job offer; we have a commitment to increase in 43 new reinforcement squares, and 7 of those of psychologists; we have a commitment to make an increase in gender-based violence judges of between EUR 1,200 and 600 plus every year. Maternity enlargement is the largest in Spain, from 16 to 20 weeks, and the paternity permit proposes to extend it from 29 days to 5 weeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u70	Mr. Villares, here's the table, no trap or cardboard. The proposal that is at the top of the table places Galicia on management staff, such as the autonomous community with 10 communities below; that is, with fewer salaries than those proposed in Galicia; in relation to processors, with 11 autonomous communities — in Valencia and Catalonia with fewer salaries than those proposed in Galicia — and in aid, in relief, in relief personnel, Valencia, Navarra, Catalonia, A Rioxa, Aragon, Murcia, Balearics, Castela and León, Castela-A Mancha, Estremadura, Ceuta and Melilla — all of whom I have just said — under the proposal of Galicia. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, shows a table.]] Isn't this union proposal enough? We'll keep talking, but, of course, I'm not going to hide from the Greeks that the proposal places the staff of justice above the average of all the autonomous communities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u72	Mr. President, Mr. Santalices said earlier that today you have justified your absence in this House by two deputies, Mr. López Crespo and Mr. Sánchez García. Right or not? Yes or no? Well, they've justified their absence, and, by justifying their absence, they're not going to suffer any kind of damage to their wages during the day, for not coming. [[Assentment.]] Justice officials on the first day that they can't go to work for an equally justifiable cause that our Members suffer a 50% loss of salary. That's the difference; it's one of the wage claims, one of the claims that the workers of justice want because of temporary incapacity. That was something you've condemned to the whole public sector since 2012, and that's what they want to reverse; something reversed, by the way, in other autonomous communities and that you could have done had you wanted. That salary increase table for 2018, do you know how much it is? Zero euros, zero! Nothing!, and this conflict has already been on the table since 2017; with which, you could have overturned it if they wanted to. In the end, what's going on? In the end, it happens that reality cannot be against its manipulations; reality can be seen on the part of every suffering person: people who suffer cuts in health see; people who suffer waiting lists, people who go to the emergency see; people who today will not be able to be cared for in justice see; people who don't see their demands see; people who in autumn see also how their homes are burned, how everything around them is seen, even though you wanted them not to see it; people who can't catch the train see; people who pay the fees every day see. All these people don't bring their lies. They're manipulations that are lies. You've been wrong about your career in Madrid, that's the problem. He chose the race of submission, which consisted of being meek and receiving instructions. You talk about the instructions and you talk about the internal meetings of the parties. It's that you go to Madrid at the People's Party meetings to receive instructions, uniquely and exclusively, to shut your mouth in autonomic funding, to shut your mouth in infrastructures and to shut your mouth so that people here don't live better. That's his role within the People's Party: saving in Galicia and cutting off in Galicia to make a career in Madrid, and that's what we're no longer willing to stop for a minute longer, because it's causing a lot of loss of well-being, essential services for citizenship. These days is health, or justice, but it's day by day all that makes us live worse since you're president of the Galician Union. That's why we don't want you to go on like this, so we don't want you to continue ruling solely for your own sake. It's not that I have to hold on to you, it's that the Greeks and the Greeks have to hold on to you, and they're fed up with their cuts, they're fed up with their loss of public services, they're fed up with their ambition leading them to worse lives, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u73	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, the dependent public services of the Galician Union, social services, education, health care are infinitely better managed than in the municipalities where you rule. Its alternative is known: never do anything. It's true that you can be mayor without doing anything, but we've been justly elected to rule. You say that in justice for the first days of IT there is a discount, just as in all public employees in Galicia; at all, in all public employees in the Autonomous Community. Are you asking for something different for some and they don't care about others? Is that your proposal? Is that your proposal? Say it, say it, Your Honor. Our proposal is clear: public employees of justice have all our respect and admiration, as well as those of health, education and social services. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You say, Your Honor, that in 2018 we propose zero euros of increase. But do you really not know that in 2018 it would be illegal to make an increase in wages? Do you know, Your Honor, that the Ministry of Central Government has just notified the Autonomous Community of Madrid that the increase in justice by 2018 has no effect? Do you know that the Ministry of the Fairy is notifying the autonomous communities that the law cannot be breached? And you, Your Honor, since your resume, are you proposing me to make an agreement against the law? In a democratic parliament there is one Member who proposes that I break the laws to reach an agreement in a public service. But are you really trying to be serious about these issues? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I just gave you the data and made it available to the President of the House. I just gave the data of the proposal that is on the table of the workers of justice, and the proposal that we have on the table is that the Greeks, men and women who work in justice, in matters of management, have 10 autonomous communities that cover less than them; in relation to processors, 11 autonomous communities that charge less than them, and in relief personnel, 12 autonomous communities that charge less than them. And do you think this isn't about making an equation above what's happening with the comrades of the justice of Valencia, Rioja, Navarra, Catalonia, Aragon, Murcia, Balearics, Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, Estremadura, Ceuta and Melilla...? All these would charge less if the unions accepted the proposal above the table. You think this isn't a proposal? You're telling me about cutbacks of justice, when we're negotiating a salary raise for the staff of justice. Tell me about cutbacks of justice when we have more legal infrastructure than ever. Look, I understand that everything is legitimate, and of course charging more is perfectly legitimate, and I am the first one that I accepted that during the economic crisis the Greek public employees have put a huge, exceptional hand, to match our accounts, no doubt, but you have to say, Your Honor, if we accept the proposal that is on the table of the strike of justice for all the staff of the board of Galicia, that would entail an increase in wages of 600 million euros. Do you seriously propose that the staff expenditure chapter for the Autonomous Community be increased by EUR 600 million? Is that your proposal? Is this your proposal? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, what do you want, solve the problem of justice or burn the problem of justice?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u76	I'll settle it, we're used to negotiating with trade union organizations. Yesterday we reached an agreement with the public job offer in education, the second highest public job offer in all history, as in health and in all public administrations. Mr. Villares, fairness is right, but no hair on people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with point 4... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u78	On the basis of Articles 13 and 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u79	Let me see what they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u80	It has to do with courtesy and parliamentary decoration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u81	Yes, but I'm going to look at them; we're going to look at them. [[Pause.]] And how could these articles have been breached, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u82	Well, I'm sure you, who, in addition, was very attentive to the debates that took place this morning, could hear, as I heard, that the chairman of the Galician board, during the control session, called me a liar. He also said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u83	Mrs. Pontón, that's not... No, no, no, no. Mrs. Pontón, I understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u84	No, allow me, please, that I think this is an important issue, that it has to do with something that I think has relevance. I listened the other day to the president of the board, precisely in an act in which you intervened, saying that it was important...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u85	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u86	...that Parliament was a place where we would debate ideas. Today's president has dedicated himself not only to insulting me, to insulting the thousands of Greeks and Greeks who have protested by the cuts in justice and the cuts in health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u88	...and, really, I think insult and disqualification only portray the lack...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u89	Mrs. Pontón, you understand. Your time is up, Mrs. Pontón. It's not in the use of the word. No, Mrs. Pontón, no, no... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you've finished your shift, it doesn't work. Mrs. Pontón, it's not working. [[Applause]] In the parliamentary debate I did not observe anything in which the president of the board had insulted anyone. Nothing, no... No, forgive me, but no. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] We continue with the agenda item of non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the losses caused in the last campaign by the weather conditions and the bead in the production, processing and marketing of chestnut
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u90	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Rodríguez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u91	Good morning to all and to all. The chestnut sector is a poppy sector in Galicia, after a latent abandonment since the 1980s. Galicia is Spain's main autonomous community in chestnut production and export. In the 2016 campaign, over 20 million kilos were spent, which translate into an estimated generated value that exceeds 100 million euros. It is being found through companies, cooperatives, producers and marketers and transformers the widespread concern throughout Galicia for the last October 2017 campaign. The production of chestnuts in Galicia today is not guaranteed after this disastrous campaign that has declined by about 70%. This reduction was the result of the drought, the frost, the rock and the beetle of the chestnut, something that, since En Marea, we had more than warned for months and, instead, the Middle Rural Council looked elsewhere. We owe it to various causes: the beeve of the chestnut — the weak dog, they are all fleas. Today the chestnut pineapple is spreading at a speed and is causing serious economic damage to chestnut production, but also to the natural heritage of the centenary bumps in our community. The hope of the chestnut sector is set in the biological struggle against the plague, through the release of its Torymus parasite; it lets you, at last, be authorized after the People's Party had passed a bill of yours, in the 7th Commission, coveted one of us that we will present a few months before the People's Party and that it will vote against. Time, in the end, gave us reason. The avespa was detected in Galicia in May 2014, not in 2016, as Mrs. Counselor said, lying. And, according to the projection drawn up in the Galician Union's own publication, from 2015 to today has totally invaded our community. Warnings and warnings were there. The Director General did not meet with the sectors involved, the recommendations of the technicians were not taken into account, since the service there is no serious management plan to get rid of the bugs, there is no specific training or information and they have no serious plan to follow this plague, which unfortunately has already covered the whole of the Greek territory. So far, the Middle Rural Council has had zero concern about the plague of the pineapple and the chestnut sector. The process of hemp infection began to penetrate the cortexes of our chestnuts through these natural or wounded openings. The only measures that have been done so far are insufficient inoculations of beekeepers with hypovirulent strains; and we say insufficient because today the entire Autonomous Community of Galicia is affected by the cane of our beekeepers. What effective measures has the Rural Middle Council done to address the problem of the hemp in our chestnuts? Is the Counsellor aware that the treatment is being erroneously and even counterproductive when recycling the drill that holes the chestnut, thus propagating the disease to trees that are with the least degree of developmental disease or even healthy? We also doubted from the very first moment the line of aid that the Galician Union was drawing to alleviate the damage by drought, by the hails or by the hails; lines of help that ran away from the reality that we are suffering from producers and producers, as well as livestock and farmers. Today, we note that they have applied for aid from drought, for example 1.5 % of the farms in the whole of Galicia. With regard to other aids — such as subsidizing the interest in loans to have liquidity in farms — we see them as totally counterproductive, and we do not see it positive that the Greek peasant families again assume indebtedness. We know that debt is one of the biggest losers in our farms, and even if it's without interest the liquidity of now will not fail to translate itself at the moment in that debt and in the monthly amortization costs for thousands of farms. We must also bear in mind that chestnut complements family economies, so we are not talking only about marketers and processors. That's why Galician Union had to already have a line of help that had reached all levels of the scale of production and sale. But, of course, the People's Party and the current Government of Galician Union all this interests him less. Look, the INE published at the end of December its survey on the structure of the agricultural holdings corresponding to the year 2016, updating the data of the year 2013. That proves what we've been reporting since En Marea last year. The land area in Galicia has been reduced, the number of farms as well. The agrarian surface has fallen from 2007 to today at 14%, 14%. The decline is mainly due to pasture lands, which have decreased by 22% since 2007 until today. It also reduces the total number of agricultural holdings, from the 101,000 we had in 2003 to the 74,000 we currently have. This leads to a decrease in jobs generated also by the German farm, from nearly 121,000 work units from 2003 to 70,000 in 2016; a reduction in employment in our farm by 42%. On Monday, the Autonomous Administration announced the opening of two lines aimed at facilitating subsidized financing for Galician agricultural holdings affected by the drought last year, so that they can speed up or distribute payments in order to strengthen the financial structure of the farms. A lot of headlines for a little help he'll solve. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry announced an amount of EUR 500,000 which will allow for the mobilization of EUR 3.5 million in funding and costs for beneficiaries. This body explained that the program is specific to address the damage to the drought, adding to those that it had opened earlier to deal with those generated by the hail and frost. This proves that those aids that we both denounced were not worth anything, and they finally gave us the reason. With this help, stakeholders will be able to host up to 28 February to the lines that subsidize circulating loans and the refinancing of liabilities. This is still propaganda. Farmers and noodles need direct help, as you've done on other occasions. No one's going to be in debt today to buy forage. What they need is not money, what they need is direct help to the market, to buy these fortresses, and to alleviate those losses of production. You reconsider your vote if it's negative. They pay attention to the chestnut sector, they don't sell smoke while our rural environment rubs. And for all this, what we want to propose to you from En Marea is, in the resolution of the non-law proposal, to maintain a meeting with agricultural organizations, as well as with representatives of the IXP Castaña de Galicia — we are aware that it has already taken place — with producers and producers and with processing and marketing companies, to assess the damage, to set amounts to compensate for and to conduct a real study of the losses produced this year due to the weather, chanchro and bee of the chestnut tree. And because of the exceptional situation in which the sector is located, we ask to enable a line of specific and direct aid to alleviate the enormous losses suffered in the last campaign. They remedy him soon and don't wait for the agony sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u92	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u93	Good morning to all and to all. Since the Galician Nationalist Block, we are going to support this initiative that goes on similar lines of issues that we have been claiming for the last few months. And since the Galician Nationalist Block, we haven't been tired of insisting, even though the People's Party doesn't want to listen, that 2017 was a complicated year for the primary sector, especially in Ourense, which has had an impact on a number of issues that have taken place stronger than in other years; firstly, by the consequences of both the droughts and the frosts, as well as the fires, on the primary sector; and also, in particular, on the chestnut sector, which we are dealing with today. But it is also more than ever that we have seen an absolutely irresponsible government that has devoted itself to the absolute abandonment of both this province and the rest of the country and the primary sector. A lot of rural legislation, but then we saw that it was just headlines and they didn't put it into practice. To the permanent disillusionment that there was with a product that is increasingly valued and more internationally recognized and that in our country too is progressing — and proof of this, for example, is the re-incorporation to the kitchen, both traditional and new cuisine— has now taken a disregard on the part of the Greek Government, first, for an absolute lack of foresight, which can be seen in all matters, for example, in the avian. They've been on the table for more than three years, looking somewhere else. They didn't bet on the investigation, they got late, and now they're trying to comply with a drop that the sector is already saying it's insufficient. The release was also stupid until it was the Group of the People's Party — as Mr Rodríguez said — who defended him in this House. So far there were crazy four crazy guys who proposed this kind of release. As for the frost, they also came late, and their consequences. Even immediately after those ice creams and producers warned that this was going to happen. It was very evident when all the important burnt trees appeared, when there was no budding that flower that was there in April and which was ahead because of a very hot and very dry spring. For at that time they warned everyone and everyone that this was going to happen, that there would be important losses. But again the German Government wanted to look elsewhere. And besides, in Ourense, there are two circumstances: one band, which has impacted that frost more dramatically than elsewhere, especially in the East of Oresan, which is also the area of the country where it is most produced. But in addition, I always insist that Ourense is the only province of the four Galicians in which all its municipalities — and 92 — are within the Protected Geographical Indication of Castaña. And that's for something; that's because it's enough and because in many territories there's production even more and more specialized. Over the months, the circumstances confirmed that we were in the face of an important tragedy. Town Councils like Viana do Bolo, which is the largest producer in the country, certified losses over 80%; in some municipalities they are a little smaller, but always above 70%. Which is a very great difficulty, and which, as I say, did not take it by surprise. Therefore, it must be borne in mind that in these localities it is also a specific complement for many families who are not professionally engaged in this, but who have an important economic benefit that helps to survive when there are losses in other parts of the primary sector or when income from the wage route is not sufficient. And also something that seems important to us is that the drama isn't going to be just for this year. The production times, the development times of a chestnut tree are not those of a vine, they are not the other types of crops and therefore the recovery will be long. That is why we support both the direct assistance they are helping to get out of this crisis situation and the medium and long-term recovery plans. We're going to have to do it if we don't want to stay behind and if we don't want him to go through the chestnut production as it happened with the milk production in Ourense province, which today almost saw a dairy cow in our electoral district is like a endangered species. So we understand that protected geographical indication cannot be a mere headline, a mere mark to assume that we have one more brand, but we have to have a strict stake and a commitment from the Public Administration so that that protected geographical indication does not pass to extinction, so that it can be preserved, so that it will be improved and so that the inconsistency of the time that took place this year in the medium term — that is going to be long — can be recovered and all these municipalities can be free to produce chestnuts and find in that product a way of development. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u95	Good morning, Members, Ladies and gentlemen, guests. If the German Government and the popular bench that supports it were a bit sensitive to the problem of the countryside and the rural world, we would have no doubt that such an initiative would have the backing of all the House groups. We don't believe that the request for an up-to-date study of the impact of the drought and the pineapple on the cane and chestnuts can be denied. In the same way, we have no doubt that we can provide meetings between producers, government and transformers if we can refuse. But I refer to the proven experience with the various initiatives to alleviate the damage in the various rural productions, and we are convinced that the third point, where direct aid is sought for damage, will not have the support and sensitivity of the People's Party. With today, twelve initiatives that we have presented the three opposition groups in the last year on different productions and productive aspects in the rural world that were affected in 2017 by the weather and other factors, and all denied. The natural incidences have been added to the damage caused by wild fauna, in cases of excessive delay in repairing the damage caused by the wolf, and in other cases, as in the boar, by the total absence of repair of damage, despite the fact that in the fall of 2016 they continue to collect and open files for damage of this species, exceeding today the 1,100 files, without any prospect that this order will be opened at least until the election year 2019, and being this best example of how the Administration is used to create false expectations of damaging crops and how to use them as an electoral weapon. But the accident story isn't here. As in the foregoing accounts, the plagues of different origins and incidences are lacking that affect our production. Guatemalan cuzza has in check the important and traditional production of the potato, the plump not only dramatically affects the apiaries, but also their proliferation, in geometric progression, hides with endangering fruits and pollination. These globalizing pests do not save forestry crops, such as pineapples, or fruit trees, such as citrus plants. The plagues and misfortunes on Greek agricultural production are equal to those of Biblical reference, centered on potato production, honey, chestnuts, fruit, wood, cereals, vineyards, etc.; finally, a wide fan affecting the rural productive environment. In no case has the Greek Government approved some of the twelve initiatives submitted by the three opposition groups, with the common denominator calling for direct aid for the productions concerned and for a sector as punished and forgotten as the Italian rural. All of this believes that rural legislation is a media slogan. With the disappearance of the various productions and producers of our lands by the Government of Greece, today's initiative, centered on chestnut producers, comes. The chestnut sauces in general are becoming the foundation of a production that has been referenced to an industry that goes beyond the internal market. In the last campaign, with parameters of some normality, chestnut production exceeded 20 million kilograms and its value was around 40 million euros, affecting four important industries mainly located in Lugo and Ourense and involving about 20,000 people or collectors in the Galician community. So we're not talking about a minor issue. This important production had a strong decline in 2017. First of all, there's the growing threat of the chestnut pineapple; microbike that has shown devastating effects in other countries around us. We have recently seen in this House how the proposal of massive release of the natural competitor was denied by the People's Party, and this is the only weapon to curb a threat as powerful as that of the pineapple. The impact data of this new plague are very eloquent. Today, it affects 70% of our raids and chestnut trees and the past campaign was tested for its presence and impact on 60% of the municipalities in our community. In view of the fact that this circumstance was a little unfortunate for the beekeepers, in 2017 it was necessary to add to it the strong impact of sarabia and drought. If in the spring, with the late sarcasms, it marked a disturbing start of the season, the situation of the chestnut trees, far from straightening out, it definitely twisted into an extreme dry frame which in summer has already made it clear that the harvest would be low not only for the smallest production, but also for the low quality and poor development of the fruit. When in the autumn, the fruit was collected, the worst expectations were confirmed: 50% less production and 50% less worth per kilo of chestnut. Really, if you want to save, if you want to give a hand to the chestnuts, to the bumpers, there will be no more remedy, on the one hand, than increasing the release of Torymus, massive and concerted loose, and on the other hand, giving enough budget for research and to produce Torymus in our community, since the price of this plague is very high, 1 euro by Torymus, and in these parameters it will be difficult to find enough budget. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u96	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u97	...the direct aids, which also go to producers who are on the mountain, on the Ourense mountain, on the Lugo mountain, which are disadvantaged areas, unpopulated areas and who need these direct aids like May water. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u98	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u99	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, first of all, for my voice, but the flu is attacking us all. Today we are talking about an LNP on the chestnut sector, which — of course, the People's Parliamentary Group believes that it is an important sector within our primary sector — is an initiative by En Marea in which all the plagues and meteorological phenomena that have taken place this year are mixed up, ultimately, to end it, by asking for something that is illegal, which is direct aid. Even if we talk about examples, which we can talk about, it's illegal. If you don't sell clothes today because there's no climate conditions for that, we'll also have to buy our clothes and give direct help to the shops. If you don't eat in restaurants today, we'll also have to pay for the plates for direct help. We defend the sector, but we defend the strengthening of the sector so that it can bear these circumstances, and in the meantime, we can do what we can do in the field of legality. The bead of the chestnut. This has already been discussed on several occasions in Commission 7a. All parliamentary groups agree that it is necessary for the Galician Council to take decisive action in the biological struggle against the pineapple. And what do we have to do? The only possibility — if there is any more — to beg the opposition groups to transfer it to study it, and we are all in favour of it — is the release, as Mr Quiroga and Mr Rodríguez of Torymus sinensis, who is his natural predator. Mr. Rodríguez was talking about the late release and the lack of conditions to be able to fight. Look, the bird's presence is communicated to the Mapra in May 2014. In 2015, 1,500 copies of Torymus are released. In 2016, 68,500, with a expenditure of 213,000 euros. In 2017 84,000 females and 49,000 males were released, with almost €300,000. In the struggle — although it was not talked about today — against Castinian cancer was spent in 2017, Mr Rodríguez, EUR 400,000. I mean, almost 700,000 euros to fight the plagues that affect Galicians. That's not being done enough...! In addition, in Commission 7th of 15 December 2017 — certainly Mr Quiroga, it is sometimes missing, and I do not know if it has failed to do so — we approved a PNL on 15 December in which Parliament in Galicia asked the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the only thing that can do, a substantial increase in the experimental releases of Torymus sinensis towards 2018, and in addition to the liberalisation of the releases and the production of Torymus. This is already approved; you voted in favour. Of course, we want to liberalize all groups. By the way, this PNL was the People's Party's proposal. They also talk about questioning the lines of aid that the Galician Union is drawing to alleviate the damage by drought, hail or drought. Mr. Rodríguez, I'm telling you again, we are doing a serious, rigorous and constant job, we are doing the job thinking of producers, traders and processors, within the legal possibilities and within the scope of our competences. Look, here we can't make direct aid, but we can make financial support aid, support for investments to alleviate the damage to the drought, we can also act in the best of the taxation of the sector or support decisively; and in this we should be all parliamentary groups agreeing and working, providing information to our farmers, for greater recruitment of agricultural insurance, as indeed the Council is doing, with talks, especially in the area of wine growers, but which can also be done in the field of chestnuts and is done in the field of chestnuts. I'm just talking about improving producer taxation. Look, already in January 2018 we're asking for a reduction in the IRPF modules of these producers that will take effect in 2018 itself. The whole chestnut grower sector is picked up. Help on financing. On October 6, 2017, a line of funding aid was published that brings the interest to zero. It's true that there might be a lot of people who don't give up, it's true that maybe they don't get to the brown growers. They make their proposals on how we can adapt these measures. We're working to get these lines closer to the producers, if necessary. As for drought damage, funding lines were also approved and, as I said before, orders to ensure water supply to agricultural holdings. We have arrived here at a budget allocation of one million euros in this area. In the Agricultural Insurance Plan I remind you that the Union allocates EUR 4.7 million each year to support agricultural insurance premiums. If they're not hired anymore, maybe it's because of lack of information, and we have to get there and we're working. At the same time, the Council is also working with Agrisecure to make the coverage wider in the chestnut sector. Finally, we are taking the initiatives which, within the legality, we can use to bring the sector forward. And I'm done now, ladies and gentlemen, telling you what I often say in committee too: that we need the agricultural sector to strengthen its structure as a mechanism to enable it to fight against these adverse climate phenomena. We need a more professional agricultural sector, so that farms can have a profitability that will enable them to secure their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u100	Thank you, Mr. González. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u101	Thank you, President. Different organizations claim aid for chestnut producers. A total disincentive for these organizations is the decision of the Rural Environment Council to inject 166,000 euros into the Rios Agriforest Development Centre, a failed project that is now full of forests. The chestnut lives critical moments. The production of chestnuts in Galicia in the short and medium term is not guaranteed, nor is compliance with the international commitments of the industries following the last campaign's experience, which dropped by 69% as a result of the drought, the May frosts and the bird attacks. The president of the IXP of Galicia, Jesus Quintá, will be interviewed with the Rural Media Adviser to describe the needs of the sector, among which is, among which you warn, the fall in production, which has an impact on producers and producers. For the most part, income from this product complements the family economies, which today are dwindled. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the aids of drought. They have reached 1.5 % of the total holdings of the whole of Galicia. If that's for you to help the sector, I don't know what has to happen! Here's what happens with the subject of the young lady, that there are 21,000 Vespa children in Galicia: "The Council of Galicia is doing what it can." Losses of farms: we lost 15,000 in ten years, it's not the fault of the Galician Union. The potato elbow: "so far we've done what we can, we've got 33 municipalities affected." The drought: "We can't do anything." Ice cream: "We can't do anything." The sarabias: "It's not our fault." The fire: "it's an incendiary plot"; which, of course, we have to give a very bad news: yesterday the fires started in Galicia. He didn't go out in any way because it wasn't published on the Middle Rural Council website because they had less than 2 hectares, but yesterday it burned down in Ribeiro's 12th district and yesterday it burned down in the 13th district of Valdeorras-Trips. What did he do to Junta? Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And isn't it a fire? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u102	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u103	Yeah, and it's not fire? Yesterday there was... Mr Pazos is right. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, Mr. Paz is right. Corrigendum, yesterday there were two cones that could have been fires. The cone, when it goes from acres to acres, is set on fire. What did he do to Junta? Of the 30 measures that I was going to apply, magic, what measures have you already applied so that tomorrow doesn't have... Has any of these measures started to be implemented? So yesterday we had the first two fires. Look, you can close the chiring and go home. We rarely had such unoperational and ineffective counseling. They're working to dismantle the Middle Rural Council, and that's why they don't do anything. And, Mr. González, the legality, when you want it, is good for them to skip it, because in the Town Hall of Sober we saw what happened with the direct aid that they gave to the loss of production. So, if the accused party now -- sorry -- the party that has members charged in every corner, they don't want to give direct help because it's illegal and they just gave one exactly three years ago during the electoral period... I don't know, but this seems pretty serious to me. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u104	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the realization of possible changes in the public network of educational centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u105	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u106	All right, good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. And doublely because of the flexibility to admit the withdrawal of the request for this non-legislative proposal based on the news of the day, which are the weather conditions and the difficulties in circulating on the roads of the autonomous community. We put forward this non-law proposal because during the Christmas period, as a kind of gift, I received powerfully a question from the People's Party itself, which registered on December 27, in which, on the basis of the end of the enrolment forecasts of educational centres in the autonomous community, this parliamentary group asked him for an assessment of this registration review and any possible amendments or changes that would be necessary. And it is true that the Education Council, through the educational inspection services, carries out each course such monitoring of enrolment data in all schools and in all schools, but it is no less certain that these data also serve — as is logical, on the other hand — to carry out a forecast of changes that will be necessary to introduce on the basis of the forecasts of units of each educational center and at each stage. And proof of this — and they are simply cited as a reminder — are a number of orders published annually by the College of Education and Universitary Orders to fundamentally match the units in child and primary education in all centres of this autonomous community. What does that change mean, in most cases, of course, necessary, because of adapting the units to the actual number of students there? For it means that the teachers' catalogues of these teachings undergo changes, every year, it is constant, and these changes affect people and affect teachers, who see how their destinations are suppressed and in addition see how their destinations are suppressed during the months of July and August, with little time or in any case to make the necessary changes in their own centers and also logically, in the ordinary life of those teachers and teachers. So a part of our non-law proposal is going to be geared towards that once it's true that the University Councillory for Culture, Education and Ordination has all the data, it's no less certain that it's also possible to make the changes in sufficient time so that those affected centers and teachers can get to know them in sufficient advance. So I insist, therefore, that that publication of these annual orders be brought forward. But we also logically ask that the Education Council explain what criteria it will use to modify that network of centres to carry out that analysis and publication of the corresponding order. And all this, because, as it is a historical constant, it is no less true that we were surprised at the end of the past course by an extraordinary sensitivity on the part of the directors of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, every time, to not alter pupils, their families and teachers in the last days of the course — days of themselves, already stressful — it decided that it would not make public the change we all know and that it affected four municipalities of this autonomous community — more seriously than others, but in any case it affected us all. In order to pacify and not unnecessarily alter these school communities, the Education Council decided not to make that change public until the last days of the 2016-2017 course. We all remember that situation that happened last July. So what we are asking is that the Education Council explains what criteria will be used to make the changes that are considered relevant in the network of centres, which explain them in this Parliament, which debates them in this Parliament and that we reach a consensus. We also ask, as has been a traditional one, for positive discrimination against the centers of the most rural borders affected, therefore, for a significant reduction in pupils, but once again we say that this loss of services, in this case of the education service, is a further trap so that these areas, these rural contours, do not lose any more population. And finally, Members and Members of this House will also remember the curious semantic discussion that took place about whether or not the centres were no longer functioning, whether they were removed, whether they were segregated, whether they were transformed, whether they were moving lessons, etc., of the four or five forms provided for in the reorganisation decree, ultimately, of centres and teachings. And so what we've also been asking for in this non-law proposal is that any changes that the Council might be thinking of introducing as a result of a disintegration, a decoupling, a transformation, an integration or a change of teaching — all these names have the different possibilities that can be put into operation — are consistent with educational communities. We have already said in this House, at the end of the past course, that educational communities are, in principle, able to understand the changes that can be made, beyond localisms and defences, to the greatness of the maintenance of certain offers, and even to assume, if they are explained in time and with comparative data, that certain decisions have to be made. And, therefore, what we also ask is that this explanation which should be given in this Parliament should also be given to educational communities, which are also consensual, as far as possible, to any transformation of lessons that must be carried out and done over time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u108	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. We have already made progress by the BNG Parliamentary Group that we will support this initiative. It is a subject which has already been discussed in Commission 4a. It seems to us to have come true, and we also agree with the resolution part for different reasons; I'll focus on two basically. The first, Mr Álvarez said in his speech, we believe from the BNG that it is absolutely unacceptable that what we have been living for the past course end may happen again, the year 2017, in which teaching centres were closed — in the case of CEIP Emilio Navasqués — and the ESO was removed in others, and it was premeditated, it was done with alleviation, it was done with nocturnalness and, of course, with no previous kind of dialogue with the educational community, neither with the families, nor with the professor who was going to be or be touched by that decision and, of course, not with any kind of dialogue or advance notice to this House, despite, as they will remember, that the counselor the day before, if I do not remember badly, would appear in this Parliament. We understand that any kind of change in the Map of Centres — as we have defended it on other occasions — must be preceded by dialogue, debate, especially in a reality like the one we have in our demographic and population country that requires the adoption of exceptional measures, we understand. And with this, I'm dealing with the second reason why from the BNG we believe this initiative very well, and why we agree, I say, with the resolution part of it. There is a point — Mr Álvarez also explained — which is called upon or called upon to adopt criteria of positive discrimination for the maintenance of educational centres in rural areas and districts. This is a question we have debated on many occasions, which, in addition, calls for dialogue to the Council and the Greek Network of Rural Education and Development. On no occasion have they urged a meeting, which, as far as I am concerned, has not yet taken place, in which it is also called for exceptional measures to be taken for the maintenance of these educational centres in the communities, in the rural districts, and above all in the mountains of our country, because any policy that since the Government is going to be put into action to fix the population and to alleviate the consequences of the rural depopulation that we have been suffering in our country for decades must also pass through the maintenance and reinforcement of public services, including education, as a fundamental service and a basic right so that we can develop a professional life and a staff in our country's localities and districts that today we have been experiencing, I say, immersed in a very serious depopulation process. I brought a specific example, which was also going out in the media in recent weeks, which refers to Narón's clustered rural center and which has to do with the most likely closure of the unitary school, one of the unitary schools that is part of that crack, which is Pedroso's unitary school, because for the coming year, for the 2018-2019 course, it would not meet the minimum amount imposed by the Counsellor for the maintenance of that unitary school, but in the following year, in 2019-2020, a nine-child registration is planned. What is required of these families — which goes on the line of what is claimed, precisely on this initiative — is that the measures necessary to ensure maintenance, the opening of that unitary school, during the year in which it will not have enough registration to keep that service alive and thus prevent families from going to other localities or other districts. We believe that exceptional measures are needed in view of situations that are exceptional, such as those that live in demographic terms in most of our country, particularly in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. We are very interested in the initiative proposed by the Socialist Party, and we are going to support it. And we insist that there can be no decision on the map of centres, that no change can be made, as we have lived last year, without any kind of dialogue, I insist, with premeditation, with alleviation, with absolute darkness, with absolute nocturnality, knowing, as it has been explained before, not only of the laboral but also of the social consequences that carry the center closures or their modification to take them to other areas. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u110	Thank you, President. Good morning. First of all, I want to say that since the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we are going to support this non-law proposal, and we are going to support it because it coincides with many of the demands already made by our own group and because it affects, precisely, one of the fundamental issues, when we talk about the right to education: the closing of public classes and centres; that crack that increases year by year with the systematic application of the privatisation process of the People's Party. We are also interested in the fact that this non-law proposal is directed at the eloquent silences of the People's Party, the lack of dialogue, the constant contempt of the educational community. As I've said on other occasions, it's amazing the ability of the People's Party not to talk about what it's planning to do. They talk so much more about their silence than their words, and of course they speak so much more about the facts that have always been done for minorities than about the good intentions that are expressed in official documents. As already mentioned in the question that the People's Party registered on 27 December, it speaks of the revision that was made in schools of public ownership; that review which, as we have seen, was intended to reorganize the units within the centres themselves, either to create new units or to suppress them. Interestingly, at no time has it been mentioned that reorganization can affect the already reduced number of teaching posts. If it was an isolated lapse, we could attribute it to an innocent mistake, of no importance, but, as we have been checking too long, the silences of the People's Party respond to a well thought-out strategy; also their euphemisms: review, reorganization, reorganization. All these different words that cover a single concept, that of the clippings. The People's Party in this way is the biggest exponent of the neo-language that we have in Galician politics: we call things anyway to see if we confuse someone. Again, what the People's Party doesn't say in its words, communicates it with silence; it's not distrust; it's experience. As was said here too, we have too much present even what happened at the end of the past course and at the beginning of the present. Again, the loss of units and teaching positions in public school, while reinforcing the schools agreed, even those who maintain that macho practice of segregating the student by sex, with their approval and with their support. None of this is the fruit of a mistake or a torpedoes, of course it isn't! It is the strict application of the reactionary ideology of the People's Party in the field of education. We therefore fear that once again the People's Party will take advantage of the revision, reorganization or reorganisation, or whatever they might call it, to further deepen the dismantling of public school and, in particular, of the centres in rural Galicia. The People's Party has spoken out in this legislation saying it's rural, but all its policies seem directed precisely the opposite. To defend rural is to defend access to quality public services throughout the territory, including, of course, access to a decent education. I hope someday the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party will be able to explain to us how they will guarantee access to rural education if they keep closing all schools. We'd like you to answer this question and many others, but we don't get any illusions. We know that dialogue is not the strength of the People's Party. As I said, his strength is the eloquent silences. They understand, however, that we have an obligation to insist. It would be good if the People's Party had begun to speak clearly — especially with the educational community. And he's got to do it taking his interlocutors seriously. What happened last year was an intolerable strategy. Now I would like to ask: do you think that communicating to educational institutions their immediate closure one day before the end of the school course was respectful of the teaching community? Are you really going to insist that it was the only thing you could do not generate an unnecessary alarm, how did you hear it here? Do you think you can repeat last-minute calls, such as those you received last year at the bridge schools, in Outes or at the Lemos ICC Tomas to communicate to you changes, closures, extinctions, reorganizations or whatever? We think that this cannot be repeated again, so we need to change the educational policy that the Galician Union has been adopting in recent years. That is why, as I said, from En Marea we will support the Socialist Party's proposal, because it tries to change and clarify the strategy, it tries to put the patches so that such things do not repeat themselves. It would ultimately be useful to avoid the educational chaos that the People's Party caused just a few months ago. It would ultimately be useful to be able to agree with the entire educational community the way we have to organize our centres. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u112	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. When I was reviewing the initiative brought by the Socialist Group today to the House, I was wondering what the motivation for bringing this initiative would be right now. And I thought for a moment that maybe it would bring back to debate what happened at the end of last year's course. But then I stopped a moment to reflect and said: I don't think, because, if we are going to the reality of each of these centers last year, indeed, we have to conclude that this problem that we wanted to pose as such was not there, because reality today in the centers affected last year is absolutely normal and in those educational communities, which I know, there is no problem with the decision that the Council of Galicia made at that time. So I said, well, let's see, let's keep thinking about what the motivation is to bring this initiative. [[Applause]] And I said, well, perhaps what happens is that in this case the Socialist Party believes in what it is putting on this role and has a model, which has already applied when it ruled, to speak consensually, communicate with consensus to the educational community and in sufficient time to make decisions about reorganization or closing centres. So there'll probably be evidence in the past to determine or prove that that's the interest or that's the policy that the Socialist Party wants to make, and what it does and applies when it governs. So, well, here comes a series of decrees, all of the People's Party governments, decrees published in July, in which we speak of the reorganization of centers. And I said, I'll look back and see if there's any other decrees. And, man, I went to look and I found the Order of July 6, 2007, and it was signed by Laura Sánchez Piñón. Then I also found the Order of June 18, 2008, published on July 4, 2008. Do you know that between the order of July 6, 2007 and the order of June 18, 2008, that party and that government, who now wants to defend that there is a need to communicate things in advance to the educational community, if you have charged nothing more and nothing less than 43 educational centers in the autonomous community? 43 educational centres!, 25 centres in order of 2007 and 18 centers in order of 2008. [[Protests.]] That's the model of those who bring this initiative here today. [[Applause]] The truth is, I say, is at least curious, because in the end I think we all have to be consistent with what we ask and consistent with what we propose. You ask that Parliamentary headquarters be explained which criteria will be used for decision-making. Of course, those criteria have been explained on more than one occasion, the last in the counsellor's appearance at the end of the past course, when he told them that among the competences of the Educational Administration, among others, he was managing the system and moving forward in education quality in Galicia. And, precisely, with regard to the management of the education system, you know perfectly well that it corresponds to the Counsellor's planning, regulation and administration of regulated education throughout its scope, levels, degrees, modalities and specialties. So, year by year, as the advisor said in his presence, the Council has to organize the activity of educational centres, taking into account pedagogical, demographic, geographic and resource management criteria. I think the criteria are perfectly determined. But you also talk about rural education. Galicia has a demographic reality that cannot be ignored, of course, and a responsible administration has to guarantee basic services where there are people to receive those basic services. We have to adjust the supply of services to the citizens' real demands. But besides, we have to do it by eliminating arbitraryness. And why do I say this about eliminating arbitrariness? I had Mrs. Rodil set an example, a specific case of a CRA in Narón, which probably doesn't meet the registration rates this year. And, of course, there is a clear criterion, you know it: with six students it remains open; with five it closes the center. You're telling me that in the following year there would be nine children willing, or willing to register, in that center. And do you know that your government was closing nine unitary schools? Well, in that particular case, not even with nine, they could continue to study in that center. So what we have to do is have clear criteria, precisely, to eliminate arbitrariness. On the other hand, and in order to go to all the points they mentioned, they asked to advance the release of the commands with the necessary changes. I told you before, you did the orders exactly at the same time. Why? Did you want to bother the educational community? Well, look, I'm going to assume that no, I'm going to assume that, according to the technical criteria, those who emerge from the technicians of the Council itself, who determine the decisions to be made, you were what they were doing to follow those criteria...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u114	...—now finished, President—and implement the decisions and make them when they were to be made. So you know perfectly well that the deadlines in the education system and administration are what they are. Finally, you ask for a consensus. Consensus and dialogue, of course, always; but a responsible government — and they know perfectly well — has to make decisions and choose the moments that you think are most appropriate for general interest and citizenship. A responsible government has to communicate decisions when facts can be realized, not before. So, of course, we are not going to support his initiative. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez, Mrs. Chao, thank you for the support of your groups for this initiative, aimed, once again, at suffocating against the harsh reality, always objective, always loaded with reason and always impeccable from the People's Party. Mr. Fernández Gil, I thank you very much for the administrative archaeology effort you made by diving in the Official Gazettes of Galicia of the Bipartisan Government. I suppose that within your parliamentary group there are several libraries solely intended to provide its weak arguments using what was going on during the period 2005 to 2007. How could you come here saying that 43 centers have been closed? Did you tell how many of these centers were unit schools that didn't have any students? Or is it the same thing to close a whole school, as you did... "Oh, I'm sorry, they didn't close it, they moved the teachings--to close a unit in which there are no students?" Is that what a serious spokesman of education might argue, as I think you are, to come here and try to delegitate this non-law proposition? Do you want us to look forward to seeing how many of those centers you said were unit schools, or do you already have the list, and can you give me the data when this intervention is over? Did you also talk about... Sorry? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Oh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You said all those centers had been closed, you talked about changes in the center network. [[Laughter]] I remember perfectly those demonstrations mounted by mayors of the People's Party in 2007, when they decided to transfer the teachings of high school, of the first cycle, which were transitionally to divines — i.e. forever — in schools. And it turns out, in September of that same year, things worked normally, and therefore mutatis mutandis, the argument you just used to say that there was no such problem in the four municipalities where lessons were deleted is identically valid for pifostium — with forgiveness — which you mounted in 2007 after making certain changes that were necessary. It's the same argument, Mr. Fernández Gil. But look, you're still imbued with that almost divine reason of origin that characterizes them, not making the matter of education a matter of country. As they are told here, they continue to say that this is the legislation of rural areas, and when it comes to 2020 we will see how many non-unitary schools have closed because they do not have the forecast, as Mrs Rodil told you, to analyze their birth and see if those schools or centres will at any time recover the minimum number of students. You shut them down and then they say they supported the rural beyond what was reasonable. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and six other Members, on the penalty for permanent reversible imprisonment introduced in the Spanish legal system by Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u118	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal, and to formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a warm memory for all the victims of atrocious crimes that inspire this initiative, and by transferring our solidarity and affection to their families, who, with the loss of their loved ones, suffer permanent condemnation: the pain of their absence. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has been obliged to bring this initiative in order to defend the maintenance of reversible permanent prison in the current Criminal Code, a debate which was closed in 2015 when it was adopted by the majority of the People's Party, its inclusion in the Criminal Code. But there was someone who wanted to open this debate, and it wasn't the People's Party. Four months ago, the Basque Nationalist Party, with the collaboration of the PSOE, Podemos, En Marea and Ciudadanos, facilitated with its vote the start of proceedings for the derogating of the revisable permanent prison, in the debate that took place in Congress of Deputies on 4 October; a debate, ladies and gentlemen, which is on the street, which led to the mobilization of families broken by the loss of their children and children by unscrupulous murderers. I refer to the initiative to prevent the derogating of the reversible permanent prison that has set in motion on change.org the Galician Rocío Vieites, the mother of Candela and Amaia, aged 9 and 4, cruelly murdered by her father, who is already known as "the monster of Moraña", and who was the first to be sentenced to reversible permanent prison in Spain. It was an initiative that families were joined, of sadly known names, by sharing the worst of the misfortunes: Diana Quer's family, who spent more than five days of unimaginable suffering from the disappearance of their daughter, and with the worst of the outcome; Mari Luz Cortés' family, murdered five years in 2008 by a man convicted of abusing his own daughter and who at the time of murder of Mari Luz enjoyed a prison permit; Marta del Castillo's family, whose murderers refuse to reveal where his daughter's corpse is; and Ruth, the mother of the little murderers by her father, José Breton. More than two million signatures have been reached on this initiative. And together with the polls, which say that 8 out of 10 Spaniards are in favour of keeping the permanent prison resuscitable, should lead to a reflection, ladies and gentlemen, to politicians on what citizenship wants, which yesterday told us some voices and voices of the opposition, that we were asked by the People's Party to hear the street. Today I ask the members of the opposition who listen to citizenship, who listen to society, who listen to those 8 out of 10 Spanish citizens — who are not all voters of the People's Party, who also have voters of the Socialist Party, there are voters of the BNG, there are voters of Podemos and En Marea, of all political colors — who are asking for this penalty to be maintained. On the other hand, in the People's Party we support maintaining this figure in the Criminal Code, which is included in the legal order of other countries of Europe for alleged special seriousness. In fact, when it was approved in Spain in 2015, there were only two countries in the European Union that did not contemplate it in their legislation, which we were Spain and Portugal. Revisable permanent prison is neither a prison nor a perpetual prison, it's a revisable penalty. Whether it is constitutional or not you will have to say so by the Constitutional Court, and not by any political party nor by the Basque Nationalist Party, which is the first to initiate this debate. Party, by the way, very sensitive to the victims of terrorism. Meanwhile, we know that the introduction of this sentence into the penal code has had all the favourable reports; it is not inhumane or prohibited by international law, it has all the countries of the European Union. Nor is it political opportunism, we've been talking about it for ten years. It didn't come to the heat of recent crimes or of timely cases, it's a circumstance that Spanish society wants. Four months ago, the debate began more virulently, on the initiative of the PNV for its derogation, and, in the defence of its position in the Congress of Deputies, they said: "In the initiative that we are presenting, if he intends to make clear that he feels political in this House as regards the reversible permanent prison sentence." I forgot Mr. Legarda Uriahte that one thing is the political feeling of a few and a very different one is the majority feeling of citizenship. We're facing a demand from society for criminal law to respond to some extremely horrendous facts. He also said Mr. Leggarda that this grief does not imply greater security quotas or greater citizen confidence, or that it is the right means for that. Well, in view of the recent events in our country, I have to say that this demonstration is absolutely false. Ask the neighbors and neighbors of the "stylist rapist" if they were safer when this gentleman came out of jail. They would feel safer now, that he returned to prison after committing another crime of sexual assault, which adds to the 56 rapes and an attempted murder, so that he was sentenced to 73 years in prison in the 1980s, as well as the rest of the criminals who were released from prison for the application of doctrine Parot and that not one of them is at liberty after he again commits crimes. I'm talking about the rapist of the elevator, the rapist of the portal, or Antonio García Carbonell, with 73, 1,721 and 250 years of imprisonment; or those who committed sexual assaults again nothing more out of prison, released only because they served a time of conviction without any guarantee of being rehabilitated. These new crimes could have been avoided, and for that reason this condemnation is to prevent the recurrence of this kind of crime when the offender is not in a position to re-enter society. Our duty as politicians and citizens' representatives is to respond to these atrocities and legislate crimes in order to provide judges with legal remedies that guarantee justice and security for the whole of society, which unfortunately is not free from disappearances, killings, rapes or recidivism as an aggravating factor in all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not confuse people. The reversible permanent prison is neither a prison nor a life sentence nor a general penalty of application — no matter how funny it may be to some — nor unconstitutional. And if it were, who has to say it is the Constitutional Court, not a political party or a representative of a political party, for a lot of legal training he has. It is a pity that it is included in a number of democratic legal systems and that it is even endorsed by the European Court of Human Rights, precisely because of this resuscitable character, and with a very clear objective: to prevent the presence in society of people who are not adapted to stop committing these particularly atrocious crimes and that these people are introduced into society without being properly rehabilitated. So it's a shame that it's intended to ensure the rehabilitation of individuals who commit particularly horrible crimes. It is a penalty limited to very few crimes — in Spain, eight — different from other countries that have approved it — by the way, with socialist governments, so we are not talking about an ideological issue. In France it was approved in 1994 by François Mitterrand — I believe he had no suspicion of being right-wing — and for more than 20 cases, in particular, for 26 types of crime; or in Germany, for 20. It's a penalty given to the crime to which it applies. It's a verifiable pity for itself. Throughout the fulfilment of that sentence, if the offender's evolution is positive, you can review and apply it differently. It is a pity that it is oriented towards the social integration of offenders, as established in our Constitution, seeking the resocialization and reintegration of the person who committed a crime. It is a shame created to protect citizens, protect them from people who have committed very serious crimes and who have to prove that they are rehabilitated in order to live in society. In Europe they were left-handed who created the reversible permanent prison, has all the goods in Europe. It's not punitive populism, it's not an ideological issue, it's a pity for international institutions, as I said. The International Court includes this as a possibility, the European Court of Human Rights lays down conditions for it: that it may be reviewed. And in Spain it's resuscitable. It was adopted in Spain with the favourable report of all the bodies, the General Council of the Judiciary — by the way, with a report on which Mrs Margarita Robles was rapporteur — I do not know whether they are alone — the Tax Council, the Council of State, and with the legal doctrine and all the reports that had to be made. The polls say 80 percent of the citizen's population is on the move, 80 percent of the voters of the Socialist Party and the Citizens' Party, too. Citizens are rectifying and the Socialist Party — so have we seen these days — too. In particular, in Vigo — where his secretary-general is a Member of this House — they abstained from a motion exactly the same as we are here today. So I hope, so that this gentleman can go to sleep today to Vigo, that the Socialist Party, at least, if he abstains, if he doesn't want to vote in favour. I suppose, I want to think, that the Socialist Party is rectifying. The citizenship set in Spain wants to have a restricted institution, a limited institution, like the resizable permanent prison. I'm done, ladies. It is a demand of society that we will continue to defend from the People's Party. We will continue to defend the safety of our daughters, the safety of our mothers, the safety of our schoolmates, the safety of children vulnerable to sexual predators, the security of anyone who may be exposed to a criminal of atrocities that is not rehabilitated to live in society. I suppose you'll have the same sensitivity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u121	Well, good day again. Since the BNG we are not going to support this non-legislative proposal that is presenting and defending today the People's Party, as we have not supported the introduction of a resizable permanent prison in the Spanish Criminal Code in 2015. It was a political and social debate that was not closed at that time, but it was opened not only in the academy, but also — as the very spokesperson of the People's Party remembered — because there is a resource of unconstitutionality put in place and I still haven't resolved three years later. This refers, among other matters, to the possibility that this resizable permanent prison would be a violation of Article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution, in which it was said that the sentences deprived of liberty and security measures would be directed towards social rehabilitation and reintegration. That would have determined the Constitutional Court. Since the BNG we understand and share absolutely the suffering and the pain of many victims families — some of them spoke of serious crimes by Mrs Prado. We reject, on the contrary, the instrumentalization that the People's Party is making of a state of mind marked and enormously conditioned by these crimes, with political behaviour as an example of punitive populism or criminal populism rejected by the General Council of Law, by professors and professors of criminal law, by representatives of Spanish penitentiary, Judges and Judges by Democracy, the Progressive Tax Union and various NGOs, in addition to all political forces, with the exception of the People's Party and the white mark of the PP in Navarra, UPN, who have also recently adopted it — also reminded Mrs Prado — an initiative for its derogation. [[Applause]] In front of his initiative and his speech — which in addition to this weekend in Córdoba they have updated — since the BNG we believe it is necessary to point out different issues which Mrs Prado and the People's Party have decided not to talk about. The Spanish State is one of the most secure territories not only of the European Union but of the world, it is at a rate of crime substantially below the European average — 43.2 crimes per 1,000 inhabitants — and at rates of crime of the lowest in the world, with 0.6 murders and murders per 100,000 inhabitants — almost 300 in the last year registered. We are not the least important to each of these cases, but we have put on the table these official figures extracted from the registers of the Ministry of the Interior because, despite being the Spanish State one of the safest territories and with the lowest rate of crime, it has one of the most harsh criminal systems in the European Union, with the highest prison population, with a rate of occupation of the 136% - second Eurostat - and with more average prison time than the countries around it. In fact, the Spanish criminal order imposes, since before the introduction of the resizable permanent prison, penalties for deprivation of liberty from the most prolonged of its surroundings, and may, in certain cases, reach forty years. To find something like this, we have to go to African criminal systems, Latin American systems, or Texas. Since the BNG we will not support this initiative, and we would also like to say it clearly: we continue to defend the need for it to be repealed by its character contrary to the principles of reintegration, of education and of humanity. And we are very concerned, honestly - we say - that the People's Party uses the Criminal Code and its hardening as an electoral weapon, taking advantage of the state of opinion greatly sensitized and enormously conditioned by concrete and highly mediated crimes. Recently, in an interview — which I absolutely recommend — granted to the Journal of Mallorca, Carmen Tomás y Valiente — the daughter of the president of the Constitutional Court who had been horribly murdered by ETA — she replied, when asked, that she — a penanist — would do her good when all right was criminal. Carmen Tomás and Valent said: "It's happening and it's not going well with me. A symbolic criminal right is used by which the State can understand that it acts, but it is technically deficient because it pronounces the coup de cassation mediatique." —pespas. That is punitive populism or criminal populism, ladies and gentlemen; that is to say, using criminal law to give immediate response to certain social problems of great media impact, seeking electoral revenues while circumventing the analysis of the structural and systemic factors underlying any individual criminal act. I won't give names, I won't put surnames, I won't talk about families, because I would at any rate find it disrespectful. I refer to the cases mentioned by Mrs Prado in her speech. It's been said that they're all women, women killed and raped.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u122	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u123	And I'm sending...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u124	Quiet please! And it's over, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u125	Yeah, I'm done. And I invite all the people who are in the Chamber to read the transcription of Mr. Picatoste, the magistrate of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, who was last week in the Equality Commission and who was talking about the problem of male violence through the Criminal Code. I insist that it is legitimate, it is understandable, it is, moreover, very human that the families of the victims of absolutely atrocious crimes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u127	...they demand hardness in their sorrows, even more than there is. But the legislative power, the political power, the political organizations, they demand us, they assume us, more reason than emotion. I don't know if he's legislating protestors, but what we're sure of is that it can't be done hot or the headline strike. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u129	Thank you, President. I'm not gonna give names either, except two. I'm going to talk about Cesare Lombroso and Cristina Cifuentes. Cesare Lombroso has the honour of being the most ridiculous criminal in the history of criminal law of the 19th century. We're in the 21st century. And he said, "For adult criminals, there's not a lot of remedies. It's either necessary to lock them up forever, in cases of incorrigible, or suppress them, when their incorrigibility makes them too dangerous. And Cristina Cifuentes, just a month ago, said, "There are crimes that, because of their cruelty, should have a higher punishment, since society deserves to be protected from these kinds of criminals who are recurrences." Today perhaps Paula Prado, with some of the phrases she just said here, could be included in this terna, with Cesare Lombroso and Cristina Cifuentes. It reflects what you bring to this House today, which is not a better criminal right — which is what society deserves — but another criminal right, that of the 19th century Lombroso. It's a bad way of doing politics, using the pain of the victims. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to express our most absolute respect to the victims and their families, but also our most absolute rejection of those who, without any reason, intend to convert the suffering and indignation of society into a daring political weapon. [[Applause]] It is petty that the Minister of Justice himself handles that pain and has stated that "to pay attention to social affairs that really concern Spanish is what distinguishes the People's Party from other political parties." You have to have a lot of faces to make such a statement, a minister of a party who, according to the People's Valedora in Galicia, has cut off so many social rights that thousands of Greeks have died waiting for the right to dependency to be recognised. Check the reports of the People's Valedora. For us it's an absolute indecency. [[Murmurs.]] Why? Because this bill is a disincentive in its own approach.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u130	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u131	Because this bill is a disincentive in its own approach. It's not a bill on which we urge the German Government to urge anyone. We set up parliamentary groups of Congress and Senate. We don't understand how the Bureau was able to accept this bill. From now on, a spit is opened so that the rest of us can do the same. Also because you forget that the Constitution, in addition to the right to socialization, includes the right to freedom and security, as set out in Article 17. And freedom is first for some reason, for some reason, not second. It's very difficult to reciprocate someone who has to spend at least twenty-five years in prison. Social reintegration after twenty-five years in prison is very complicated. Thirdly, because you criticize the Socialist Party's claim to repeal this rule without waiting for the Constitutional Court to resolve our own unconstitutional appeal. Look back and think about what you've done with the Abortion Law, our Abortion Law, and the Homosexual Marriage Law. Exactly the same thing, and we don't criticize his attitude. Fourthly, because when in May 1995 the Criminal Code of Democracy came into force — which, by the way, made a government of the Socialist Party — it was one of the toughest, as it was said here. It's true, it's one of the toughest that exists in Spain, and it's always the two-thirds of the sentence, necessarily. They're no longer recovering regrets for the work or the kind of issues that go down the street. You, in thirty years, in barely twenty years, went up your feathers and also included this deprivation of... [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo pauses.]] President, I would like to be able to make my speech without anyone bothering me with your comments, if possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u132	Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u133	Thank you, President. This reversible permanent prison, which is nothing more than a life-threatening prison, tells you that it is based on social demand, which is not a democratic justification. Yesterday, Mr. Pedro Puy literally said, "It's in Parliament and not the blow to hear protesters." In fact, he was legislated in Parliament and not to the blow of hearing what he was supposed to say on the street. I don't think you asked those millions of Spanish citizens. Also, by the way, perhaps because of the madness of Mr. Ruíz Gallardón, who wanted to go through history for many things, unfortunately also for this. And besides, because this is one of the most inhumane penalties that exist. The first most inhumane is the death penalty, without any doubt. And what a democratic state must aspire to is a criminal policy based on a principle of humanity. That's exactly what the European Court of Human Rights says. It doesn't say what you just said. There is a United Kingdom judgement of 2013, which clearly marks the difference, and which sets a deadline, which is 15 years maximum in prison, in order to be able to re-enter society; never twenty-five, which is what brings your permanent re-revisable prison. He was not accepted by either the General Council of the Judiciary or the Council of State. It's not true, it's not true! There was only one, from the General Council of the Judiciary, two advisors who said they believed it was in accordance with the Constitution. The rest said no, that it was dubiously constitutional. Margarita Robles too, who knows of this much more than all of us in here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u134	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u135	By the way — President, we must also aspire to a criminal policy that addresses the victims, the needs of the victims, never with the criminal code in hand. That's not to take care of the victims. There's a lot of other things. For example, don't remove those seven psychologists from the gender-based violence courts, which you did last year and in January. That's just to take care of the victims. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u136	Finish it, Mrs. Vilan, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u137	I'm done. It's an absolutely unnecessary penalty. They're not going to stop committing these crimes even if there's this penalty. In America there is a death penalty and they continue to commit crimes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u139	In Spain — last, president — they die of murder...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u141	...about 300 people a year, 30% less than three decades ago. And the last thing I would like to say, in addition to, of course, saying that we are going to vote against, is that in Spain we had the courage, the effort and many dead to end the terrorist organization ETA without the need for life imprisonment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u142	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u143	We're up to those people who just died for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u145	For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u146	Against the unfortunate intervention of Mrs. Paula Prado, well emulatory in the 21st century of the doctrines of Cesare Lombroso, as Mrs. Vilan recalled, I recommend another reading, the other Caesar who came to combat Lombroso, who was Beccaria, Cesare Beccaria, who spoke of the humanization of the penalties and who was one of the theoretical ones — together with other illustrious criminalists and other illustrious criminalists, such as Concepción Arenal, for example — that, by humanizing the penalties, they achieved a better society for the whole of society, also for those people who initially wanted to back us — incarcerated themselves in abandoned convents, storing them as if they were simple gain, not treating them as people, not affecting them in any way. The commitment of society, once it has imprisoned criminals, is to continue to act on them to re-educate them and re-socialize them; something which establishes article 25 of the Constitution and which you seem to ignore. If we go to the polls, there's a survey that wouldn't resist more than zero percent of the population, because 100 percent of the population, when asked, wants equality policies that create material conditions for the freedom of all people. When you ask the population, 100 percent of it wants means of protection for the victims, means of agile justice. It reminded Cesare Beccaria that it was much more effective, in the system of sentences, an agile penalty than a long penalty, since it was better than the people who committed crimes, once they were arrested, were immediately made available to the judiciary, and imprisoned if they were sentenced, than after a long trial. Well, something that hasn't just been produced today precisely because of the lack of means in the administration of justice. The only crime that comforts is what is not committed. And that requires investment in prevention, crime prevention in equality policies. A lot of security has been said here ignoring several things. First of all, that the 1995 Penal Code already included prison sentences of up to thirty years, that in 2003 these sentences reached a prison sentence of up to forty years; with data already offered here of crime rates of the lowest in the world and yet with rates of imprisonment of the highest democracies in our environment. Here you are to make the assertions that Mrs Prado has made absolutely, from a scientific but also democratic point of view, which is the function of prison sentences in a democratic society; as you do not know, even if you had to say today to this forum, that prison sentences are structured in phases, four phases, which have for purpose—two, mainly—in the first place, to order life in prison, to somehow stimulate the punishment so that you have a good behaviour within the prison—for if there is no kind of incentive for the progression of degree, there will not be good behavior in prison—and, secondly, to give encouragement to influence your behavior, to stimulate it to read, to form, to educate itself, so that the therapy will come, so that it will be allowed to undergo the correctional treatment that makes the democratic purposes of punishment possible, which are resocialization and social education. There is also, of course, a repressive function, which we consider to be perfectly covered with a maximum penalty that has so far been planned for forty years in prison. That introduces the revisable permanent prison? A horizon above the age of forty. It could come, according to the sentence calculation formula, up to 50 years. And secondly, the second novelty is the impossibility of the progression of degree defined by law, not by the Board of Prison Treatment, which follows closely the evolution of the penalty, but with a limitation by law. You speak of the fact that this grief is not inhuman or degrading, when it really is because it imposes the fulfilment, to a maximum of second degree, of a period exceeding thirty-five years — and it can reach beyond forty — which means the absolute denial of a horizon of hope in freedom throughout the lives of people. And this is not said by En Marea, said by renowned criminalists, such as Quintero Olivares or Diez Ripolés, who studied this subject. The penalty is inhuman and degrading, according to the European Court of Human Rights, for a reason which has already been explained here too. If you read your own judgments cited in the explanatory statement — which you obviously did not — you will see as in the "Bodein case" or the "Hutchinson case" the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights condition the acceptance of these penalties to a review, which in one case, as Mrs Vilan stated, was restricted to fifteen years, and could reach a maximum of twenty-five years, with a maximum of revision in the twenty-sixth; something that does not happen to the revisible permanent prison, which can reach a legal non-review of degree until the past thirty-five years. There is therefore an absolute loss of the horizon of freedom, of the vital horizon of freedom, taking into account, moreover, that the life expectancy of the imprisoned population is less than the life expectancy of the population in freedom. With this, what we mean is that nothing will be done with this maintenance of this grief. First, to avoid crimes, because no one will be deterred from committing an offence because he is 40 years old or 50 years old; therefore the function of deterrence will not happen. Secondly, in order to punish the offender with a penalty that already in practice establishes the loss of life horizons, there will be no consequence whatsoever. So -- and you slipped it at the end of your intervention -- the only purpose of this non-law proposition was the biased confrontation at the expense of the pain of the victims. And that seems especially bad and excruciating to us. We want to condemn him here and denounce the most gross punitive populism that the People's Party is subject to: to play with the pain of the victims for your own benefit by trying to seek income from that confrontation... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u148	...that they have, especially with Citizens, so that they don't eat them space. And we think it's a bad advice, a bad decision, to use the Criminal Code to solve other kinds of problems that neither have to do with the Criminal Code nor have to do with the crime prevention nor have to do with the treatment of criminals or have to do with the Constitution or have to do with democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u149	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u150	Thank you, President. Mrs Vilan, the suffering and indignation of society comes from that you, together with the PNV, together with Podemos, En Marea and Ciudadanos, four months ago passed a resolution for the derogating of the rescanable permanent prison, and that led to the mobilization of families. Opportunism is not that of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And when he speaks of opportunism, I remind him that in 2008, when the case I just quoted here, that of Mari Luz Cortés, governed the Socialist Party, Mrs. Maria Teresa de la Vega was vice president, and they hardened the penalties of the Criminal Code. And do you know what were the statements of the Socialist Vice President?"It is largely due to the events that struck public opinion". You do it with the coup of political opportunism and victims. [[Applause]] Look, I understand that the parties that change principles like those who change socks don't understand that the People's Party has some ferocious principles that will continue to defend. And when we approved the revisable permanent prison in 2015 it was by an election promise of 2011. This doesn't come from now on, unfortunately, events that all of us are saddened by. No, ladies and gentlemen, you were the ones who opened this debate four months ago, on 4 October, it wasn't the People's Party; ninety days earlier, in particular, the emergence, unfortunately, of Diana Quer's body. Don't say it's because the People's Party is taking advantage of the pain of the victims. No, ladies and gentlemen, it was you, ninety days before that, when they reopened this debate. To say that we are using families is indeed political opportunism. [[Applause]] Tell those who want to benefit from the suppression of this grief, [...] Those who take photos with Otegi, Mrs. Rodil. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] You're from the Red Sea! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Presas has pictures of Mr. Otegis. [[Applause]] Are those the ones you're defending with your prison exemption...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u151	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u152	Look, ladies and gentlemen, you put this debate on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u153	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u154	And we're going to keep our principles. We will continue to advocate that this grief be maintained. It's a demand of society, yes. And we listen to society. It's a shame that you don't hear her, that you only hear her Sunday morning when they go out with the billboards and don't hear every day the family's cry to see, at least, a little relieved her pain seeing inside the prison those who did so much damage and took away their most loved ones. Those are the people you have to listen to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u155	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised by the position of the BNG, the white brand of the UPG, or the tides of Podemos, which are always [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u157	Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests continue.]] Silence! Mr. Lago! Mr. Lake, be quiet! I'll talk to Mrs. Prado when I have to. Please, shut up! And that's it, Mrs. Prado. [[Strong murmurers.]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u158	I'll explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u159	Mr. Lago, I'll have to call you in order. I know when I have to talk, that's why I'm the president and I know when I have to talk. [[Protests continue.]] Silence! Silence! I'll talk to Mrs. Prado when I have to. Quiet, please! If not, I'll suspend the full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u160	Mr. President, if I say this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u161	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u162	...I'm going to explain it, because someone didn't understand it. When I say this, it's because Mr. Otegi is a convicted terrorist. He's a gentleman who's been in prison for belonging to a terrorist band called ETA, and there are members of these groups taking pictures of Mr. Otegi. That's why I say they're next to [...], in the photos or in the demonstrations. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u163	Quiet, quiet! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, in the demonstrations in Catalonia there are members of this House who take pictures next to Mr. Otegi. Paul and Paul were present at that meeting in Ephesus....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u165	Silence! Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u166	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u167	It's over, it's over. [[Protests continue.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! I'll suspend the full. It'll be better, because I don't think this debate is being... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] End, Mrs. Prado, end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I end by asking the whole House to think about the families, what they're going on; and not now but for years, years, suffering that there are horrendous criminals in the streets who are not re-entered, who are not in a position to live in society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u170	...and endangering our daughters, our mothers, our workmates, the children, who are vulnerable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u171	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u172	...with sexual predators who are neither rehabilitated nor reintroduced. And that's the end of the resizable permanent prison. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. I'll talk. Mrs. Prado, I ask you to withdraw an expression. [...] Therefore, I ask you... [[Murmurs.]] No, it's not the same, it's not the same. I ask you to remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u174	Yes, for change [...]. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u175	No, no, sorry! Speaking, we understand each other. The phrase was that you said they're "on the side..." No, I don't think that's a timely phrase. That's why I'm asking... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!, give a voice to the scan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u176	I'm saying we're next to the victims, taking pictures of the victims. And they're next to [...], which is where the photos are taken. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u177	The expression you used is removed. I think it's an expression, but it's not a proper expression. I think it's clear. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo and Mr. Villares Naveira ask for the floor.]] Why do you want the word now? I think it's clear. I give the word, but based on what? [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence, please, I am moderated this debate! Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u178	If possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u179	Quiet, please! Silence! Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u180	On the basis of Article 76, I believe that, after Mrs Prado's very serious statements in this plenary, she is justified on her own by the fact that there is a round of responses to accusations that are very serious, very serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u181	Killed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u182	Graves!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u183	Sorry, corrected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u184	No, he didn't fix them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u185	Yes, yes, ma'am... Mrs. Pontón, this is correct.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u186	Mr. President, I really think there are red lines that cannot be crossed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u187	Mrs. Pontón, no, no. I've been in the debate and I've been careful.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u188	Among other things, because I am part of a political force where there were many militants persecuted by franchise that gave their face in defense of democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u189	It's over. Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, call her in order. [[Protests continue.]] I'll call her in order. Silence! I call it in order because I don't like the gesture... I don't like it, and you have to have respect in this Parliament. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you are not in the use of the word. That's clear. It's not the same. Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u190	We understand that it has not been properly corrected for allusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u191	I understand you do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u192	Yes, man!, because let the expression [...] seem to us to maintain an accusation, maintain an insult, maintain an indignity to this House by the honourable Member. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] And we cannot accept that it is said; therefore, we do not accept any substitution for one another.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u193	Quiet, Mr. Villares. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u194	All we accept is completely removing the expression, which is objectively offensive, objectively slanderous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u195	Your time is up. Mr. Villares, your time is up, please. This is already rectified. Silence! G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the existing needs and the necessary improvements in rail transport between Ourense, Santiago de Compostela and La Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u196	Amendments have been tabled by the Länder Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u197	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Even though the body asks me something else, I'm going to focus on the subject of this initiative, because the fact is that the Galician Nationalist Block has much more respect for the role that should theoretically have in this Parliament than what has just been demonstrated by what we have just lived through. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if Galicia has been historically aggravated by the Central Government, there is a service and a part of the territory that carries the palm, which is the train and the interior of this country. Today, in particular, our initiative focuses on the line that connects Ourense with Santiago de Compostela and La Coruña. Since the BNG we've always wagered for a railway network that was modern, compatible for trafficking in persons and goods, that had dominated internal mobility and connected us between the territory and also with Meseta and Portugal. However, decisions other than our country have mastered a design where Madrid was the center of the world, and the connection to the capital of the state has completely caught up with all investments. And undoubtedly that connection is useful and necessary, but it is also true that the needs of the oresans neither begin nor end there. What's the matter? For the problem is that this design and its policies have always been at the expense of both the country's internal connection and the modernization of our network. And the result is that Galicia, unlike what happens in other territories, such as Andalusia, Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country, etc., does not have a nearby train. We don't have a proximity train in our country because the Spanish State and the policies of the People's Party always vetted it. And while the rest of the state was progressing, we saw how Ourense had to see how it was left behind in the railway modernization process. It has been saved relatively because it is a place of passage and entry to Madrid, and therefore today most of the trains that stop in the city do just because they go out or enter our community. It has been saved, as I say — differently from what happened, for example, with Lugo, who was absolutely isolated — but in exchange for two major aggravations. The first was loss of lines — instead of winning connections we gradually lost them. A faster train has arrived, yes, but in exchange for a large cut on the intermediate lines. Just less than a decade ago, the regional train connected Ourense to Santiago and, by the way, many other populations, such as Maside, The Carballin, The Irish, the Lalin, the Flag or the Susana, just to quote the latest. The smaller ones were definitely closed in 2013. And some of them, like Carballin or Irishman, keep these stops, they retain some regional train throughout the day, but it's absolutely scarce and far below the potentialities that these lines would have. That train line known as "old" is underused. And we think from the BNG that it is necessary to promote its use, because the train has undoubtedly advantages that no one can deny, both with respect to the environment and with benefits for the comfort and security of people. So today we propose, among other things, not to forget this regional line as well and extend your time offer so that it can really be an alternative. The second major aggravation that produced the historical evolution of the railway to Ourense is the arrival of the Avant train, which a priori was a good news, a priori involved a shortening of the times. Indeed, when I was studying in this city, many years ago, I used the railway almost two hours to get between Santiago and Ourense. And today it lasts 38 minutes. What's going on? That he did it at a price and with absolutely abusive and insufficient schedules. Instead of serving as a public service, it's practically becoming a luxury article. That's why today we bring concrete and urgent proposals around the Avant Ourense-Santiago-The Coruña line, to put an end to a situation that is truly aggravating and discrimination with Ourense and its surroundings, discrimination at prices and times. Today, a ticket between Santiago and Ourense is worth 16.60 euros, much more than traveling between Santiago de Compostela and Vigo, which is 11.10, or between Santiago and A Coruña, which is 7.35. If we analyze the lines that go along the Atlantic axis and compare them with this line that connects The Coruña and Santiago de Compostela with Ourense, in all light there is an inexplicable comparative distress. Prices per kilometer are much more expensive. We can see how to travel from Ourense to Coruña costs up to 13 cents per kilometer; from Ourense to Santiago, up to 15 cents per kilometer. And instead, the average on the Atlantic axis is 9 centimeters per kilometer. If we compare the price per minute, Ourense-Santiago is 38 minutes and 0.43 cents per minute; Santiago-A Coruña, with only 10 minutes less, is 0.26 cents per minute, almost half. For no reason, for no reason to be explained under objective parameters, today one or an oransa who wants to use this means of transport pays up to 60% more for the price of his ticket than what pays anyone who travels through the Atlantic axis, a real abuse that, in addition, does not end at the price, which continues also on the hourly offer, with a much lower hourly frequency and that makes it impossible for many people who study or work in Santiago de Compostela to be able to use this means of transport. For example, one of those officers of justice who are on strike today, to come from Ourense has very early options, at eight in the morning. But if, for example, you have to go to the doctor and move later, because until noon you don't have a train. And in the afternoon, to come back after 3:00 p.m., you can only come on a train at 5:00 p.m. or on a train at 8:00 p.m., something that in all light limits people's mobility very much. But this doesn't stay here, there's still more. Also transport bonds are absolutely delusional when we compare them to what a person can acquire for other frequencies. Today, for example, with the "abon plus 10" you have 10 tickets to spend in eight days. It's true that there's an important discount, but any student who has a day a week that doesn't have classes, or any worker who comes next week, for example, can ask for Tuesday free entry and don't have to travel to the capital of the country, because they couldn't use that week the bonus, because it has to come five days a week for them to be profitable, an absolute nonsense. So since the BNG today we have demanded three key questions: that we negotiate with the State and with Adef the collapse of the line, at least 30%, to approve and bring it closer to the prices that are being paid elsewhere; to extend also the hourly frequency and reformulate these bonds so that they can really be useful. There are reasons, firstly, for social justice and territorial balance — even more when Ourense has an absolutely critical socio-economic and demographic situation — and also because the train is and must be saved as a public service. We pay it all and all through the resources that we bring with our taxes and, therefore, we don't understand a discrimination by which, according to where you live, you pay more or less. Even more, we have three factors that seem important to us. First of all, if we do an analysis of Renfe's economic accounts — although full 2017 accounts are not yet published — we know that, in the first six months of the year, Renfe Viaxeiros had a benefit of more than 66 million euros. The full data of the year is missing, as I say, but yesterday we had the news that there's going to be a low cost AVE for another part of the territory while we have a high-cost Avant. Secondly, it must also be said that this line I am mentioning, that of Ourense-Santiago-The Coruña, for it is one of many that are considered by the State as public service obligations. Let a line be considered as a public service obligation means that it enters into the distribution of more than 937 million euros that Fómento approaches Renfe-Adif to help develop them; more than 937 million euros that come out of the public archives and, therefore, from which we can benefit ourselves as well. We must also consider another last and third question. In the 2016 audit of Renfe's economic memory — as I said, 2017 is not yet — it is recalled that this line has experienced both an increase of travellers and an increase in securities sales and an increase in economic profit. Therefore, since the Galician Nationalist Bloc it is important that we agree on a country position from Parliament to put an end to this absolute discrimination. There is no excuse, and the Galician Union has to get out of its position of absolute immobilization and negotiate this issue now that we are, in addition, at the door of a new negotiation for the 2018 budgets. We understand that there are no excuses, and what we vote today is very simple: either if you agree or against that there is a discount of up to 30%, at least; or if you are in favour or against that there are more lines; and whether you are in favour or against that there are some useful and reasonable bonds that can allow those people in Ourense to wish you and that you have to move Santiago de Compostela or the Crown often can do so on equal terms of any other Welsh or Galician living in the Atlantic fringe. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u200	Good morning to all and to all. I can't speak without referring to what happened before, because in the year and half, or in the year and two months, that we've been here, I've never heard such obscenity and I've never seen such a disgusting attitude... and a demagogy of this magnitude. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] I think, Mr. President, if it's all right, it's nothing. And this is intolerable. The arguments raised by the opposition forces were arguments, ma'am, and if they are so interested that these things do not happen — and I think that all groups express solidarity with the victims — if they are so interested, because they really put measures, they enable credit and emergency budget so that the state pact can move forward. Or, since they've been talking about Valencia all day yesterday, they've been looking at the state pact for Valencian equality, they're sure to be interested. They take preventive measures, they don't hide their responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u201	That's the point, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u202	It seems we're at the entrance, but here it seems like they're using the costumes of truth. And this is terrible. I believe that poisoning, polluting, scratching, are not high-level political levels, nor is it serious. I thought, when I got here, that this was serious, that we were really going to address the issues of citizenship. And if you're on pre-election campaign, please, which is not to use these kinds of issues to implement the campaign. It's not receipt! [[Applause]] It's not logical. I demand and continue to demand correction. Well, on the subject, which is important to Ourense, is a seemingly obvious subject. In the media, like everything we're talking about here repeatedly, the public and not the private is what we stand for, along with all forces and all groups, and that's why we're going to support the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. And we ourselves also present an initiative. Public transport must ensure social and territorial cohesion. That is a principle that we do not invent, which is a principle that emanates from the sensitivity of all European Union documents, in particular the ETE, which is the European territorial strategy. The disastrous performance of the Italian Executive and the state in this regard is evident. We're a community that we live on the outskirts, it's an obvious... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I didn't hear, I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Cuña Bóveda pauses.]] It's peripheral, and that's why we suffer from a double ejacism: an external ejacism, due to the lack of dignified connectivity with the rest of the state, and an internal ejacism, which has manifested itself in a weak connectivity in cities and villages. Well, from different levels and plans, we're always needed to articulate public transport that's what it is, let it be cohesive. And, of course, the train is a reference, because it has a collective capacity... and in addition to the efficiency or not of the means of transport, there is an essential question: that also affects the environment, that is, it is sustainable. We jump for a high-quality railway, which certainly affects the equality of the citizens and the citizens of Greece. Public administrations are required to optimize the services available to us today. And if we do a comparison, we see that Ourense is double-margined, or double-punished: at the tariff level and at the economic level, at the timetable level and at the tariff level. The hourly level is not so much that we are treated from Ourense as a long distance population, but we don't have a worthy timeframe. There's a comparative aggravating with other towns and cities and there's a comparative aggravating even in weighting. If there's frequency-level weighting and there's a problem, there's also the problem that we have a special level 4 in Ourense and they have a rate 6 in Coruña. This is incongruent. This is a paradox and you don't understand it. Why does there have to be an economic difference and a difference in fringes from province to province? There is a graphic example: if a citizen or citizen wants to go from Coruña to Santiago with a bicycle, he can park it in the enabled space; if he wants to ride the same bike to Ourense, he has to pack it as if it were a suitcase. That plus bonds, plus economic discrimination, places Ourense as the last in the row. We are well accustomed to being treated with lust, with discrimination, and then what is asked is something that has to do with this principle of social and territorial cohesion. It's an absolutely congruent request. And we have simply made a small amendment about expanding the hourly frequency not only on the line Ourense-Santiago but also Ourense-Santiago-The Coruña, although it is true that of the Coruña the Compostela there are as 27 options, which does not happen with Ourense-Santiago. And also to address the Central Government to establish identical tariff policies and modalities throughout the territory. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Before continuing the debate, and warning a mistake on my part — we can all be wrong, it is true, and I am the first to acknowledge it — because I withdrew the expression — I spoke from the previous debate — and was absolutely convinced that I had called Mrs. Paula Prado to order. And I didn't call her, as I'm told now. So you have a call to order to Mrs Prado, and that expression is withdrawn. No one's on that side here. I want to make this absolutely clear. And he's retired. [[Applause]] And now you have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u204	Thank you, President. Mrs. Cuña, I see what matters to you about the train or frequencies of Ourense, which has thrown almost all of your intervention — three minutes — talking about the previous proposal. I see how important it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Madam President, today we have a very similar initiative to the initiative adopted last week in Commission 2nd. And once again, with his speech, they reaffirm his negative and annihilated vision in the past in the field of connections and infrastructure. Look, Spain has nearly 3,000 miles of AVE line, just behind China. And we are the envy of many countries. In fact, as you should know, Spanish companies, Germans — and even our city, Ourense — are made with important contracts for the construction of lines similar to AVE all over the world. So, Mrs. Presas, look to the future and, of course, look beyond their nationalism. We understand that if it were for you and your colleagues at the Tide of Podemos, of course Galicia wouldn't have AVE. But luckily for everyone, it's not up to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Atlantic axis and the high-speed corridor between Santiago de Compostela and Ourense are services that allow us to reach our cities. They are infrastructures that reduce travel times and save time every day to the Greeks who need this means of transport to work or study. As for the provision of services, it must be remembered that, within the framework of their competences, public administrations must ensure that there is an offer of public transport that can meet the demands of the mobility of the Greek citizens. To this end, in Galicia we have certain medium-distance railway services which are defiant but which are declared as a public service obligation and which is why they are maintained, even if they are not profitable. What you do, ladies and gentlemen, is give economic compensation from the Administration to the operator so that you can continue to maintain these services and guarantee all your stops even if there are losses; all this is geared towards meeting the needs of people's mobility. So, Mrs. Presas, we don't agree with you for anything in the negative chronicle and the abandonment that you make of these railway services. Increasing these services and therefore the necessary public expenditure would only be justified by the existence of an adequate demand and that it was not covered by other public transport services. See, the number of daily trains can generally be considered appropriate. It's 12 daily trains per way between Santiago and Ourense. But we must not fail to point out that, since its launch, both the Atlantic and the Ourense corridor have experienced a significant increase in users. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that Greek citizenship is happy and wants AVE. Look, Mrs. Presas, I don't know anyone in our province or city who doesn't support this infrastructure, so they don't share, at all, their negative vision and the one that your entire group has. However, and despite the fact that it is a state competition, since the Council of Galicia, it will continue to work, in the wake of its competences, to offer the best service to citizens and to ask Renfe to continue to improve the rates and services at the pace that the demands and needs of citizens require, whether increasing the frequencies or handling them with trains of greater capacity. We therefore propose from the People's Group an amendment to the text agreed last week in Commission 2 - voted unanimously - which consisted of harmonizing tariffs and increasing frequencies. We hope that you, through responsibility and coherence, will take it into account. But, in addition, to strengthen that agreement, from the People's Group, we want to extend it, and we offer you a transaction with our amendment; a transaction incorporating point 2 of your initiative, concerning transport bonds. And we would even agree to include point number 3 of your proposal, always and when you modify it with a plugin, which would remain the way I'm going to explain to you: "Enlarge the hourly frequency of the Ourense-Saintiago regional line to improve mobility among middle populations according to demand." And I repeat, Your Honor, get on the side of the majority group for the purpose of defending this infrastructure, which is vital for our community, and very especially for our province of Ourense. That's why I hope you will accept our proposal, since it expands what you ask for in your proposal and that it will certainly bring greater benefit to all the Greeks and, of course, to all the orensans. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u206	Thank you, President. The truth is that the previous exposure of all groups, aside from the discrepancies in the texts to be approved or not approved, makes clear what is needed in the proposal. But it is also true that this same initiative, indeed, has already been supported by this group in the committee last week when a similar text was adopted. We understand that this new petition is grounded by both mistrust in the rhythms and commitments of this Government. Today, let's remember that song by Andrés do Barro that spoke of that train that was on the side of the Mine, passing through the little pass. Since 1969, the year of that song, up to the present, have spent forty-nine years, passing through the little passage, and not only for the ores, but for all the Greeks and the Greeks. And as reality is on the street and if it shows with facts, let's see the experience of two of these Greeks, Rubén and Adela. Both are commercial and have to approach Santiago de Compostela several days a month. Rubén lives in Ourense and Adela in Vigo, the distance in kilometre between the two cities and the capital is practically the same. On the day he goes to work for Compostela, Rubén takes 38 minutes from Ourense, and Adela takes 50 minutes from Vigo. Although Rubén travels faster than Adela on a train leaving at 7:55, in case he loses it he has no choice of another train until four hours later. Adela invests some more time in walking almost the same miles, but on the contrary, she has a choice to catch another train; she has almost one hour each day. It's not much, but at least it has options. Ouransan costs €26.60 the journey back and forth to Compostela; and to the viguese, €16.30. Ourrensane is therefore 39% more expensive than a Vigo-Compostela line user. And yet in this comparison between Rubén and Adela, what do we conclude? For the German railway policy is unequal in fares, schedules and times for all the Greeks and the Greeks. The Director General of Mobility assured in December 2016 that the increase of 14% of users in the Atlantic axis since its inception appreciate the excellent acceptance — said "excellent" — of this service by the Greek citizen. From the Socialist Group we have made it clear that what the Director-General described as an excellent acceptance for us is a ridiculous, dangerously self-comprehensive argument and that it is obvious the serious shortcomings. And far from being able to reach the Greeks and the Greeks, it led to greater alienation because it did not respond to the current mobility needs. In fact, the summary of Galician rail policy is the continuous confrontation of advantages: speed is always contrasted with hourly frequencies; rates, distances; and times, prices. It seems that when you get a better service, it's always up to you to provoke another's worsening. In fact, the comparison of Rubén and Adela points out not only that the orensans suffer less advantageous schedules and tariffs — which is totally true — but that the railway service has great problems in all the lines of Galicia. They allow us to doubt the future effectiveness in coordinating the timetables and services of bus and train lines at intermodal stations when they are only able to achieve coordination and effectiveness of the same transport network. From the Socialist Group, therefore, we support this initiative, as I repeat, we have done this last week. But we also believe that negotiations and improvements in tariffs and bonds should be studied globally for all Greeks and Greeks, and demand the principle of equality in tariffs, schedules and frequencies policy. And who has to respond to this demand is the Government, not the opposition groups. It is the Government who has to bear in mind that, above all, we are talking about a public service that as such has to behave and respond to the overall mobility strategy that this Government should have and work to improve. Meanwhile, it is understandable that opposition groups are forced to present these kinds of initiatives that leap for the improvement of territories with more obvious and obvious inequalities. Weirens know a lot about the rhythms of the government: I pass through the pass with the arrival of the AVE, I pass through the passage with the transport of passengers, I pass through the passage with the current railway service. See if the time has come and at least the oransans can go through the stanza and sing the "the train that takes me, walks; he goes smoking and runs along the way." Now the trains are no longer going with coal, but they allow the Socialist Party today to contribute to making that Do Barro train more competitive, going further and faster. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u208	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I, in fact, do not stop being amazed at this House. BNG comes here to talk about the scam of the train to Ourense and Mrs. Novoa, who is still a member of the electoral district of Ourense, comes here about the AVE of Spain. You know, Mrs. Novoa, why couldn't she talk about AVE in Galicia? [[Laughter]] Because there isn't! [[Applause]] Because there's no AVE in Galicia! That's why you have to talk about Spain's AVE and the big networks that are going on by the Spanish State. [[Applause]] I think it's all right, they're blessed! But in Galicia we have a comparative aggravation in train development; and in particular in Ourense, both in train development and in these prices and times. You tell me we'll look into the future beyond our nationalism. I sincerely recommend to you that you look beyond your Spanish nationalism, the case that they practice in the People's Party, which makes investments out of Galicia and with the resources that we come to, rather than having us a modernized way. And stop lying! Because we can't count 12 daily trains for sense. We can't count them! It's just, for you to know who doesn't know the subject closely, for example, when a Madrid Alvia comes, you can buy it at a front price — that sometimes it's not even less — that ticket, but if there's room. You can't count it absolutely as a safe line. No, of course, in vacation periods, for example, or in weekend periods — when there's more traffic — because you can't often access that train. Then you can't compute it as one more offer, as if it were systematized. Of course not! Then I made this argument about the lack of trust in the country and that we are always, forever, and so on. As if those 937 million euros to promote this type of line had not also come out of the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks! But, look, Mrs. Novoa, I'm going to read you something that appears at the 2016 Renfe Economic Memory. He says that in 2016 — still lacking knowledge of the 2017 data — 16% increased the trips between Galicia and Madrid, which is the prioritized line. But it's just that between Ourense and other points, through this line, they grew to 76% -- 16% versus 76% -- And Renfe's own memory says -- and BNG doesn't say -- "...detaching Ourense's growth by the widespread use of tickets combined with other Galician points." And it also says there was a benefit in that year of more than 51.7%, an increase in profits. Therefore, it is obvious that it has more than enough potential for this train to be claimed to be damaged. And that's what we do on this initiative, that's what we propose. The majority group is asking us to stand by their side. Man, so far it hasn't been too good about the train. If what you really want to say is that you're going to be rectified and that you're going to be on the side of the demands we're making from the opposition, because we welcome you and we're going to try to find a consensus on that transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u209	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u210	Yes, I'll be right there. The amendment they originally tabled didn't seem enough, because they didn't pick up that request, and we insisted that we think they should recapitulate and give them their support to demand a discount, at least 30%. That would mean that it would cost each ticket a little more than 10 euros and that it would be approved with other parts of the territory. In our initiative we also included — which in the original amendment was not — the issue of bonds, and we also included the question of line enlargement. So let us call them back to dialogue, let us see the compromise proposal with you and, if possible, we will reach a consensus. Now, I also tell you that there are a few uncompromising whole agreements on rail transport...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u212	...some of them belong to Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u214	So that attempt at consensus on our part at no time is going to be that we no longer prioritize this issue in our political agenda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u216	...as long as you mend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u218	...and make that really a priority in your negotiations with the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and five other Members, on the request by the Galician Union to the Government of the State of the Application, in cases of inheritances or prayers with residents in third countries (not belonging to the EU or the EEA) in which the causer, the heir or the donor resides, or where an immovable object of prayer is found, of the same criterion as for residents in the European Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u220	It's a bit overwhelming of this reading, but I suppose you'll now explain to the rapporteur what this is. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, it is a bit overwhelming to write the initiative. To put ourselves in a position, we're going to think of a father who dies today in Galicia leaving a prized estate worth 500,000 euros. If your son lives in Galicia or lives in a country in the European Union, he would pay inheritance taxes of 6,000 euros. If that same child lived outside the European Union, for example in Argentina or Venezuela, he would pay 106,000 euros of inheritance tax. I mean, 16 times more. We are therefore talking about a regulatory situation that we do not like, which is clearly discriminatory for a number of Greeks and Greeks who have had to emigrate and emigrate outside the countries of the European Union, in particular, many of them are affected in Latin America. I, for the purpose of taking this initiative forward — and here I pray you to support the opposition parliamentary groups because of the importance they have for many Greeks — will deal with the arguments, although they are technical matters, with the greatest possible rigour, structuring my intervention, first of all, on how the succession tax works in these areas; how it has been resolved for those who reside in the European Union; and how we intend now to resolve it for those who are outside the European Union. Look, the first thing we have to say is that the tax on inheritances and donations is a tax on free transmissions; among living people we would talk about donations, and in the event of death we would talk about successions or real rights. It is important for this initiative that we all understand that it is a tax handed down; that is, it is a tribute of the State but that it is given in regulatory competences to the autonomous communities. Is that what it allows? That autonomous communities can make their policy in relation to this tax. Thus, the Galician Union made a very important reform in 2016, applied from 1 January, which brought with it the reduction in tax taxation for taxpayers — pay attention to this data — residents of Galicia. This reduction led to the de facto abolition of the tax for 99% of the Greeks and the Greeks. And it's not a question of demagogy, it's a tax discount that doesn't seek to benefit the rich, because it's a tax discount that affects ordinary people, people who have a lower estate. We see him understanding how this reduction works. Since January 1, 2016, we have released the tax payment to all persons who receive an inheritance from an ascendant, descendant or spouse when the portion that each heir receives does not exceed EUR 400,000. That is, from 0 to 400,000 euros, from 1 January 2016 in Galicia, residents in Galicia, do not pay a euro of taxes. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, places the Autonomous Community of Galicia as one of the best taxation in inheritance transmission. So today, a son who lives here, in the autonomous Greek community, for an inheritance of EUR 400,000 doesn't pay a euro for the inheritance tax, while in Asturias, and until recently in Andalusia, he would pay more than EUR 60,000; that is, we're talking about a considerable difference. In addition, this reform is especially beneficial in an autonomous community like our own, in which the inheritances in life are allowed, through figures of our civil rights as the covenants of improvement or departure. I also give them very important data. By 2015, the alive inheritances were around 11,000 cases in Galicia. By 2016, with the application of the new regulations, 21,000; and this 2017, almost 28,000. If we refer to these contributors, to those Welsh and Welsh residents here, who benefited from this reduction in 2016, almost 63,000 Greeks benefited from the reduction because they reside here in Galicia, or in countries of the European Union, with a saving of 40 million euros. But it's just that in 2017 the beneficiaries reached almost 100,000, who used to pay the succession tax and are now paying zero. And, I repeat, people who have assets that don't reach the EUR 400,000; that is, people, therefore, of the common. In our opinion, in my parliamentary group's view, this is a very important change that also has a great impact on the economies of our citizens. What's going on? As I said before, succession taxes are not fully handed over, and there are certain cases in which state legislation applies, mainly when they are involved in inheritances or non-resident donations. Here we have to see what the situation was before 1 January 2015 and what happens next. And why January 1, 2015? Because they look — we have already spoken in a previous bill — on 3 September 2014 there is a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Community which says that it is a discriminatory treatment not to give the same solution to those who reside — so the President spoke before — in the European Union or in the European Economic Area. The solution from 1 January 2015 is that from that moment on everyone who lives in the European Union or in the European Economic Area, if they are affected by a prayer or inheritance, if they apply the rules of the Autonomous Community, which, as I explained earlier, is much more favourable to the reform which the People's Party has made. However, this solution is not intended for those who reside outside the European Community or the European Economic Area. We can think of the case of a father who lives in Argentina, with an estimated worth 500,000 euros. If your son lives in Galicia or lives in a country in the European Union, he would pay a tax of 6,000 euros; if that child lives in a Latin American country he would pay 106,000 euros. We can see the opposite too. He may be a father living in Galicia and that the children live one in Germany and another in Argentina. The one in Germany would pay 6,000 euros on a 500,000 estate, if it were less than 400,000 would pay nothing, and the one in Argentina 106,000 euros. I say Argentina as it might say Venezuela, Ecuador or any country outside the European Union. We're talking about a question that affects a large number of Greeks and Greeks, and also immigrants, who have to go and have to make a heritage, and now we're recording much of that heritage that has been made with effort and sacrifice with a tax that does not raise the autonomous community, because this is state legislation and the collection of the State Agency of Tax Administration. You could talk about that, with data from the Tax Agency, the collection of these issues over the last two years is 15 million euros, that is, they're money, and it's important, in addition, the number of people it affects. But we also have to bear in mind that, as in our autonomous community, the inheritances in life are allowed, if we are able to bring out this regulatory change, what we are going to allow is that many people who are not making these donations or those alive inheritances precisely because of the tax cost, which they can do, and will help many people in countries that have economic difficulties, many countries in Latin America. Although the state legislator, in order to comply with the judgment of 3 September 2014, limited the possibility of applying the autonomous tax benefits to residents of the European Union or the European Economic Area, my parliamentary group, and I think that also all other groups, we believe that the criterion — I am not assuming anything, but I think it is a unanimous request or must be unanimous, of all of us — of the judgment should be able to extend to inheritances and prayers with residents in third countries, in which the causer, the heir or the donor resides, or in which the immovable object of concession is found. Finally, that all these cases affecting any Welshman, being located or staying where he lives, are taxed according to autonomic regulations, which is much more favourable. In addition, we ask that they not only pay taxes in accordance with autonomous legislation, but also that the autonomous Community be given the collection of this tax in cases where it exists, and all the powers which bring about this assignment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group that goes in favour of the Greeks and Greeks who have had to emigrate to make a heritage, which cannot be treated discriminatoryly in the taxation of their inheritances and prayers. And that's why I ask the parliamentary groups for their support, so that we can move our request more forcefully to the Central Government, because this is not a question of the Galician Union, this has to leave here as an initiative addressed to the Central Government, which is who has to make the change of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u222	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. He referred to the People's Party's own voice on his initiative to the debate we had in October, to the thread of a non-law proposition of his group, in which he also asked for the assignment of both management and collection and the performance of succession taxes and prayers. And just as then, in October, we gave our support to that initiative because it seemed reasonable to us, we're going to do the same with this issue. We agreed with what I was commenting on, which is a proposal that should be unanimous in the Greek Parliament because it involves benefiting many people and also rationalizing also the management of a tribute that should come, both its management and its collection, for our country. In addition to giving European judgements, it is the logical thing to homogenise these criteria. However, I would also like to take advantage of some deeper reflection on the scandalous lack of ambition that we think you have, from the Popular Group, usually on this issue, on tax policy. This initiative and the previous one, which they presented in the plenary of October, are the closest we have seen in the matter of legislation, for its part, claiming a competition or greater self-government capacity since our country. Indeed, we understand, as I said to you, that this initiative is positive, but the truth is that it is still a request that is also endorsed by European rulings that are going in that direction, and then I am betting that they would not have dared to claim anything from the Central Government if there were no such precedents in something as obvious as the tax of successions and prayers, which is being handed over to a very important part of our country. We understand that it is a clear anomaly that this manages the Spanish State, the part of non-residents, and that it does not implement the policies emanating from the community. Regardless of our opposition to the policies that the Galician Union decides on this matter, what we understand is that it should actually belong to our sovereignty, and that the full tax assignment is the way, not only to apply homogenely and equally to the norm, since this should be the regulations, but it could achieve greater efficiency in management, because it is centralized; facilitating compliance with obligations, which also prevents indirect burdens and pressures, often due to difficulties of contact and processing; and would also allow for increased collection in Galicia and, therefore, to increase its financial autonomy. If I didn't hear bad, you were talking about a 15 million-dollar calculation. Even if autonomic discounts were applied and it was smaller, the truth is we're probably talking about important amounts. Precisely because progressing in collection and financial autonomy we understand that it is always progressing in self-government and that it allows for improving the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks because it brings more resources to our existence, we think that they should take this path to raise it to maximum power and also consider the transfer to our government of more taxes, of more management than they have to do with taxes, and that it would be more positive than we have managed from our own country, walking towards strengthening a clearly Greek farm. So we think that why not ask the Central Government to give Galicia the transfer of more taxes that we bear from the Greeks and Greeks, along with the corresponding powers over them. Moreover, when — I insist — we continue in the forefront of this debate of the financing system — we also spoke about it when it was full in October — and therefore it will also be important for the positions that towards this reform of the financing system we have communities in relation to this type of tax management. Because even the expert paper that we could meet in the summer about some of these tributes advanced on their recentralization, and we understand that that's not the way. Although little we also know of the position that Galicia is going to have in those diatrics, we do not tire of demanding that in this respect we understand that we should not take steps back, that we should take small steps forward like this, even though we do not seem sufficient, nor should we conform. In our group, therefore, even though we believe in the basic fiscal policy that you are not ambitious, in this particular question we believe that it would benefit a large number of people and, in addition, we would correct an anomaly that is being done so far, and it is important — as the spokesperson of the People's Party said — that there is a unanimous position on this issue by Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, reading today's People's Party initiative, at first I thought it was a mistake, since we understood that this initiative had been discussed three months ago, in the month of October, in this very chamber. It's true that testing one and the other are not exactly the same. In this case, the purpose is to extend the cases of inheritances or prayers to residents in third countries who do not belong to the European Union or to the European Economic Area, where the cause, the heir or donor resides, or where an immovable object of prayer is found, to apply the same criteria as for the cases of residents in the European Union. And it is also requested that autonomous communities be given the performance of this tax, as well as that management, collection, inspection and review be given to us. It should be recalled — as you have just explained and as I have already pointed out in October — that this LNP comes to comply with a European Union Court of Justice judgment which allowed differences in the tax treatment of concessions and successions in certain assumptions. The State has applied the alleged contents of this judgment but with the rules of the Autonomous Community, and has not yielded the performance or management of the said tribute, and therefore remains the State that perceives and manages it. The People's Party therefore brings an initiative in compliance with a European Union court ruling, which at that time has forgotten people living in third countries other than the European Union. I know you're giving it your head because I know that at that time you were talking only about residents in other Community countries, and in this case you're going to apply that same system to people living outside the European Union. I think so, don't I? The Socialists are going to vote in favour. We have already voted in favour of the initiative on which only people living in the European Economic Community belong. We agree that the judgments are, of course, complied with, and we agree that the State must comply with the judgments, of course. And we agree, of course, that residents in third countries, regardless of where they live, are equal. So we agree and we're going to vote in favour. But we asked him whether the state is currently more receptive to the agreements unanimously adopted in this German Parliament. Has the state ever lifted your veto? The Galician PP has already done its homework well and therefore the agreements we have adopted in this Greek Parliament unanimously will be taken into account by the State in a brief manner and will be fulfilled, as has happened, as you all know, with the transfer of AP-9, or with the conquest of that community laboratory of bacteriological control of the bivalves, that you didn't even know you would not come to Spain? Socialists argue that the tax system is fundamental to gaining a redistribution of wealth that favors the most vulnerable people and prevents their social exclusion, and that the redistribution of wealth through taxes is necessary to achieve the levels of equality that we have lost during the years of the People's Party Government. We socialists defend a tax system that weighs more on those who have the most, because one cannot treat as impossible to those who have different resources, and because the redistribution of wealth is essential to recover the welfare state to the levels that we had in 2008. Equality of rights and equal access to those rights can only be achieved by a strong state that bets to care for the most vulnerable people, care for public health, care for public education, care for social equipment, fire fighting equipment, justice and infrastructure, among others. The maintenance and quality of these public services depend on the income of our Autonomous Community, and the taxing part is fundamental. Therefore, if the People's Party of the State and the Galician People's Party and the COP had applied this principle defended by the socialists, I'm sure that in data such as: "Spain, third country of the European Union where the risk of poverty has grown the most." Almost 700,000 people remain at risk of poverty despite economic recovery. According to the latest data from the fourth quarter of the EPA, 52.36 percent of the Greek homes come with difficulty or much difficulty at the end of the month. "In Galicia we have 66,600 homes with all their members unemployed or 32,600 homes without any income."probably things would go better and there would be more equality. So even if we vote in favour and we are in favour of this non-legislative proposal that brings today the People's Party, gentlemen of the People's Party, concerned about bringing initiatives that help distribute wealth and allow people and homes to get out of the crisis they've been living in for too long. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we saw this initiative, which is similar to one that was brought about months ago, we again observed that the Government of the People's Party had the possibility to negotiate the content of this proposal that you now present in the Greek Parliament when your counterparts in Madrid had the opportunity to do so through the amendment of the law, and they did not. We would then like to understand why they did not, because they are aware that this tribute generates great wealth and fills the State's ark. That's why you, in your position of subordination to Madrid, do not really have the capacity, however far from reaching agreements in this House, to strengthen these kinds of issues, as you have already nominated in famous and sadly known cases such as AP-9 or the toxin analysis bivalve laboratory, which even your group voted for Denmark's candidacy in Europe. It is poorly regulated, it would benefit the autonomous communities by attracting wealth, and yet you have done nothing to remedy these deficiencies. The amendment of the law that was made with respect to the tax of successions and prayers was made with a Government of the People's Party, curiously with the amendment of Law 29/1987 of 18 December, and with Law 26/2014. Maybe we're wrong thinking and, in view of the compulsive obsession of Galician PP with propaganda and autobomb, rather than to govern, which is their usual way and have us used to it, go to the blow of occurrences and fatalities and don't make a single proposal or law that's really going to be quiet, when they depend on the political power of their MP counterparts at Mr. Rajoy's or when they have consensuals with social collectives or social movements and the union forces here in Galicia. I repeat that we refer only to the events of the past few years and months, and it seems more like a propaganda proposal to campaign in countries where Welsh and German immigrants live who vote for them. And you know this because you're an expert in background electoral careers and your conscience is applied. This would seem good to us, despite its obsession with propaganda, if it had really brought competition effectively to Galicia and if it really benefited the emigration Greeks, though we would prefer policies so that our people could return or have to stop leaving, like all the economic exiles who suffered the policies of mismanagement and the costs of corruption, in Galicia and throughout the state, and 100,000 people who had to leave Galicia. And why are we wrong? Because, in fact, nothing will be collected with this, since this tax is almost eliminated in Galicia, so that taxpayers could benefit from the reform of the ISD of our community since 1 January 2016, the tax has actually been eliminated for 98% of the Greeks, according to Decree 1/2011 of 28 July, so the recast text of the legal provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia concerning taxes handed down by the State is approved. The Board has led to a reduction by kinship to EUR 400,000. In the lower inheritances, direct heirs do not pay. So citizenship in its 98% doesn't have to pay, and the remaining 2% will pay less. Go, go, go, what an appropriate proposal! And the rise of FDI registered across Spain is one of the key points that the Government and the autonomous communities are negotiating to reform the system of self-financing. It's just a coincidence! The Court of Justice of the European Union, in its judgment of 3 September 2014, established: not adjusted to the Community order the Spanish ISD rule when it produces discriminatory situations between residents and non-residents. That is something I already believe that something has told the honourable Member who defended this initiative. It is contrary to Articles 63 of the European Court of Justice and 40 of the European Economic Area of 2 May 1992 by allowing differences in the tax treatment of grants and successions between persons resident and non-resident in Spain and between the causes resident in prayer and similar provisions on immovable property sites in or outside Spain. So the tax regime was eliminated by a real obligation of succession between the cause resident in Spain and the cause resident in the Community in real estate donations in Spain in favour of Community resident donors. In accordance with Community legislation, the existence of tax regimes in the Spanish State on successions and grants was considered. Thus, non-resident FDI taxation depends on different factors. One, the residence of the cause and the residence of the heirs. In the residence of the cause we apply the State Act of Death and in the residence of heirs can determine which Spanish law applies, autonomous or state laws. Then, existing possibilities — and already finished —: unifying all legislation at the Spanish level of the ISD, amending the laws applicable in successions and donations with non-resident subjects in Spain and regulating the entire state regime in the taxation of grants. Law 26/2014 has forgotten this assumption, which goes to the Constitutional Court for causing discrimination, as before between residents and non-residents. So we're going to abstain from supporting this initiative because we find ourselves with a new measure towards the gallery for propaganda, to be well, but actually it's not going anywhere. Every time they get over the lack of seriousness in what their marketing policy is, because bringing initiatives that will not change anything at all doesn't seem serious to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. I was asking in my first speech -- you've seen that I haven't been busy all the time, I don't know why we parliamentarians always have this need to occupy all the time, we explain things, it's a good initiative, we make our decisions, and it's technical rigour. Mrs. Santos, with all due respect, you didn't know anything. Now I'm talking to the people of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea who have relatives in Latin American countries. In the example I put to you, you know what the difference is? It's 100,000 euros of taxes you don't have to pay. And will they abstain from this measure that has absolutely no viability? I don't know what you're talking about. If you want, I promise to explain it clearly. Yes, yes, with technical rigour. [[Interruptions.]] And I ask you, please, to consider it because everyone we're here is doing politics... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u230	Yes, yes, technical respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u231	...—all I said, all we are here—in favour of the Greeks and the Greeks. There is a part of the Greeks and the Greeks who are affected, who are clearly discriminated against, who live — if I may explain it to them and finish my intervention — outside the European Union. Look, it's not true, Mrs. Presas, that this was a clear anomaly and that you already have a judgment — as Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo also said. The judgment clearly states that discrimination is eliminated for residents of the European Union and the European Economic Area, and leaves out the rest of the countries. The amendment made to the second additional provision of the Law 29/1987 only refers to the application of the judgment. Therefore, it is not applicable to all these immigrants who live in Latin American countries and are paying 16 times more taxes than those who live in the European Union or Galicia. Please, how can we say that this has no transcendence for Welsh and Welsh? Or are those who are outside, in Latin America, not also Welsh and Welsh? I say, come on! [[Applause]] Look, why bother them so much that this initiative brings the PP? If it was so clear, why didn't you bring this GNP? Why do we have to be the ones who are finishing this? Why? Why, I say? They do their homework too, which is to push the government's work. I'm the only one who moves them... of course, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But look, there's a clear difference, that the People's Parliamentary Group is supporting the Government of the Union, which does a great job and makes many initiatives without any need for us to push anything, but it's the work of the opposition. But to what I am going to, to what I am going to clearly — and I pray you in this sense to reconsider your position from the point of view of the En Marea Parliamentary Group — is that this is an initiative that has transcendence, which mainly affects non-EU Greeks and Greeks, and what you do in the case that I previously commented on, which is a 500,000 euro heritage, but we could do the numbers with a much smaller heritage, it is to save 100,000 euros; they now pay 106,000 euros, and in many cases they pay 6,000, and they don't pay anything. [[Murmurs.]] And you know what? The most important thing... for within this 2% are precisely these Greeks and Greeks — not the rich and all this history — who are very badly taxed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The most important thing is that many of these people are not getting money from relatives here, from Galicia, precisely because of the tax cost. And we're asking to eliminate that tax cost so we can help people who are experiencing difficulties in those countries. [[Murmurs.]] I, really, today, in this sense, with some of the exhibitions that you've been talking about here, instead of really collecting this, feel like we're not moving to Galician society what we really have to do, and greet me a little bit for all the boys up there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u232	Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u233	We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Don Patricia Vilán. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block is accepted and the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Moreira, what do you want the word for? Give Mr. Moreira a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u234	Yes, Mr. President. It is to request the separate vote of the GNP with the original wording submitted by the proposed party and separately the amendment accepted, the amendment tabled by the BNG and accepted by the proposed group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u235	Don't you accept Mrs Vilan?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u236	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u237	Then you have to vote for it as it is. We vote like... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, sorry, what happened? [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. So, it's inflated with the accepted addition amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] We're voting. We're voting. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the labor claims of the union representatives of the staff of the Galician Justice Administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u238	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luís Bará. Nothing was accepted, no amendments or a point vote either. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, what do you want the word for, Mr. Fernández Prado? [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Give your voice to the scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u239	It was to ask again for a point of order. If possible, the vote on points 1, 2 and 3. And if possible, even the first...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u240	He already denied the biggest one yesterday, which he couldn't be. Thank you. We vote like you are. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in relation to the management of AP-9 before the Spanish Government, the defence of the interests of its users and the fulfilment of parliamentary agreements. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 37; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u241	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, through Mr Francisco Casal. There are no amendments, there is a self-amendment. We vote. Voting of the proposal by G.P. de En Marea, on the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the mining surveys that are being carried out in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino as long as it does not guarantee the viability of the water resources that supply the area and obtains the corresponding authorization of the Galician Waters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u242	We now vote for the En Marea Parliamentary Group through Mr David Rodríguez. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Mrs. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the losses caused in the last campaign by the weather conditions and the bead of the chestnut in the production, processing and marketing of the chestnut. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u243	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group through Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the realization of possible changes in the public network of educational centres. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u244	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group through Mrs Paula Prado. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and six other Members, on the penalty of permanent revisable imprisonment introduced in the Spanish legal system by Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 37; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u245	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. They got into a transaction. Do you want to read it, Mrs. Presas? Read, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u246	The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to demand that the Central Government have an equalization of tariff policies and arrangements throughout the Greek territory in order to avoid the current and obvious situation of discrimination taking place according to the place of residence of the Greeks and the Greeks. 2. To request the Central Government to extend the hourly frequencies from Ourense to improve communication with Compostela and La Coruña. 3. Reform the terms and conditions of the transport vouchers bonus plus card, plus card plus 10 and plus card plus 10 students, to increase the period of use that runs from the date of the first formalization of the reservation, so that it can be used longer than at present. 4. Enlarge the hourly frequency of the Ourense-Santiago region line to improve mobility among intermediate populations according to demand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u247	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the existing needs and the necessary improvements in rail transport between Ourense, Santiago de Compostela and La Coruña. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. The text on this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u248	We are now voting on the People's Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and five other Members, on the request by the Galician Union to the Government of the State of the Application, in cases of inheritances or prayers with residents in third countries (which do not belong to the EU or the EEA) in which the causer, the heir or the donor resides, or where an immovable object of prayer is found, of the same criterion as for residents in the European Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u249	I'm going to read an institutional statement that makes me, according to the groups, which consists of the following: "The Galician Parliament adds to the celebration of the Middle Ages in Galicia on 7 February, which recalls the exit to the street of the first issue of Uncle Marcos d’A Portela on 7 February 1876. The historic Orensa publication was the first written in English in its entirety. Subtitled Parrafeos with the Greek people, and driven by Valentín Lamas Carvajal, he achieved a remarkable success, selling 4,000 copies in a community that then had high levels of illiteracy. The writer and editor of the city of Burgas collected in the publication the flag erected by Rosalía de Castro in Galician songs, joined in the defense and claim of popular culture and expressed the daily feelings of the Galician society, especially of the humblest people. With a lot of humor, critical sense and irony, Valentín Lamas knew how to connect perfectly to the main concerns of the rural world. On the pages of O Uncle Marcos da Portela protested against hot themes of the moment such as the indentation of emigration, the high tax burden — the so-called mistakes — the delay of agriculture, the forums, the caciquism, corruption, the bad communications and the weakness of industrialization. In the immediate years, Uncle Marcos was given eight other publications written also in English: The Foliada, The Galician, The Galician, The Galician, The Catuxa Aunt, The Burgas, The Labrego and The Monteira. All this journalistic movement spread the Rejudice—which on the literary ground led Rosalía de Castro, Manuel Curros Enríquez and Eduardo Pondal—in the most immediate and popular realm. From public authorities we must contribute to the institutional recognition of those pioneering initiatives that seek to raise awareness of the country's problems and reflect on the search for solutions. Since the knowledge and demand of this long tradition of journalism in our own language, we believe that February 7th, Day of the Middle Ages in Galicia, is a good opportunity to visualize the media that uses the Greek language and focuses on the reality of the country. By supporting them, we will be moving forward on the road of commitment to our reality and pride for the very beginning of the Resurrection. For all this, we ask the whole civil society to join this commemoration. Santiago de Compostela, February 7, 2018 Thank you very much. [[Assentment.]] We continue with the agenda, point five, interpellations. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to access to public employment for persons with intellectual disabilities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u250	Mrs. Blanco has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u251	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my speech, I have to welcome today the representatives of Fademga, Autismo Galicia and Down Galicia, who accompany us to follow this inquiry. And take advantage, too, to thank them and bless them for the work you are doing in favor of the integration and non-discrimination of people with intellectual disabilities. Welcome too, Counselor. And I am convinced that you will agree with me that incorporation into the world of people with disabilities contributes to social progress, that it brings them enormous personal satisfaction, that it contributes to improving their self-esteem, too, and that ultimately contributes to the integration of the whole society. Well, unfortunately, there are currently enormous difficulties in accessing any job, but it is true that for people with disabilities this access is multiplied by two. And if we talk about people with intellectual disabilities, we could say it quadrupled, even. The report on the employment of people with disabilities, published by the INE — the last one, is that it seems to us, from the Socialist Group, that the data are very worrying, that they are even ashamed and are not own of a democratic society of the twenty-first century. The data tell us that the rate of activity among people with disabilities in Galicia is the lowest in all autonomous communities, we have 27.8%, 21% less assets than the state average. And if we go to data from the Labour Market Observatory, the ONCE Foundation — by putting another report — given the level of studies of the population with disabilities in Galicia, we note that 11.6% has achieved higher education, and it is 3.7 points below the average of the population in Spain, and it is more than 23 points from the population with no disabilities. The average gross wage is, in the case of persons with disabilities, less than EUR 3,500. And the figures that refer in particular to intellectual disability, because they are even worse than occupation, wages and activity rate. So access to the labour market — from the Socialist Group, and I am convinced that you agree with us too — is one of the main ways of social integration, one of the greatest aspirations, perhaps, of this collective, but at the same time a great frustration that they have. One of the difficulties seen in recent times is the inadequate practice put in place by Law 39/2006, the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependent persons. Although this law is not envisaged as such, it is true that the attendance of dependent care services is being prioritized and that it is relegating to the promotion of personal autonomy, and especially in cases where they need special attention; in this case, we refer to people with intellectual disabilities. This attention is a necessary assumption to achieve the goal of improving all aspects of the lives of these people, including, of course, access to the labour market. The budgetary restrictions over recent years have also affected the insufficiency of employment promotion measures, including the insufficiency of social programmes or media, including certain non-compliances with subjective rights that are collected by the current legislation. We set an example, which is what entities tell us on many occasions, which are common to the negatives or restrictions of personal assistants for university study. Something that we consider to be very important and that is already an orientation towards the discrimination that they will suffer later on in the labour market itself. If we start with the obligation referred to in Article 17 of the Staff Regulations, it makes it clear that companies of more than 50 workers have to reserve a quota of at least 2% for people with disabilities. And if we start to analyze this reality, the truth is that this measure is not being complied with, and the worst of all is that from the Socialist Group we don't see an effort by the Autonomic Administration either, which should be done in connection with the Labour Inspectorate itself to correct this breach. Not only to sanction those cases in which it is being breached, but also to perform a certain exercise as an exemplizing measure for procurement through the Public Administration, refusing to hire those companies that do not comply with this quota. And we mean, when I talk about public administration, Mr. Counsellor, the whole public administration; we also include commercial public societies, business public entities, that is, the whole of the government of Galicia. The difficulties, therefore, are many, and it is true that they have taken steps in recent years. We recognize the role of special employment centres or occupational centres, but it is true that we consider this to be a job, to some extent, that it is segregating, that it is not contributing, either, to the incorporation into the ordinary labour market itself, and that in addition to these centres the conditions of persons with disabilities who are working there are quite precarious, even the Employment Centre Convention itself is much lower than the sectoral agreements. And we all recognize this role, but — I repeat — there is a lot to do and a lot to control in these special employment centres, which in recent years have certainly received considerable support from the German Government. As far as public employment services are concerned, the fact is that much remains to be done, their participation in recruitment of persons with disabilities is practically anecdotal. There is much to be done, too, with regard to training; the lack of effectiveness of programmes and training courses for people with intellectual disabilities has no results in their incorporation into the labour market or in the promotion. One distorting aspect, too, is that there are many occasions when these people have to choose between economic benefits and the labour market. They do this because of the precariousness of wages, the scarcity of jobs and the doubts and insecurity that they are facing because of the fear that once they lose that job, they stop receiving those benefits. Counselor, we're worried about a new one we knew a week ago about the help cut from Galician Council to the Down Galician Association. It's more than 176,000 euros, which are supposed to stop hiring 10 professionals for work integration and school inclusion services. I understand that this is not his matter, it is true that it is a cross-sectional matter, but also that the Government answers jointly on these issues. And we'd like an explanation about it. I have very little time and these last few minutes I'm going to devote myself to public employment, one of the main job demands of these collectives for people with intellectual disabilities. In most cases there are difficulties accessing these oppositions, and even participating in selective processes. It is true that there is a vigorous legislation that marks that 7% of vacancies and is incorporated -- I have to say -- through the state law of that amendment, which also comes from the convention itself, which is an incorporation into the state legislation that has developed here with the reform of public law. But it is also true that there are many things left to do and many legislative advances in this matter, that Galicia is not in vain despite the publicity and propaganda of these oppositions, which I know you will tell us, too, with those reservations. It is true that there have been other autonomous communities that have already done so before and also that the communities themselves which are now governed by socialists — such as Extreme or Andalusia — are taking steps further. When we talk about steps beyond that, we mean that we have to incorporate, too, temporary recruitment. It is not now included in public employment offers, and posts are not counted for the purpose of establishing those quantities. No exclusive recruitment lists are provided for persons with intellectual disabilities to cover the posts reserved for those who pass those tests and do not get the place. Just as the criteria — which are not clear either — for drawing up and managing the lists of inter-internity and substitution, which are not there either, and which we have been asking for, like the entities, for a long time. I understand, Mr Counsellor, that although a part of my intervention speaks of the labour market at general level — that I am convinced that you can answer me without any kind of problem — because also in the part of public employment if we would like to know what progress the Government has planned for this X legislation, beyond — I repeat — of that call for opposition, those OPE and this very amendment of the Public Service Act, which, if I am not mistaken, arrived in 2015; and that other questions has foreseen the Government of Greece to put in motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome, too, to the representatives of the various associations and entities working in favour of people with disabilities in general, and intellectual disabilities in particular. You ask me... I'm going to stick a little bit to the first intervention in the concrete area of more responsibility for my person, like it's for public employment. The answer, I think, is that I have already given it, also, in this Parliament on several occasions and that it is known, therefore, and very clearly. Just as you launched it, we do want to promote inclusive public employment, because we have no other objective than that people with intellectual disabilities have more and more opportunities to get into work, and in this case in the Autonomic Administration; that is, in the important public services we provide to our citizens. We've taken the first step and we're going to continue this path. I want to remind you that the current government has been the first to push a public employment call for this collective, it is a fact of what we feel particularly proud of. In addition, we did it in the hands of associations and entities that work in favour of this kind of person. I again take advantage of the opportunity I have in this House to reiterate our gratitude for your cooperation. In a tax way, I say I'm our best company. I'll tell you about the steps taken: in February 2016 we made the call for the coverage of 6 job vacancies in the order category, of group V, of fixed staff of the Junta de Galicia, reserved to be covered by people who believe in intellectual disabilities. It was an independent summons, convinced that the specific characteristics of the collective to which it was addressed would be the most comfortable. For the development of the process — the margin of the means available to the Administration and the contacts established with other public administrations that were developing similar projects — we invite social agents working in the field of intellectual disability to participate. We signed an agreement with both Down Galicia and Fademga to carry out this process in the best conditions. The actions and obligations provided for in that text include two fundamental axes that have also been brought forward by you, except that this is already from 2015 and 2016. On the one hand, the training of people with intellectual disabilities and, on the other, support for insertion and adaptation to their work environment. Last year — as it is also known — the examinations of this call were carried out in Santiago and the system chosen was the opposition contest. I have to tell you, with satisfaction, that the answer has largely exceeded our expectations, so we have seen ourselves overwhelmed with high competition and participation. 429 people were admitted, of which they presented to the first exercise 352, i.e. 82%; much higher than the average of the selective processes, which is about 30 points below the percentage I just marked. An exceptional response, therefore, confirmed that this social demand existed. Of the 352 people presented, a total of 309 were fit, which means 88% and demonstrates the high level of preparation of participants in this selective process. They must have presented themselves to the second exercise, which was the exercise of Greek, because they had not believed Celga 2, a total of 120 people, and they finally introduced 106. After the end of the opposition phase, a total of 295 people were fit, equivalent to 84% of the total people presented to the first test. In relation to the stage of the contest, the merits accredited by the aspirants who exceed what they previously commented on, the opposition phase will be taken into account. The merits can be valued in the light of professional experience, academic titration that they believe and the educational activities that they contain, of course, are related and coincided with the tasks and functions of the job they opt for. At this moment the Galician Union responds to the objective in the competition phase of awarding labour effort, but also the previous formative developed by aspiring people. We have now published the provisional barrem and are waiting for the court itself to publish the definitive barrem corresponding to the merits alleged by the aspirants. And I can tell you that we expect the selected people to be able to take possession of their squares as regular staff of the Galician Union in the first quarter of the year. They'll be the first people to do it in Galicia. For those who do not now reach a square, we will immediately convene another selective process in which they will have a new opportunity to access a public job and make use of the effort made. Thus, the public employment offer for the years 2016 and 2017 is pending to convene, and we will do so cumulatively to the following selective processes for free access for people with intellectual disabilities: in the auxiliary body, subgroup C2, a total of 10 squares, and in the professional group of junior staff a total of 24 squares, to which will have to add the squares to be convened in the Galician Health Service. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Government of the Union not only meets the legal reserve of employment markets for people with disabilities in general, but also with intellectual disabilities, and we try, as always, to improve those reservations and precautions that you indicated, too, quite well in your first intervention. These are the data; in the offer of entry squares in the bodies, scales and specialties of the Special General Administration, the categories of workers also for the year 2016 include a total of 46 squares for people with general disabilities, and 16 open access squares should also be added to be covered by people who believe in intellectual disability. In percentage terms, the reserve rate of public job offer squares for people with disabilities reaches a percentage in the Galician Union of 8.68%; 7% of what you referred to as legal reserve, and also when we disaggregate this percentage of 2.24% of jobs reserved for people who believe in intellectual disability. Therefore, also above 2% of what was referred to. I also remind you — also in advance for you, but again I think it's also a matter of a little temporary advance — that the fifth paragraph of the February 25, 2016 order also enables a list of aspirants for temporary recruitment. Because, perfectly, what we have is to close the circle. There is differentiated access to an equality plan, which is not the same identity, which is a place in the autonomic public sector in this case and, on the other hand, that is to take advantage of all that effort and experience of people to conform these lists of applicants to temporary recruitment. Thus, we established that the score of the aspiring candidates who approve the first exercise, but do not exceed the selective process, will have merit consideration and will therefore be able to play transiently placed in the same professional category. At this point, we assure you that the management model of the temporary recruitment lists is being studied. We are analysing the projects set by other administrations and we will consult — as we have always done since the beginning of this process — the most representative organizations of the collective of intellectual disabilities to try to establish a system that ensures both the coverage of the needs of the administration and, above all, the specifics of the collective to which it is addressed. Your Honor, I insist that this is just the first step and we will continue this way to respond to a social demand through the creation of an inclusive and stable public job. People with intellectual disabilities will therefore have new opportunities to work with us in public services in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u254	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u255	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, I understand that after all the opposition to people, the people who acquire the status of official, in this case take possession of their place. You told him here today as if it were a novelty. The fact is that the process of this opposition, which we recognize — and we say at the moment — is a significant step forward, has come since it was published step by step, and today what this group, the Socialist Group, asked for were specific issues. You're telling me you're studying the recruitment lists. But there are autonomous communities that are no longer studying it, they are putting it into action. It seems right to us, it seems positive to us that they study other alternatives and other regulations; I refer it to what the socialist governments are doing in Cantabria and Andalusia, which I believe are legislative amendments that are indeed vanguardists in this matter, and that the Greek Government imitates those lists of interins that will put in place. And as regards that this is the first exclusive call, that is true, but it must also be said and put to value that Galicia was the last of all communities to take action in this regard, it is true, and when they were taken, they took, we were in favour, but by then we were in favour of, but that by then in Castile-A Mancha in 2002, in Extreme in 2003, in Andalusia in 2006, in Madrid in 2006, also in Navarra in 2008 and in Catalonia in 2009, similar measures had been taken, without being — I repeat — exclusive oppositions, but rather measures for the integration of the public function of people with intellectual disabilities. It is true that Galicia is late. With regard to the data, of the very bad employment and occupation data of persons with disabilities, you did not make any reflection on it, nor why the activity rate in Galicia is 18% lower in 2016, was lower in 2016 than in 2009. There is a problem, if we have, of course, a much lower rate of activity than the rest of Spain, if the rate of activity has been decreasing since 2009, the conclusion that we find that disability and job promotion policies are failing, will agree with me as well. And the question is, the German Government will ask about it. Will you stay with your arms crossed or will you do something and budget employment policies for people with disabilities who are realistic? The truth is that you always answer that you're getting ready, that you're working on it, and to me it reminds me of what they told us to run to, that's slow training to run fast. I mean, if that were the case, we would agree, but the reality is that Galicia is not running fast in terms of promoting employment for people with disabilities and that more budgets are needed and a government that takes consciousness — I repeat — of INE data, which are very serious. You did not make any reference, in this respect - understanding that you will do so in the second intervention - from the cut in aid to the Down collective. Your clippings, your budget cuts, have an impact on people's daily lives, and in this case what you're going to assume is that users who were attending 2 days a week are now going to be 1 day a week. This is going to cause the programs themselves to suffer from delays and the targets are much harder to accomplish than they are in reality. What we ask you to do, Mr Counsellor, is to speed up, of course, these recruitment lists that have been promised for a long time and, by way of colloquially speaking, that the batteries are placed, once and for all, for job promotion and the labour market, and that, of course, they are tightening businesses too and that, as far as possible, the autonomous administration is restrictive with those companies that do not comply with the current regulations. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u257	Thank you again, Mr. President. In particular, you have already heard me speak from this very forum which is a theme that, even in personal terms — if it is true that I am not here alone as in personal terms — I am very glad to speak. It is enough to remember that my first meeting as an adviser was with the Galician Council of Disability, among them also with intellectual disability, because I do believe that there is a part of preaching with words to preach with facts. Since that, in general, I agree with you that maybe we're a little late, but not with less intensity. It is a very special process that we are doing with access to public employment and therefore we must look at what is being done in other communities, not at all, either; we are not the last of them. But we must learn quickly, with better acceleration, and always learn from the hand of those who represent the interests of this kind of people with intellectual disabilities, and so it was so important the agreement we signed at the moment, that it has to do with training and also with accompanying, but also with the design of everything that is the list system. So, for two years now, this whole situation has been contemplated, and believe me when I tell you that in no more than a month and a half, two months, you'll look at these kinds of accomplishments that will already put us at the head of what is happening in Spain. Why? Because in essence we think this is an act of normality. This takeover in public employment should have been normal and normal. It's incredible that we're talking about these things here, right? As a hundred years ago, unfortunately, we were also talking about what universal suffrage could be for women in the United Kingdom. I believe that in these subjects of normality what we all want — and I agree with you, and your group, which you represent, I suppose you will agree — is the value of people, that as a personal realization and social realization they have a quality job, in this public case. Therefore, my gratitude, first of all, as I said to the organizations that have accompanied us so much in this kind of problem. But it's also of the few moments when you feel proud to be here, because these very associations are the ones that have written thanks to the administration itself of such and how we are taking all these kinds of processes. So for this one who talks to them, it's very happy, too, that the people who know me outside of the San Caetano areas stop me on the street a few times to thank me some families. So I think we're going in the right direction and it's an act of normality. What is strange to me is that the tone that you expressed here — which I really agree, as I think is quite normal with most of the House — did not manifest something similar in what was the last debate in the state of Autonomy, when there was a proposal that we then approved, that if I thank you for the position that BNG had at the time, that your group did not make its own. We really don't understand how at that time, that if you were talking about the same thing you're moving, the BNG was who gave a positive vote, even this PP government, while you didn't. More importantly, the most important thing is that this process, which is a very peculiar process, has an end within very little, which will be completed with the lists. Therefore, quality work both stable and quality work in which different substitutions or interinstances can be. And most importantly, right away, based on our experience, we have therefore called together from the years together from 2016 to 2017, which gives us these thirty and so many squares of what the General Administration is, 34 plus 50 in the Sergas field. So we're already talking about 90 squares in a direct and stable way, both in the group that can be identified as subordinate staff and for the group, for the first time, of what is, commonly, called administrative assistant. Obviously, all of this has also been reflected in a general way, as you referred to, in our strategic plan as a fundamental axis when we talked about the employability of all the collectives within the modernization of the Greek economy, but especially for those with disabilities, especially for people with intellectual disabilities. Not long ago, two months, three months, I don't believe anymore, from this very forum I invited the different administrations of Galicia — based on our experience, the experience of other administrations, for which I also offered collaboration and support, taking into account this recent experience – we all become aware of this act of normality to this inclusive public employment, but there are already the first findings. There's already a council that doesn't go directly, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u259	..that already begins to consider these kinds of issues. And, above all, there is a first finding and it is here in this very Galician Parliament, which you already consider in your job offers. My thanks go to the people who are part and who make these decisions in the significant job offers made by this Parliament in Galicia. I think this is the way we should walk all administrations. So the first steps are ending, I think we're very well-accompanied by the hands of the associations. We're a little late and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u261	Too bad others didn't do it when they had responsibilities, but we'll continue, I think among all of us, in what we have more common than in what we have m differently. Thank you very much and commend you, especially for those who are then at work, both oral and, above all, effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u262	Thank you very much. Interpellation by D. Eva Solla Fernández, from G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to Sergas' non-structural waiting lists
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u263	Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u264	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I hope you use your word today to answer this speech, not how it happened yesterday. Today we have a rather serious and obvious problem which, in some ways, also has to do with the debate we had here yesterday with regard to the counter-reform of the Galician Health Act. The situation on the waiting lists in our country is, in fact, quite worrisome. We have two obvious problems on this subject, but I will try to explain them, even though it is a subject which, of course, we have discussed on many occasions both in the Committee on Health and in this plenary. One is related to the elimination of public health professionals and the Health Insurance Act. And the other, evidently related to the previous one, is the opacity compared to the proportion of the data. First of all, you know that the staff situation is not, nor is it by any chance, that you have moved with that increase of professionals, which, of course, in the last few days, is due to the dirty contracts for hours and days, which are done to meet the needs of services, but which do not involve overall coverage, an increase of better quality of work, an increase of professionals at the disposal of the public health system, or, of course, the absurdity of intervention — if I may — of the president this morning saying that in recent years professionals have increased, when what happens is precisely the opposite, of the problems arising from the situation, essentially in the primary care of our country, but also in the specialized care. And I have to remember that only this morning, indignant people when I heard Mr. President, I wrote that I had been waiting for ten days in his health center, as it might be at Salceda de Caselas, or that this morning I had a scheduled appointment to intervene, but it turns out that there was no bed and they sent her home. Yesterday I met the other person in that situation, it is a reality and obviously derives from their poor planning and lack of sufficient professionals since they decided to apply the restrictions indicated by the Central Government and by Europe and the depreciation of squares accordingly in the public health system. That's a reality. We have brought on multiple occasions proposals to solve the emergency situation, I said yesterday afternoon, too, and they are based, in addition, on strengthening both specialized care and primary care in our country. But there is a fairly obvious problem of opacity and management: one, of opacity, obviously related to the Health Insurance Act, which not only - we are now going to talk about this aspect - you have approved this rule to transfer patients from public to private, but there was a precept - and we discussed it, I was rapporteur of that law - that reduced information that you had to provide. It's turned out to be quarterly. And you didn't do anything, you chose precisely the months in which waiting lists were always lower, which were the months of December and June. I mean, data was always worse in September, obviously less attention is being paid or there's a reduction in summer months, and obviously you haven't chosen those months. So it deepens in opacity, they don't provide data, and that's a problem that stems from their law of the year 2013. But there's a very relevant aspect that we've reported, and I bring it back here today, and centralizes part of this interpellation, Counsellor. We want them to tell us when they plan to make public the non-structural waiting lists, when they're going to comply with Rule 9 of the Rules of this House, Counsellor, and when they're going to comply with the law, we're waiting. You violate the Rules of Procedure of this House, disregard the Statute of Self-Government, and deny Members and Members the information you requested when they were opposed. Article 16, in addition to the Health Act, regulatory and organisational guarantees, point 5: The health authorities shall provide public information in each area on quality indicators of services, programme coverage, waiting lists and efficiency of the processes of the public health system in Galicia. There is no kind of report on the efficiency of the different EOXI, we have no financial data -- as I recall yesterday -- we have no report on the operation of the services and, of course, they do not provide the waiting lists that we are claiming. It is true, because you have sent Mr Aboal to answer me to a Health Commission, that the decree regulating the publication of waiting lists by the Ministry of Central Government Health does not equip them, does not give them the obligation to publish non-structural waiting lists, but does they have an obligation to answer the requests for information from Members and Members. And there's something very relevant, at least for me, which is ethics also in politics. And what can't be, when you don't govern, you ask for data that doesn't provide when you rule. That's right, and you can move what you think about the two-party government and the governments, of course, earlier, which are of their own color. But if you didn't feel good about it then, you should be able to post those lists now. And at least if they do not want to be published, they reply to Article 9, the requests for information from Members and Members of this House. I remind you that it is your duty, and I would like you to answer the questions of this interpellation. I want the data on the non-structural waiting lists, not that they explain to me the decree, as happened in the Health Committee, a request for information — I remind you, if you do not have very fresh Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure — are the specific data requested by the honourable Member or the honourable Member in question. There's another obvious problem, related to the waiting lists and the management that you're waiting for, and it's precisely that law of guarantees of health benefits and that transvasion of the public to the private. I was talking yesterday about that decree that you published and that facilitates several very relevant aspects within our public system. The first, the loss of warranty. We knew it in 2013, now you put it in a decree; that is, if I don't want to go to private and you call me to offer me a private, I lose the right to health care in time and form, I lose the guarantee. That's how his decree puts it, and so put it into the law of 2013. It's very serious. It's very serious because it's a covert privatization, it's quite obvious. But in addition, there was one aspect, which we already criticized in that presentation, which was precisely that when we exceeded those maximum waiting times that you didn't — not even makeup official data — you could go to a private person, and all of them — because at the end the public budget is all and all of the Greeks and Greeks — we had to pay for that assistance in private. But besides, now, you're doing something directly, and we know that because we have companions and colleagues who work in the different EOXI. When you get over 60 days for surgery, 45 days for testing, in many places you call the person directly and recommend a private person or recommend them to go to private because the Galician Health Service will pay you that attention. That's very serious and it's happening, and you're engaging in a covert privatization of the public health system. It was translated into the 2013 debate and it is quite outrageous to see how the decree you published, which came into force on January 10 of this same year, ratified and implemented — even more — that privatization. You don't like to talk about it, it bothers you, but the reality is, and the reality is, it's getting more and more privatised. And the reality is that we have to hear things like the ones Mr. President said, that before the collapses and before the need for beds, it was best to put more beds inside the rooms that already existed, while you keep the plants closed or the rooms closed in some centers because they decide on the basis of not knowing what medical or scientific criteria, obviously absent, a liberal management criterion. That's right, in private, all the rooms and the beds are occupied. Of course, the benefit of those private companies that manage health, which you transfer to them, is also done at the expense of workers and workers, and surely much would have to say here to you from this strike that you have just announced the unions in the province of Pontevedra because of the precariousness of those workers and workers who are also of private health pay in their flesh the mismanagement of the Health Council. This is absolutely real. I'll be done by now. And so, Counselor, we'd like you to clarify to us today that you intend to do the Government to reduce the waiting lists. I don't want you to move the data itself, I've seen them, you can obviously comment on them, it's your obligation, I see how it increases in that concerted agreement in which you have armoured a contract for ten years, as is the case with Povervisa, something quite regrettable, and I see, too, how some sanitary areas are increased. But I repeat, Mr. Counsellor, the data is not the whole, the data is not the real, and therefore they are not intended to give a real answer to what is the whole of the Galician Health Service. You know that — the figures that manage trade union centres, of course, there are people working in the Admission Service and in all specialized care services — it is estimated that the actual data could duplicate, or even triple, the data you publish on the waiting list. And yet -- and I'm done now -- with your makeup on the waiting lists, you don't even comply with the data, with the maximum deadlines of your law. And they don't do them because the goal is to move patients to private. Nothing else, for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u266	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Solla, what bothers me is that you say falsehoods, that's what bothers me, I don't mind talking about the health issue, but what bothers me are the falsehoods that you — who talks about ethics and talks about many things — says, talks about things without any proof of anything, absolutely nothing. And I'm also upset to have you do an interpellation and then talk about what you want less than the interpellation. So he spent half a time talking about things that aren't on the stand. I'm going to be strict and I'm going to talk about the interrogation. The Health Council provides information on the waiting lists by complying with the basic regulations established by Royal Decree 605/2003 of 23 May, so the measures for the homogeneous treatment of the information on the waiting lists in the National Health System, and its partial amendment by Royal Decree 1039/2011, are laid down the framework criteria for ensuring a time for access to the health services of the National Health System. We also comply with the system established in the order of 19 May 2003 that normalizes the system of information and control of the planned demand for activity of hospitalization, surgery and rooms of the hospitals network of the Galician Health Service, as well as in the order of 13 July 2004, so that the system of information and control of the demand for planned activity and external medical consultations in the Sergas hospital network is normalized. The actual decree and autonomous orders define the record of patients waiting, as well as the classification of patients included in it. Thus, the registry included all pending patients in the provision of non-emergency prescribed care, medical care indicated by an optional and accepted patient and for which the use of a patient's pending remedy is planned, both own and concerted. The Galego Health Service ensures, through its information systems and its actions, the requirements laid down by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which establishes the characteristics and contents of general information on patient waiting times, ensuring the comparability of data with other autonomous communities set out in Article 4 of Royal Decree 605/2003, in which information on the structural waiting lists must be published on a semi-annual basis. And so Sergas is doing, publishing the information on his website. In fact, the Ministry published just four weeks ago the June 2017 ones, when we do it logically, in later days, both in June and December, to provide transparent information to the Greek population. In addition, as set out in Royal Decree 605/2003, Sergas users have access to the custom dating and waiting lists information system, which allows, by ensuring data confidentiality, access to the custom query on their surgical, query and test waiting data. On the website, as I say, but also for several months through the health platform, where with an electronic DNI or with a key key, anyone can access their entire clinical history, including — as I say — this type of data. As far as non-structural waiting lists are concerned, it should be borne in mind that they include transiently non- programmable patients; that is, patients who voluntarily choose to postpone their surgical intervention due to personal circumstances, or those who cannot operate for medical reasons that discourage their intervention, as a patient who is on the waiting list for a pathology, for example, traumatology, but has an infectious process that makes the intervention uncomfortable at that time, and follows, logically, counting on all rights, pending the resolution of this problem. In these patients there is no management measure to be done, and it is a highly floating bag; it can be reached in some centers at more than 70% of this non-structural waiting list. With regard to the patients on the non-structural waiting list who offered the operation and refused it, because they preferred to choose the hospital, of course, these patients continue to have surgical indication and should be operated according to their seniority time. They don't lose any rights. We're operating both on tomorrow's and afternoon's programming. But in addition, in Galicia we have Decree 105/2017 of 28 September, so the system of guarantees of maximum periods of access to public health benefits is regulated; curiously, something that they are attacking since the opposition, when it is a guarantee more, in addition, that they do not have in other autonomous communities. And what you're looking for is to tell you for the first time a certification, an individual warranty, to each of these pathologies listed on your list. This normative text, which complements the development of Law 12/2013, of 9 December, of guarantees of health benefits, is in addition to decrees regulating the right to second medical opinion, the free choice of professionals and hospital center and to which the operation of the Galego Register of Previous Instructions is regulated. Through this decree, which entered into force on January 10, 2018, they can benefit between 15,000 and 20,000 people annually. The maximum hours of scheduled and non-urgent hospital health care, 60 natural days for surgical interventions, 45 days for first external consultations and 45 days also for first diagnostic or therapeutic tests, are thus guaranteed. After all these deadlines, the patient may choose to attend another accredited hospital in Galicia, preferably in other hospitals in the Sergas network. And in case, of course, it doesn't happen, it could appeal, because it's an individual guarantee of the public system of Galicia, to a concerted centre. This brings together a new commitment from the Galego Health Service to patients, as it passes from a global management of waiting times to priorities for other diseases to an individual commitment by pathology. The selection of these procedures is carried out taking into account the severity of the pathologies, the effectiveness and the opportunity of health care and the priority protocols, contrasted with scientific societies. 108 surgical pathologies, 7 rapid pathways of cancer, and more than 26 diagnostic tests are now guaranteed. Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health, evidence and emphasis on the public character of the system and establishes, moreover, the so-called Galician Health System, where the meeting takes place between the complementarity of the public system and the private sector of health care; the private sector in which the centres are included, establishing the services of private utility, such as hospitals, clinics, pharmacy, health transport, laboratories and other private providers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been working on policies that allow us to improve the waiting lists — by the way, among the best in Spain — and giving priority to gravity. We maintain our firm commitment to speed up the assistance of empowering users and users with decision-making capacity and ultimately to improve the service we provide globally to our population, increasing their level of satisfaction in parallel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u267	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u268	Counsellor, my entire intervention has to do with the status of waiting lists, why waiting lists are generated and why people are waiting for years—they are!—in my health area, in Vigo, to be intervened with traumatology; something you don't recognize in any kind of official data. I was moving you yesterday as you had this year for a simple ultrasound, that half a year for a magnetic resonance imaging in some areas... that, counsellor, you don't appear on your waiting lists; and, therefore, there are missing data, real data, data from people who suffer and are waiting. However, to complain so much about my intervention, you didn't answer the questions of the inquiry. So, as you've got them in writing, I understand that you've read the inquiry and that, therefore, you're going to answer on the second turn. Look, Mr. Padre, reality is written in its own standard, of course, in that decree. And it remains very clear, it is quite clear, in the wording as if the guarantee is lost: article 9 of the decree, causes of loss of guarantee, "...that they do not opt within the time limit set by any of the alternatives offered by the Galician Health Service, in accordance with article 12.3 of this decree", or "...that they refuse the alternative centre or centres offered for the realization of the assistance". That, in practice, what is it? It's a pervert! When you put that in the standard, you say here it comes from a public center. The reality is not that, the reality is that they call to go to a concert, or in many cases to recommend that they go to a private one. I think it's a barbarity! It's happening! And there's already data on how many people are moving to those concerteds. I would like to have the official data, but you do not comply with the Rules of Procedure of this House, and I think it is a legal obligation to comply with the rules for all of you; not only for the Members of the opposition, but also for you. Look, Mr. Almuño, it's not a ballad to leave your friends at the employer's office by recommending you in September that they had a great proposal, a fantastic proposal, to finish the waiting lists. They proposed a model of public-private cooperation that would allow the end of the year to end with these waiting lists and that it would only cost us 88 million euros. A fantastic thing!, a news from September! All right, you issued that decree to make effective the employers' wishes. They are not only shielded in health budgets — every year more private budget than you say — but they want more and, of course, you regulate to make it easier for them. Look, I've already transferred you here the accounts from the Board of Auditors. And what do they say about the increase in the budget going to private? The concert is already, in our public health system, a structural element; not conjunctural, es-tru-tru-ral, Mr. Almuña! That's why they did the smallest Vigo hospital, because we had to keep securing the Povervisa business. But, look, from 2016 to 2017, only direct private health concerts, which are private; they are businesses, increased by 4 million euros. From 2017 to 2018, in this exercise — we discussed it a few months ago — 2 million euros. But it's really half the health budget of the Galego Health Service, the overall health council, is dedicated to the private company, and I moved it yesterday. And there's a obvious problem: you cut in health prevention and promotion by 24.23% in less nominal terms — since 2009 it hasn't passed a decade — and in 412B, the primary care programme — where professionals cut most — is 28.41% less in real terms. If you want the names, if you want the paper, if you want to do the rest, 19%, Counselor. And so from there come the problems, from there comes the primary care list waiting, because 10 days is a wait. A week for an ordinary consultation is a wait, it's a violation of health rights and it facilitates emergency collapses. In specialized care, of course, you don't provide the data; and of course, it's normal for us to ask for it. Because you ask for data, ask for rigor, then give you the data!, and we'll talk to the data on the table and make a political assessment of whether your management is correct or not depending on the actual data. But you have to provide them. But for that, I pray you — because I'm no longer here — to answer once and for all the questions of interpellation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this interrogation, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. As much as it repeats facts that are not true, Mrs Solla. He continues with primary care, with delays in primary care. Look, the other day there was an interview; they asked the president of the Galician Family Medicine Society, Mr. Sueiro, if there were waiting lists in primary. And, curiously, he said, "In my center, no." It's curious the answer, isn't it, of a person who is president of a scientific society — who is not at all doubtful of political affiliation — and who says that he is not at the center of it. I think the question is answered. And it also says the decrease in economic cost in investment in primary care. Chapter I and Chapter II — I believe that they are important within the functioning of primary care — have increased. Where did you go down the investment, or spending on primary care? In pharmacy recipes. I think that's not bad because we get better prices, we can increase the number of generics. I think that's what needs to be done, and so, in addition, the European Union gives us as a key to what primary care is and what health is. Therefore, data is collected without any foundation. Look, the waiting list has mechanisms and regulatory regulations for its common functioning throughout the national health system. And Galicia has always been ahead, giving much more information than all the communities give at the national level. What makes no sense is that we launch each of the communities to give data in an isolated way that is not comparable. What should be normal is that there must be access to information from all the Spanish population with data that are always comparable; and, as I say, Galicia gives them. What's wrong? That you don't like to admit that the waiting lists, that the delays we have in Galicia, are the best in Spain, because they're like that. They're compared, and in the last known data from the entire National Health System, we're the fourth community. So I think he doesn't like us saying that, but that's it, and then we have to say it. And he says, logically, that what we're talking about is always reducing waiting lists, and that if we're fourth, we'd want to do it even better. And how are we going to do that? 'Cause that's part of the question you say, 'how are we going to reduce it? Well, I keep working like we're doing. In 2017 we improved data on surgical activity, but also on queries and diagnostic tests. And what are we doing with these patients who initially refused one of the possibilities that I say Spanish-level regulations allow, which is to offer a concerted centre? Well, logically, what we're doing is periodically reviewing these medical delays to see if they can already be operated, and including them on the list for programming. And, of course, schedule all those who rejected the concerted centre. We are, as I said, following the criteria of antiquity and operating in tomorrow's surgeries and afternoon's surgeries. That's what I think we're achieving very important results. And, of course, our goal is not to derive from private, but to solve as many patients as possible and as little time as possible, with, of course, quality criteria. And he says, "Are you planning on giving the business to private health while he's doing cuts in the public?" He always says that our goal is to grow private. No, not for us. We didn't plan to increase the business. Friends, by the way, I choose them, don't tell me who I am. But, look, the health law we are currently reforming. It was done by the Bipartite, and in it, on page 137, article 89, says: "The mechanism of relations with the public health system of Galicia." "The private sector's collaboration with health care with the Galician public system will be implemented through different forms of service contract as defined in Article 74." And he speaks, as I said earlier, of it being complementary. But this said on the left when he ruled and made this law. We're not changing anything about this at all. [[Applause]] And, of course, in the concerted centres, we have less budget than in the Bipartite. We have fallen — it has been said this morning in the question to the President — clearly that investment, but they are all accredited centers, centres that logically have the necessary levels of quality. The important thing for us, of course, with all the measures taken, is to prioritize the freedom of choice of center at the time of intervention for those patients who wish to do so. Provide more rights for patients, even though you don't like them to have more rights than in other autonomous communities; we're going to go along. And, of course, we scrupulously respect the medical criteria. When you decide that a patient can't operate, which you think should not operate right now, we'll respect it. And we're going to give the patient freedom too; and, as I say, we're going to take all the measures necessary to do so. He told me yesterday that he wanted to talk about the rates of the health services he commented on. I don't think you know what it's about. But what I'm telling you is that we're valuing the rate change, you know what it is for? Well, to charge you with mortgages and insurance when we do business in our centers. If you don't want it and you'd rather we keep charging at a lower price, because that's an answer you should give. Of course, what I think is that you don't know data, you talk about talking; and we, meanwhile, will continue to give quality to our citizens with an improvement in health services every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u271	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u272	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the valuation carried out by the Government of Galicia of the investment planned in Galicia in the State Budget Project for 2017, the work and conclusions of the State Budget Follow-up Commission and the negotiating strategy that will follow with the Central Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u273	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u274	Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Vázquez, we've been legislated for years and a half, and we've really been worried about the Galician Nationalist Block, and we're worried not only about the management of the German Government but also about the political weight that we've seen that Galicia has in the state, which is getting smaller and smaller. And that's why we think it's worrying, because, with the prevailing political and economic model, it's the state that's taking up for itself much of the resources, not saying the vast majority. We saw that little political weight less than a year ago when the 2017 State budgets were approved, which you from Galicia applauded with the ears, when they actually came to make a big cut for our country; an unprecedented Galician discrimination that for the first time in more than a decade had an investment forecast of less than EUR 1 billion. It must be remembered that the decline in territorialized investment in Galicia was the second most intense of all the state in absolute terms and the third most intense in relative terms. And that came to be a loss of nothing more and nothing less than 442 million euros in investments for our country. A cut, from our point of view, absolutely unfair, and more in a moment of growth of the macroeconomic framework. An unfair cut also at a time when we must remember that we saw an increase in the collection, which also increased because the Greeks and the Greeks contributed, like anyone, with our taxes. But in return we saw how that did not have an equal effect on the distribution of budgets. They predict tax revenues of over 200,000 million euros, similar to the 2007 seizures prior to the crisis, and in such matters as this is where the tax and tax policy of the People's Party is really seen and their low impact on social policies, because while taxes in general and average incomes are increased, while they have been cut into services, social policies, because we see that, after that phase, there is no correction and therefore there is no recovery of policies as important to our country as social. On the contrary, we did see how the priorities of the Government of Madrid, the Government of Galician Union, which applauded with the ears, were others, as we saw how more than a third of the investments seized ministries like those of Defense, instead of others that we understood would be more necessary for our country. And the fact is, it has been found that more tax pressure for the majority of society was not intended for social redistribution, but to pay issues like a debt that never stopped increasing, particularly for the bank rescue. In short, a great cut, unfair, where our country, even though you are the biggest supporters of the deficit and you are always assuming of that, we see that you haven't reported anything in return, even more so when we're now seeing how Mr. Montoro is going to forgive the non-compliant communities and there's going to be a discharge. Since then, in view of the 2017 budgets, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we have tried to hold the People's Party's hand in this Parliament so that as a parliament we will rebel against that great cut for Galicia, but you, as always, have ignored it and have preferred to continue in your absolutely helpful position not to disturb Mr. Rajoy and conform to the management of the crumbs. The truth is, sometimes it gives the impression that you instead of managing a country already directly want to manage a deputation or a community of neighbors, because they show little ambition. They gave up, as I say, in these 2017 budgets, the exercise of the Government of Wales and the petting on the table to demand the treatment that our country deserved, and it came at a time when the aggravation was so obvious, the loss of positions was so obvious, that they had no better occurrence than to announce last April 6, 2017 the establishment of a committee or follow-up commission to monitor the central government's budgetary execution. And now, let me tell you, Mrs. Vázquez, that it has turned out to be a little weird already starting, because, what do you want me to tell you? I would dare say that monitoring the execution of the budget and the degree of compliance of the state with Galicia is something that we understand that it already goes to their wages, and that as the Greek Government they should already do for themselves with or without commission. In any case, I suppose we must conclude that this committee or committee had to be set up at that time because they were not doing so until now. That would explain a lot of things. Seeing the great delays and failures with our country, it would be a good explanation for you to make sure that they did not really exercise government. At the time, his argument also to justify this great cut was that this time, with that commission and that follow-up, the budgets were going to be executed, not as usual, that we see the budgets in theory say one thing but that their liquidation says another. So his argument was that this time, as there was going to be a greater execution, Galicia would actually be earning more investments than in other moments when there was on paper a greater commitment but a low execution. And without going into that argument having a level of elaboration almost a pre-school class, I have to tell you that at this point since the Nationalist Block in Wales we haven't been quiet with that theoretical commission yet. Ten months ago — ten months already since last April — of such an announcement and, frankly, we have continued to think that it was a curtain of smoke simply to cover up that big cut of the 2017 budgets, to cover up that the Government of Galician Union, by the absolute majority of the People's Party that has and by the very fulfilling community in the deficit and debt, did not collect the fruits it owed, because ten months and nothing we know of this commission, and then we brought to the Government today invited in this interview to ask him several questions about it. The first is that the truth is that we would like to be clarified if that commission exists, if it does not exist and so on, because at the time this political training has presented several questions with written answer and nothing received in return, no information of any kind. Also in the first week of October 2017, when we had the debate in this House about the state of the nation, it was one of the points where our spokeswoman, Mrs. Anne Pontón, insisted on the debate with Mr. President, but she didn't inform us of anything about this theoretical commission either. You have so far applied an administrative silence policy that we do not know whether we should interpret how that commission actually exists or how it is a smoke curtain that you make from San Caetano but which, indeed, there is no fruit. Nor did Parliament's 3rd Committee on Budgets and Economic Affairs have any kind of communication, and the most suspect thing is that not even after incorporating this question into the agenda, you didn't even get out of your mouth and dish to announce the successes and results of that commission. In fact, the only thing we heard from the media was -- with surprise as well -- that a digital newspaper in our country, Public Square, asked them, and the first one was the answer from the cabinet, that this commission hadn't met, and then it was that Mr. Feijóo confirmed that what they're doing is actually doing this follow-up on the board of the board; something a little strange. This from the Budget Tracking Commission is beginning to look like some sort of Expedient X and, frankly, we don't know what to think about. And no one has yet come to appear voluntarily to this Parliament to explain whether this commission exists or not and what its fruits are, because that committee, which theoretically announced that you would meet every three months, should already, at this time of year, take several meetings and we understand that it should already have enough things to clarify ourselves at this time of year, and that it should inform us about the evolution of these State budgets. Now we have information on the degree of execution of the first semester, but logically, with such late approval of the 2017 budgets, we don't use it to calibrate and compare with other years as evolution is going. But the precedents we have are certainly not positive. That's why we want to be explained today as a member of the government, Mrs Vázquez, if there is this commission, if not, with what date she started working, how many meetings she has developed, who were finally the ones and their members, whether they have any sort of records or reports of that follow-up and whether they're going to send it to the Welsh House, etc. And also to make an assessment of where we are, because Mr. President of the Board said ten months ago that, if it were not fulfilled in the role of budgets, we would be faced with a disappointing situation. So, since the Galician Nationalist Block, as we're not much of having blind faith, and much less blind faith when it involves some People's Party government, we're actually afraid that one more year we're going out losing those future executional data, and therefore we expect you to be able to see something ahead of you today about this situation and about what was the result of this political follow-up theory that they seem to have decided to start last year 2017. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u276	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, you really want to make up for the loss of representation in this House, but, in any case, it's a very interesting matter what you bring here today. We must have a good budget and, of course, we must execute it, without doubt; we are fully aware that we must execute the budget. Even without finishing the budget of the next year, we've worked on the budget for the next year, and once the budget plan for the next year is approved, we've worked on it. I don't know if you have the cost advance records, because we're applying them, and we're also asking for the state to apply them, and we're obviously working everywhere so that there are specific and specific budget items for the state budget, to continue to move forward, to vertebrate Galicia and improve Galicia; budgets that we want to move into investments and become investments. I believe that no one can say and doubt what we work to secure state investments in Galicia. And, Mrs. Presas, I see that you are very concerned about the state budget, which you want, as you have no representation in Congress, to deal with here. We have systematized and organized, of course, with a proper budget follow-up forum, the activity of the General Administration of the State, of course yes. And weekly we analyze the evolution of budgets and the activity of the General Administration of the State. We also work, with visas during 2017, by the budgets of the year 2018; budgets that have important stakes to guarantee investments also important and necessary, such as the high rail speed to Galicia, and for the works to be completed in 2019, such as the railway improvement A Coruña-Ferrol. We've also been working on this, on the highways pending, on investments in the ports of Greece, so that they're more competitive, on hydraulics, on innovation, etc. For that we need the weight of investment to be important, and I think we'll share the two -- you and me -- this subject. He knows that the biggest investor effort in Galicia was at this time and in the People's Party governments in Madrid. I don't think you have to have any doubts. Of course, satisfaction is not the best recommended attitude for those we are public servants. Of course, the attitude must be unsatisfactory to get more and more better services for the benefit of people. We want more investments, we want more execution of the state, of the municipalities, of the MPs, of the Galician Union itself, of course we do, and we work for it. Other governments, of course, supported by their, Mrs. Presas, painted pharaonic intermodals, but, yes, they did not pass from the power point, but that's what we saw back. Now what we did, what we did, was an important investor effort when it was the worst economic moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know they won't recognize him, but that's right. The Atlantic axis, completed at A-8, the Pontevedra roundabout in works, the Lugo-Santiago highway in works, or finished all truces, and the viable and already activated intermodal stations. So we're working on correcting that historic deficit. That was the budget in Galicia, when the government budget was the third part of the years of kindness. In years of kindness, there were those criticisms of the Catalan nationalists — who are so sorry for them now — that they did not want to invest in AVE in Galicia, because those criticisms were because they were investing in AVE in Galicia. And you speak of little political weight, of cuts, when you ask for 8% of the investment: "BNG conditions its support for the maintenance of 8% of infrastructure investments in Galicia." [[The Woman Infrastructure & Housing Advisor displays a document.]] Don't you realize that in 2017 it was 11%? Are you talking about cutting? The cut will be 8%, which is what you asked for, and not what's put in the 2017 budgets. And not only in 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 but more than 10 above. [[Applause]] So three more points than you demanded for Galicia. Galicia is the second autonomous community in per capita investment and the fourth autonomous community by volume of investment. I think you forget when you see how other autonomous communities say they want the same deal in the budgets of the state that Galicia, because that's what the other autonomous communities say. In any case, although we know that he "is not in", in 2016, where the party with which you also compare has had an impact, of course, in the budget execution of 2017, and may also have an impact on the 2018 budget — an extended budget may have an impact — it must be recognised the very important investments made in 2017: 100 million euros in Spanish innovation, the pending works of the Santiago-Luco bus start, the Connection of the City of Culture — I don't know if I can care, at least not interested in it — are initiated the works of railway improvement in the external port of Ferrol, the PLISAN, where you have left a tremendous legal defeat, and now with the Franca Zone and the Port of Vigo is reactivated to PLISAN, 17 parts of the AVE to Galicia of high speed are released... And, of course, derived from a government in function. Of course, you might think this is weird, because you in your duties signed modified contracts, agreements. And, of course, you know that can't be. Another example is the office park, another example of how it helped itself in functions, and also... yes, that you were also in the Town Hall of Coruña. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the result of the office clerk is there. Today the works of the new Galician railway to Madrid are under way, there is no reason to be suspicious of what they tell us, and the works already the full performance of Zamora-Pedralba, to be put into service this year. And he wants to bring, at best, percentages of the execution of the state budget here in Galicia, I guess because they have no representation in Congress. But since we have to talk about percentages of running budgets, I'm going to give you some percentage data, see if you can give me an answer. Why did the Allariz Council, in the full budget of 2016, stop running 4 of 10 euros of investment? Why does the Carball Council — from BNG too — stop spending 5 euros of 10 euros of investment? Why did the Pontevedra Council stop running in 2016 — in the full year — 45% of the current credit? So you're going to tell those BNG Town Councils to reinvest what you stopped running? Coherence! [[Murmurs.]] They should be consistent! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I suppose you'd see that managing reality isn't as easy as what you move, to get some headline; to manage reality you have to manage and work. Ask your comrades. It seems to you that public management is a blessing from heaven, but you have to manage to do things and solve people's problems. In public management, of course, too. In Pontevedra Town Hall, it dropped by 20% in 2017; Fene, dropped by 25% in 2017; Moaña, by 2017 lowered by 70%; and Moeche, also from BNG, by 90% less. Well, they don't like these numbers, but, well, the truth is... of course, they come to confirm that they're really bad numbers from the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Public officials have to manage, we have to do more than get a headline or retweets. We have to manage and that is why we are awaiting execution, and, of course, the ministries and the rest of the administrations. As I told you, we'll follow up on a weekly basis. I can decently transfer what we have proposed to the State, in particular, from the railway A Coruña-Ferrol. We're involved, of course, in getting more investments, because when a government in the territory gets involved, there's better results. And I can give you more examples. We've managed, for example, to make the design better in Rande's external lanes. If it were for you, we'd come in bad, late, and the trail. You have to look for things, think about things in time. He doesn't care what happens on Rande's bridge. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Reasonable calendar for AVE to Galicia: we set up a follow-up commission for AP-9. For the first time we have a vote on AP-9, on the main highway. We managed to coordinate, launch and activate intermodal stations, with projects already being auctioned. And we've been thinking a lot of things about the central government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, we believe that we must demand, but also comply; not only to demand, to demand and to comply. And we do our job also with budgets in social policies, efficiency criteria, territorial decline. The real investments in Galicia were above those in the Basque Country and Catalonia. And, look, the Infrastructure Council -- since I'm here, it doesn't seem to ask me about the Infrastructure Council -- we invested 90% in 2017, thanks to a stable government. In the tendering, the Galician Union was in 2017 the main tendering body. The Gallaga Infrastructure Agency, EUR 80 million, which claimed in 2017. In total, 104 million euros he licited the Infrastructure Council in 2017 and therefore 57% more than the previous year. That was the Infrastructure Council. He doesn't care about Galicia, so I see, because the Galician Infrastructure Council and we work for Galicia. So we have to preach with the example, Mrs. Presas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u277	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u278	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, Mrs Vázquez, I'm a little surprised. For a moment I thought it was that I had definitely just gone up to my fever today and that I was in a sort of delirium. First, I don't know, I was surprised, actually, that you had come and not Mr. Martínez, because the inquiry was quite concrete about more farm issues. But anyway, as the Government is supportive, I think it's good that any government member comes here to answer. Now, let's talk about state budgets, of execution and so on, when you're the advisor who announced possible delays on the train and when then it was Adef who rectified it to you, because, of course, it makes me suspect a little that, as it was predictable, there was not too much concretion in your data. [[Applause]] What fascinates me is that my group comes to the House of Commons to make an inquiry to the Government of Greece, after it is the Government of Greece who announces a follow-up commission of State budgets with questions such as: What are the conclusions of the Commission for the follow-up of State budgets announced by Feijóo in April 2017?, etc., and that it is the Infrastructure Counsellor to whom I, Member of Parliament, refer for Allariz's budgets. Man, look, I know you're in the municipal bar and so on. [[Applause]] Whenever you want, outside this House, because we're left and we're talking about the municipal BNG budgets, but you're a little serious, don't come to our hair. Don't come get us your hair! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Indeed, the Galician Nationalist Block has no representation in the State House. Here we go! Indeed, that voice is already being missed in defense of Galicia's interests. But it was you who created and announced the bomb and plate a follow-up commission of state budgets like the Government of Galicia! And, then, how are we not going to ask the German Parliament for this commission of the Galician Union? Are you kidding me? [[Applause]] It's just I'm hallucinating! Honestly, I'm hallucinating! [[Applause]] In the question that he began improvising now, at the end of the execution of his counsellorship, I am not going to come in, because, one, he was questioning us about the execution of the Galician Board of Infrastructures, and we've just been doing so recently in the debate of the Galician Board of Budgets. But yes, since you said we came here to look for a headline, I'm going to give you a headline, or a summary. You said you had -- literally, and I took note -- "a suitable follow-up forum." A suitable follow-up forum can translate it into which the commission that announced the bomb and plate does not exist. Because you, Mrs Vázquez, haven't given me a single explanation of what you're asking for in the written interpellation, or any of what we're making here. So, in short, we have to conclude that there is no such commission, that there is no strict follow-up. You haven't even provided any updated data on the execution of state budgets or anything that can advance us from that. It has been limited to saying generalities, such as activated intermodal stations, full performance works, etc., but not a single exact data. So the conclusion is that this follow-up commission does not exist. So you lied to the Greeks and to the Greeks. You then took the hair of this Parliament too when you insisted in this House that this committee would work to follow these budgets. And, I tell you, we no longer insist on how it is or stop being that commission, but if you're not doing your job, you're not following up on those budgets. And also, as you have just been looking back at opposition -- it must be that when they were opposed to this House, they weren't very happy about how they were doing it that they insist -- but, look, the reality is what it is. I'm going to show you a graph of liquidated investment in productive infrastructure, millions of euros. Liquidated investment, the years 2000, etc., is increasing, increasing and increasing, and from 2011 to now, a fall in bite. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos teaches a chart.]] The same is true when we see the evolution of the initial investments — in blue — and liquidated — in red — we see that there has been a fall since 2011; budgets settled, executed; that is, of reality and not of fiction. So you can come here to say that, well, when Jorquera ruled in Madrid that I don't know what, but the reality is that when the Galician Nationalist Block was in Madrid and he was doing his job -- as we did from here as you look at the air -- Galician position was different. In any case, whoever has to report whether or not the state investments in Galicia are being tracked or not, it's you and not us. [[Applause]] So, please have a bit of decency and on the second round -- they have the interpellation there, I can leave the little book here, if you want -- you have the questions: if there really exists this commission, if not, if there are records of those meetings, what is the valuation up to now, whether it is disappointing or not the volume of investments that are running, etc. Because, in truth, it's already squeezing your hair off. And if they invented that they were going to do a commission because they actually had a headline for a couple of days...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u279	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u280	...then at least they assume a little political responsibility for once in their life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Close this interpelment, Madam Infrastructure and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u282	Thank you, President. Madam Presas, this House is the one that exercises control over the government. You can talk about state budgets and even more about city budgets. I don't know why you're upset. I, of course, don't want to take his hair off, I tell him real facts about real accounts we have in Galicia. In any case, we will continue to defend the interests of the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] And to draw conclusions at best from a 2017 budget, as you intend, when the official data of the 2017 state execution are until June... since when the budget was approved in June, it seems that with half a year only... I transferred it was full years. Since we're the Government of Galicia, you know we're not state delegates, central government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u283	I was going to pick up the bell because I'm already tired of... of course, there was a lot of murmuring in the room, actually. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Of course, there's too much murmuring. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u284	Go on, then?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u285	I understand you're upset with the counselor. Of course, I understand you're upset. I was going to pick up the bell because I'm already tired of... of course, to see if, please, they respect the use of the word. [[Laughter]] I'm tired of walking today... we're going to finish the full now quietly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please let the advisor finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u286	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u287	Please, there are other places to talk. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u288	So we work and defend and, of course, defend the interests of the Greeks, demanding the central government greater involvement in everything we consider necessary, and working, of course, with our powers. But his particular way of recognising the data -- I see he doesn't like to talk about the budget execution of the board -- is because it's a good data. And your particular way of recognizing this data, if you're angry with allariz, Carballo and Pontevedra data, is also because it's a bad data. So it's your particular way of recognising the good data of the budget execution of the Galician Union, of your budget. Speaking of the state budget, the state housing plan. The State Housing Plan knows that, if you listen to me, you're moving to the Town Hall. We have ARI agreements with certain municipalities thanks to this state housing plan. For the Town Hall of Pontevedra, with the historical set of ARI, 16%, but it is from the state plan, Mrs. Presas, is from the State housing plan, from the state budgets; and Allariz is 0%. You have to see it all together — I say — not when it comes to me. Everyone goes to theirs, but I go to mine. You have to see it all together and talk with the same approach. So we have to make politics, but we also have to know about management, Your Honor, and we have to manage. We manage and demand that you manage; we apply the account to ourselves as well. We follow up every week. Of course there is this committee and we follow up. I'd tell you that even from the Ministry of Development every day, practically, with the president. So there's a follow-up. There's a lot of investments that can't be executed, and they're also part of it, let me tell you. Alfonso Molina and much of the Town Hall of Coruña, which confuses road safety with wildlife steps for amphibians... but the BNG voted in favour of Alfonso Molina's paralysis. So it has consequences on the budget. Yes, yes, you ask for the data. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] BNG also wanted to paralyze the auction of the port of Ferrol. I don't know how you ask to execute and paralyze your bid. Ferrol's BNG aims to paralyze the auction of the Channel train. Therefore, to run a bid, do not forget. And he also swooped at the high speed Coruña-Ferrol long ago his party. For example, in the Follow-up Forum that we are doing, we deal with this subject specifically and weekly, and we have recently addressed the State to make a viable, technical, environmental and social action, because it is one of the examples, because we work, we manage. I sent my letter, a few days ago, to the Secretary of State to draw conclusions from the railway upgrade of the Horn-Ferrol. I didn't do a retute, but I sent it to her. [[Applause]] So I think they have to change their strategy. He's not, we know who he is. But you're still the ones you didn't. So I... well, you guys backed up here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They didn't say anything when in 2011, with the Government of Zapatero, they left 91 percent of the funds in the Lubian plot and here nothing happened, gentlemen. This was you... once compared to the state budgets. Another example, the navalization of AP-9 and the lack of commitment of the Pontevedra Town Hall. Another example, we couldn't move forward in the sewerage of the Gaphos River when I was in the waters of Galicia because they didn't make zeros available, and so no budgets are carried out. Bus from Morrazo, it wasn't necessary for the BNG. And, allow me, the top of the hives, the paralysing — going to the Prosecutor's Office — of the highway to the Coast of Death. You wanted to paralyze the administration. They wanted to paralyze, of course, the economic progress of the Death Coast, and the Prosecutor's office spoke only in five days. So I'm going to insist. You don't like the data from the Board, but I'm going to repeat it because it's true: 90% of the execution of the board's investments; we've increased the bid by 57%, Your Honor. So we demand others, but we also demand ourselves because we are consistent. Coherence, Your Honor. And, of course, working for not paralyzing Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u289	Thank you, Counselor. Let's get back to the seventh item on the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia on the policy of the Council for Culture, Education and Universitary Order in the field of promotion and dynamisation of reading
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u290	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. "We don't understand the ability to resist the edition in Galicia without counting on the comings that over the last decade have received Reading Promotion Initiatives. There is no doubt that among them is the school library improvement plan, promoted by the Council of Culture and Education since 2004, which with its reading clubs and its animation activities is transforming the reader dynamics of several hundred public centers in the country." This is the first paragraph of an article that I had written yesterday Manuel Bragado, a well-known teacher and publisher in Galicia, and it was an article dedicated to a reading initiative plan in Gondomar, called Him, and spoke about the necessity and the useful things that have always been the approaches that since 2004 — as it says here — has made the Council of Culture and the Council of Galicia. So to me when I read this article exactly yesterday, called "A decade of reading space", published in the Vigo Lighthouse, it seemed to me that I had just started with this paragraph to introduce this question that we have to ask you today by the Popular Parliamentary Group here in this House. The promotion of reading as a fundamental vehicle for the acquisition of knowledge and as a source of leisure, as well as the conformation of reading habits especially among younger generations, is a common task for society as a whole, not only of the Administration, but they have a fundamental role for all educational and cultural institutions, as well as for families themselves, which must also build one of the priority areas in the field of cultural action policies and promote use, dynamisation and reading in Greek, especially in homes. In this sense, with regard to the competences of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Ordination, the commitment made over the last few years by this Department of Galician Unity to promote the strengthening of the role of reading in all layers that make up our society has its clear reflection in a series of programs and activities aimed at bringing people closer to the Greek book in a more attractive and playful way, in order to promote the habit of reading above all among young people and younger generations, in order to have future readers and readers in English, and, of course, consequently, certain future writers and writers in Greek. So, for all the above, and because we are now starting a culture plan in which we will also encourage the dynamization of reading in English, we would like to know what the fundamental axes of the Council of Culture are now to bet on the dynamization and promotion of reading in Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, as you well say, the promotion and dynamization of reading is a common task, and a common task that worries, and much, this board, where competences are deposited both in the field of education and in the field of culture, which have a lot to do with and are very closely intertwined, in any case, with the world of reading. But it's a common task not only of the Administration, but also of civil society, of the associations, of the business world, of the editors, of the creators... Finally, since June we understand that promoting a reading society is fundamental to the present and future of our country. And we have initiatives both in the educational and cultural fields that, to some extent, endorse this bet and this strategy for promoting a culture of reading among the Greeks. From the point of view of education, you have appointed the School Library Network, which is undoubtedly one of the major initiatives that is being launched in Galicia. From the field of culture we also have the integral management of the Public Library Network, along with the municipalities in some cases, and also various initiatives that are oriented towards promoting reading in our country. Reading, the world of the book, is a string of value. There is a link first that is literary creation; there are novelists, dramatists, etc. There is a book market, with publishers, distributors, bookstores, new platforms etc. There's an audience, which is the end consumer, the reader, the end user. And there are the administrations, which we do a double role. On the one hand, betting on libraries, whether public libraries or school libraries, and on the other, on different reading promotion initiatives. We have initiatives of interest in both areas. For example, in the cultural field, everything that has to do with the lines of acquisition of novelties, or to purchase online libraries, around €550,000. Helps also for translation on editorials. The catalogue "Galicia le" of electronic book loan, which this year introduces as a novelty the audiovisual catalogue, with a lot of work already on the network, or other activities, such as "Reading counts a lot", in collaboration with the municipalities, with more than seven hundred activities jointly self-government-concealing. From the point of view of education, we have Plambe, one of the major national initiatives. We have almost seven hundred centres of Galicia involved. This has greatly favored reading understanding. There are programs that you mentioned as the Reading Club, Travel backpacks, etc. Reading understanding has grown a lot in PISA, we are actually above the EU average by 30 points. We're at 590 points within the PISA parameters. Of course, it's essential to work in schools to have a future range of readers. Finally, from the juntta we bet on reading as a fundamental habit for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u294	...to be a freer society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u295	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another thunder. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u296	Thank you, President. Counselor, the truth is that the improvement data in reading understanding and PISA's always positive data I think I'm breathable to keep working on this path. I believe that all Members of this House agree that it is important that since the administration and from the institutions we also encourage reading in English. I think it's fundamental and it's also important that reading in English has been promoted since childhood. And, therefore, we hope that all these plans will continue to give their fruits as they have already been producing since years ago, as they also say -- in addition to the data you bring here -- as I said earlier, publishers and people linked to the book sector. Precisely, it seems that the involvement of all cultural and interconnected structures in the book sector, of all society, is important and fundamental. And, therefore, getting out of hand will be the most successful and best suited to boost that dynamisation, both of the promotion of reading and of the book sector itself. So to finish, counselor, we'd like to know how these plans are going to be developed, what measures and what lines of work they've been planning to carry out and how all these plans are being carried out. In addition to those already implanted, the news you are presenting here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u298	Thank you very much. Madam, as I was telling you, the promotion of reading is a priority for the Galician Union, and in particular for this council, which has the double facet, educational and cultural, which engage directly with the world of the book. Proof of this commitment is an initiative that we are going to put in place, which is the Plan for Reading dynamization in Galicia. This is a plan that we will launch this year 2018. A plan that obviously doesn't want or can't be done alone. The Administration can't do it alone. In this case, we count on an advisory board of the book. In this Book Advisory Council, which is made up of a part by the local administration and another by the autonomous administration, civil society is also represented, by the whole organizational chart that has to do with this world value chain of the book I said before: the Galaga Association of Editors, the Federation of Books, the Association of Writers in Galicia and others, with which, of course, we are collaborating and we want to have a common strategy that enables the world of the book from the conviction that it is important to activate an attitude of persuasion to society and a more readeric citizenship, which is, of course, more critical, freer and ultimately, to have a greater bet for collective progress. Obviously, as in every plan, there will be a diagnosis, there will be an analysis, there will be a design of initiatives with a proactive character, both within the public sector, talking about education and also about cultural initiatives, as well as from the private sphere, from the private perspective, to enhance the chain of value that goes to a certain extent in the book world and in the publishing world. Obviously, we're going to have cross-sectional axes: Welsh language, new technologies, new media for reading, and, of course, this plan for dynamizing reading will also be integrated into a wider umbrella, which is the Strategy of Galicia's 2021 culture; a strategy that we are currently developing. It's going to have a specific development because, undoubtedly, reading, the world of book and publishing is a sectoral axis, it's one of the fundamental pillars of current culture, of course, and we also want it to continue to be of the culture of the future, because the world of the book -- as I said before -- makes citizens more free and has very important implications from the social, cultural and educational point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u299	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination regarding whether the proposed zoning for the admission of the student, in the teaching centres supported with public funds of the city of Vigo, responds to the existing educational needs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u300	Mr. Álvarez Martínez, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u301	Thank you, President. Counselor, very late. Mrs. Egerique, I am very grateful to you for not mentioning that during the bipartisan government the school library plan had disappeared, but it did not say that it had emerged, recently begun in the previous year. In any case, thank you very much for the explicit recognition that we don't load everything that's good in the system. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Counsellor, I recognize you as a lucky man because I came prepared for all the surprising questions that your own parliamentary group has raised. And yet this isn't going to be any new, especially since you've reacted through the media this weekend. As you know — it fits perfectly in the question, that it was not necessary for me to write it — the zoning processes of our autonomous community come regulated in a decree of 2012, Decree 254, and by an order that came out in March of the following year, of 2013. According to you have moved and we know, a working group configured in the Pontevedra Territorial Xefature has started studies for a new zoning of the city of Vigo, passing from the 13 areas currently only 4. This zoning — which seems a bit maximalistic or minimalist, according to the approach we make in view of the fact that we are talking about the largest cities in the autonomous community — has mentioned the unanimous rejection of the Olympic Federation of Associations of Mothers and Parents of Students, mainly for three reasons. [[Fonapas]] As it is known, it presents a manifestly unbalanced distribution between the demand for school posts, taking into account the distribution in the city of Vigo of students of school age and the offer of the schools themselves. A reservation of fact — and we all know that we are devoted to education — is consolidated, even though in a large part of the public centers there is a lower number of compulsory secondary units than in bachelor's degree. And, of course, there's no need to think much to realize that it's a fact reserve for students in the concerted education that abandons the free stages — that is, secondary — to join the network of public centers in the bachelor's degree. And if all of this was too little, it's planning to shift up to 10 kilometers for students within an urban nucleus, a city like Vigo. And that's because after the Board had announced to Navia the largest protected housing plan, with more than 1,600 homes, it seems that you are part of different governments, since there is not the slightest school planning that plans to build new centers and therefore new school units in this area of Vigo city, in this neighborhood. And, therefore, the question is very simple: do you consider this zoning appropriate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u302	Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u303	Well, Mr. Álvarez, as you will understand, because it is my responsibility, I have to be prepared for my group's questions and your questions. I understand that you'll understand. I don't know if you've been prepared for the question you asked. I actually thought that this question would be put to another Member. And I'm telling you why: because, first of all, I understand that you know that we are in the process of preparing a document that is not prepared by any political entity. It's a basic document that's above the table and was prepared by the city of Vigo inspection teams. I mean, we're dealing with a technical work developed by the city of Vigo inspection teams that basically want to improve the zoning of this city for a number of reasons that I understand you're still explaining. It's a city that is growing, in which there is imbalance between the center and the periphery, and in which there is a need to strike a balance between the new neighborhoods and the new school areas, etc. It is a talking document, which is open. In fact, right this morning, the territorial chief had a meeting on this case with the management teams linked to Beade. So, I think we're dealing with a document made from a technical perspective. There is no political interference, except that some people want to put on; it is based on what you say: dialogue, consensus, transparency; it is not closed; it is an absolutely living document; and it aims — the technical inspection group so says — firstly, to balance the city based on four large educational areas where there is a central-peripheral balance, where there is not a single educational unit and where there is a drop in the employment ratios of the classes. It also aims to improve the involvement and strengthening of complementary services, to read transport or to read attention to diversity. You quoted the area of Navia, and I can tell you that in Navia we are doing, in the Rodríguez Castelao, an extension of the primary school of about 3 million euros — so that you say there is no planning or no interrelationship—. If you think little of an investment in the expansion of primary education units of 3 million euros, it is certainly a curious thing. You quote Foanpas here. I'd like to explain the obvious, but I'm going to say that this project, as it is — which is not closed — if it makes it possible for the freedom of choice of centres, if it favors a correlation between public and concerted centres, if it allows them to approach, from the territorial point of view, the periphery and the centre, looking for a balance, and if it guarantees that there is coverage of all the squares. I believe that here, Your Honor, there are a lot of political interpretations, a lot of different political upsets, and I sincerely believe that you have been ill prepared to ask this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u304	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u305	Mr Counsellor, of course, as a Member of this parliamentary group, I consider myself legitimate and even qualified to ask any questions in the field of education at any point in the autonomous community. I don't need your benevolence to qualify for the interpretation of this question. [[Applause]] But, look, he says, there's no political interference with a purely technical document. How, then, is it possible for the territorial chief to hold meetings defending this document? Or did you find him so most grateful and undeserving of any kind of change or dialogue with the interested parties who went there to defend him the cover and sword? How could it be at that meeting if you talked about aspects that are purely political, such as that school transportation was not being touched and that it was an argument that you could not move when you did the zoning? Because that's what the territorial chief of Pontevedra said at those meetings! So there would be something of politics behind this public presentation! But the truth and truth — as Mr Feijóo would say and also some other member of the People's Party — is that since this parliamentary group presented these initiatives there have been certain movements by the Territorial Staff, it may happen that casually, they may realize that this document would greatly complicate education in Vigo. Because Saturday, February 3, appears "the new school zoning will not start the next course," "Satisfaction between parents of students". "It starts registration in public centers with the still-to-concretion zoning." What are we left with? Is the zoning so good? Don't need any changes? Did you have the necessary consensus? Was it a technically impeccable, pure document from a political point of view, and socially neutral? Or does it contain certain decisions that link the future of the school area to the entire municipality of Vigo? I don't have time, but I'd really like to talk about Vigo's peripheral area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u306	Thank you. Another time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u307	...from the rural area of the municipality and from the approach to the center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u308	Leave it for another day. Thank you. Peche, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u309	Well, sir, look, this is a technical document prepared by the inspection services, which is in the process of dialogue with the association of parents and management teams. Here's a clear intention of political interference, not this advice or much less, as you know. There is a process of allegations, there is a process of negotiation and there is a process of consensus. You know perfectly well that the registration period now opens to have it closed in March. And you know that there are a few deadlines for formalizing registrations and bookings of squares and that they can't be compensated. With which, this doesn't mean it's closed or abandoned, but it's done in a consensual way. And, look, the targets are very clear. It speaks of them the Inspection Service: that the student who enrolls in a center knows what route he has, the subscriptions he has; that there is a territorial balance between the inside of the municipality and the central area; that there is a greater supply of services; that there is no subscription to the bachelor's school; that there is a sufficient offer; and that there is more and better transport and that is more rationalized. That's what it's meant, simple and plain. But, of course, you're talking about dialogue. Even today, the territorial boss with the inspection teams is talking in Beade with the schools in that space, with the key centers in that space. But, of course, there are some questions that are surprising, I don't know if they told you or not. It is surprising that, for example, the zoning was made last year in Pontevedra with no greater problem, but it is curious that at Vigo, now that this process is being done, is called in an extraordinary and urgent manner by the Municipal School Council to reject a technical document that has not even been received. Now imagine that we've got equal teachers together and say, these kids, even if they don't take the exam, we're going to suspend them, even though we don't know what they're going to do. The Municipal School Council rejects an urgent call and extraordinary document that has not been received. Surprising! There are things that never cease to surprise. Nor does it cease to surprise what is written in that school council, and it says: "A process with sufficient time to analyze Vigo's school reality and its needs, with dialogue, transparency and the participation of the entire educational community, so that a document ordering schooling, facilitates the access and continuity of public schools and ensures equal opportunities." But this is what is being done. That's what they tell us to do, and that's what we're doing. Obviously, as it stands, or there's a pre-existing political position for us to have the technical document and, without even a simple proposal, a rejection is made without knowing the document, because you'll really see it's surprising. That's why I told you that maybe you didn't prepare it for this question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u311	...because there's really a political intent behind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u312	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u313	...absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u315	And I think here, ladies and gentlemen, the little sentinel is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u316	Thank you. [[Applause]] Question by D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions of the Board of Galicia aimed at including in the education offer of the Bachelor the compulsory matter of the History of Philosophy as a trunk matter, according to the agreement adopted by the plenary of Parliament of 18 October 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u317	Question by Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u318	Thank you again, Mr. President. I'm not going to say hello, not because I'm angry with you, despite some of the statements you made, but because I already saluted you in my first question. And, to say this, just because it's going to take me very little time, I want to tell you that you know that administrative acts that you don't agree with may be likely to be challenged. You already have the open way, do it, and that's it! And let us leave the Vigo School Council and the rest of the cities exercising their powers within the freedom offered by the legal framework. Therefore, nothing more to say. The reason for this question, as you know, is that on October 18 last year, the inclusion in this Parliament of the subject matter of Philosophy in the second degree of Bachelorship was unanimously approved as compulsory matter for all students. This requirement necessarily requires the modification of the regulatory framework of the organization of the Bachelor's degree, in particular Article 31 — which speaks of the organization of the second course of Bachelor's degree — of Decree 86 of 2015, as well as of the adjustments to be made — that is true — in the structure of the Bachelor's degree assessment tests for access to the university. To this parliamentary group I have to address both the platform that promoted the proposal not of popular initiative law as some other collective teacher, I understand that without any kind of perverse political intent, but simply because of their concern, since we are talking about teachings that must be reorganized in the way it is established in the decree for the 2018-2019 course. Therefore, that organization — as you know perfectly — must take place in sufficient time. And we understand that the Council should have moved to this height of the year, at this height of the course, at least some idea on which dates it intends to publish the corresponding legislation, even drafts, as it is done on other occasions — and I think it is right — of the rules it will apply to be known in advance. So what we'd like to know is, what steps have they taken so far for the amendment of that decree? As you know much better than I do, the modification of a decree has a different route to an order and therefore requires more time. And we simply want to know what action this council has taken to effectively comply with the agreement of this Parliament — I repeat — unanimously of 18 October 2017. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u319	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. To answer, Mr. Culture Counsellor, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u320	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, I am glad that you talk about competences and that each body, each administrative level, does what it has to do and tries to do well. I think it's important to do that, because it also has to do with the answer we're going to formulate right now. Obviously, the Council, like the whole of the Government, has a mandate and we certainly comply with Parliamentary agreements, as far as it is a unanimous parliamentary agreement in this House. So, as far as you are concerned, the first thing we have already done in November was to send and formally transfer this agreement, in this case, to the Ministry of Education, in particular to the State Secretariat of Education. We told him that there was a consensus in this Parliament and that debates on the education pact were raised, whether the situation of philosophy in the education system and the need to enhance its knowledge and learning. Obviously, in this area, the Ministry has already answered us. The Ministry tells us that it is pleased to receive this request and that it will, of course, move it to the forums in which the Education Pact is currently being discussed, which are three: Congress — a subcommittee — the Senate and also the Sectoral Conference. Obviously, that is where it has to be assessed, where the relevant and necessary measures have to be taken to ensure that this subject and all philosophy is truncated or not within the amendment of the new education law, the new organic law of education, which, presumably — and we hope so — is put into effect as a result of the agreements of this education pact. Obviously, and within the scope of our powers, the Education Council is also working to comply, in this case, with the Parliamentary Agreement, and is doing so with an intention. The intention of the Council is that the legislation should be published in this quarter so that within the competence of the Council of Galicia it can be complied with in some way with the parliamentary mandate. I obviously ask for peace. We're in time, we're in time, we're working. In this first quarter, this rule will be published, and I can tell you that we have complied with and that we are fulfilling the two mandates, the two points proposed in this case by the parliamentary initiative, as I have just said: one in the state area, transferring this request, in this case, to the State Secretariat, and also in the field itself, drawing up a regulation to be published throughout this quarter. I think it's a very good way to comply, and we really appreciate that this agreement, which is a unanimous agreement from the House, does not serve anyone to try to extract political revenue from a situation in which we all agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u321	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u322	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I see him very concerned about political revenues. Look, your answer in the first part, as far as the transfer to the State Secretariat of Education is concerned, to move a parliamentary agreement, I think it's normal; therefore, nothing to say about it. I'm so glad you've been received so well. But look, your answer to the second question gives me more uncertainty than certainty, and therefore, I would be grateful if you could just confirm to me if, in fact, for the 2018-2019 course, students who attend 2nd bachelor's degree in this autonomous community would necessarily run History of Philosophy whether or not, because that was the parliamentary agreement, regardless of whether... So it turns out that we're leaving here, we're all happy, we're almost partying, and we're demonstrating in Quintana the four parliamentary groups, along with the organizers of the mobilization for the History of Philosophy, and we all conclude that, in fact, the students would have this compulsory subject in the 2nd bachelor's degree and now it's not? That is, what can be transferred to the educational community that will not necessarily have Philosophy? Look, without the incentive to oversimplify this debate, this has a binary answer: yes or no; 1 or 0. Is there philosophy for all students necessarily in the Autonomous Community of Galicia in 2018-2019 course in 2nd degree or not? And I won't use any more time, because it's so easy to respond to that or so complicated by the position of everyone and the place where it is, which, at best, requires some blurry logic and not 0 or 1, but 0.7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u323	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. The Councilman of Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u324	Mr. Álvarez, Parliamentary agreement: "...in the framework of his powers, make the necessary adaptations to include in the Bachelor's educational offer the compulsory history of philosophy as a trunk matter." You should know that for a subject to be or not to be trunked, the organic law that says a subject to be or not to be trunked should be changed. And you should know — that I'm sure you know — that an organic law cannot be amended by a decree, be it a state decree or an autonomous decree. I will assure you that, with the proposal that we are making within our field of competence, all the Greek students of the 2nd degree will be able to choose the History of Philosophy as a four-hour subject in the 2nd degree of Bachelorship in the field of our competences. If you want to go beyond the agreement and you want to launch a message that is false, that is wrong, that it is possible to make a compulsory, trunk, without modifying LOMCE, that is, organic law, you are aware that you are launching an absolutely false message. If it isn't, I think I leave my answer here and we keep talking. What I'm telling you is that in the field of our competences we're working so that all students of 2nd bachelor's degree can study, if they so wish, in BAC's 2nd History of Philosophy, because the other is impossible, because it's necessary to modify the organic law so that it's trunk, compulsory, on all the itineraries that are in Bachelor's degree. That's exactly what was approved here. Another thing is what you're saying, that doesn't agree with the background or the form of the parliamentary agreement I had here in October. With which, I can tell you and I tell you that in the field of our organizational competences we are making the regulatory adaptation so that all centers have to offer in 2nd degree the subject of History of Philosophy. By the way, 4 hours, and by the way, in 1st bachelor's degree, Philosophy with LOE was 2 hours; with LOMCE it was 3 hours. I mean, we're fulfilling the mandate, we're doing it within the scope of our competences and, to a certain extent, we ensure that all students who want it can have History of Philosophy in 2nd bachelor's degree. Now, in the field of competition, state, when the new law is changed, it is when you, by leaping over the parliamentary agreement reached here, pose this binomy yes/no, which is an absolutely false binomy, because it is not proposed in any case within the parliamentary agreement that this is done, since only the State, by modifying organic law, can do so, and we, in the field of competence and autonomy, are doing what we have to do so that in this quarter we will publish the rule that will allow all the Greek 2nd LAC students to choose History of Philosophy as a 4-hour subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u325	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. We're still on the agenda. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. of En Marea, on the legislation on which the decision of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order not to include the student repeater in the calculation of student ratios by class
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u326	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Luca Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u327	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, you have the record of [...] made to politics, and look how difficult it is! [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] See that you've already been used to your absolute lack of ethics, cheap populism and unscrupulousness of what you normally do here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u328	Go to it, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u329	...that you don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u330	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u331	...to see the other thing in this Parliament than to give the show! We hope you correct as soon as possible. Their lack of ethics not only insults us, insults their voters, insults all citizens. You need an obscen... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u332	Mrs. Chao, get to the point. The complaint was understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u333	Counselor, good afternoon. As you know, today we've been talking about ratios, although it's difficult; with the environment of your group, it's difficult, because yes, they're concerned, ethics is worrying us. A counselor should be less funny. You should respect the group you're talking about. I think, even so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We're going to talk about ratios and girls and invisible children, which are in the classrooms, everything is in the educational centers because of their attitude. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is, at all, because you insist on the mistake, on the booty of hair, because of which you decide to ignore students and students who repeat each course without counting them for the number of classes. He well knows that this is not the first time we have talked about this matter in Parliament; so we have heard such things as it doesn't matter to have 20 or 30 classes because quality is not in question. Of course, you say anything unbridled, even insulting the opposition over and over again. You can come here with a pen to land all the advances made in educational research. There are studies — you probably know them — that assess precisely the opposite, that the lower the ratio, the greater the attention the student receives. But it's also a matter of common sense — which often fails as well — and you, who was a teacher, should know, I imagine you know, even though you want to deny the evidence. The thing is that the need to reduce the ratios in the classroom is a usual cry at the beginning of each course, a usual demand by the unions, a usual demand by the entire educational community, which understands that the attention that the student needs cannot be dispensed in the classrooms. Classes with few children and children would allow precisely the opposite, more personalized attention, more dedication on the part of teachers and ultimately better results. Of course, just the logical opposite of the cuts. But the ratios don't just increase. One of the main decrees of the educational cuts you know, the Royal Decree Law 14/2012, plans to increase that figure by 10%. The Government of the People's Party said it wouldn't expand, but, of course, if we don't count the repeaters, we can expand without containing it; make traps, ultimately. An inexplicable absurdity, injustifiable. Get us out of the data, but they're there; get us out of the statistics, but they're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u334	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u335	They may pretend to be invisible, but, Counselor, they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u336	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u337	The question is clear: on the basis that they are not counting the repetitive student in the classroom?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u338	You know the counselor's question. [[Applause]] Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you will see, respect in the classroom, just like respect in Parliament, you must not ask for it, you must win it. And I think, after listening to you, you're going to have to earn a lot of respect, because look, you ask a question and take advantage of the question to introduce questions that have nothing to do with the question, which are outside of this parliamentary debate. [[Applause]] And I'll try, to answer to you, so you don't think we don't respect you, so you don't think we won't answer you or you don't think you're right — that you don't have it — to have the maximum educational ability I have. [[Murmurs.]] As you well said, I assume and am proud to be a teacher, and I am in politics — almost everyone, or I hope — in a transitional way. We're all acting out of politics, but to some extent, I'll try to be as didactic as possible to tell you that what you're thinking gives you the feeling that it's something like doing something out of legality or we've been asking a question that was irregular. And you can be sure that, if this were the case, the inspection services would alert us and alert us to the society and the whole educational community that they were doing the wrong thing. But I'm going to tell you that there's an organic law, the LOE, approved by a socialist government at its own time. That law sets out some ratios: 25 in primary; 30 in secondary. You later have a royal decree. This royal decree of the year 2010 maintains data 25/30 and plans, at the state level, 35 in baccalaureate. Subsequently, autonomic regulations maintain the ratios in primary and secondary and reduce the rates of baccalaureate to 33, the minors in Spain. And I'm also going to tell you that the LOE itself, in Article 87.2 — you have read it literally to make no mistake, so that we are not mistaken — tells you that it is possible to increase up to 10% of the maximum number of pupils and students per class in public and private centres in the same school area, to meet immediate needs for pupils' schooling, late incorporation by transfer of the family unit or family home. In this case, Your Honor, all the educational ratios that the Galician Union has are within these parameters, because if we're not committing illegality, and I understand that you don't mean that the inspectors, the management teams of this council or this board, which are not of this government, politically speaking, are likely to have illegality. In any case — and already finished — Galicia during the crisis did not increase its ratios, as did other autonomous communities. We have the best ratios in Spain and what you're proposing in Galicia can ask in those autonomous communities where you rule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u340	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u341	...and you'll see how they do absolutely the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u342	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u343	Counsellor, you could take advantage of your turn — it is more: you should take advantage of your turn — to answer our questions, not to talk about other things. I repeat, why don't they count the repetitive student in the classroom? Why is this the only community in the state where the repeater student is not told in the classroom? Why do you intend to give normal faces to such a rude manipulation, based on what? We're not talking about conventional ratios, we're talking about the repeater student, which you don't have in class. Why aren't they telling you? Why do they treat the repetitive student as if he didn't exist? Don't you take the same space in the classroom? Don't you have the same needs? The question is simple. If there's any reason, if there's any legal basis to justify it, the repeater student -- I insist -- in case you didn't understand it well, please explain it. You could tell us what the criteria are that don't count the repeaters, because it could be the case that you got up one day and told us: because we're not going to tell the blonde student -- it could be -- or we're not going to tell the student who has a name that starts with "s" -- it could be. If there is no firmer criterion than justifying it, it will seem equivalent. You didn't explain why the repeater's, so I encourage you to tell us, please, what logic is, because it seems to us as arbitraryness and a gross way of trying to deceive citizenship. You should also explain how even if you don't do the fake ratios, these ratios — I say — are fake, because you're not counting on the student who repeats course. He has just denounced the STEG union in the trial, not the one said En Marea, he's in the court. I could even read you the list of centers, but this should do for you. They're in default in the center of Castelao, in Barrie de la Maza, in Foz, in Pedrouzos, in Zalaeta, in the Years, in López Ferreiro, Painter Laxeiro, Queen Fabiola... I have here the list. I can leave you later, see if the information we have is not correct. But, I say, that was his job. He would be responsible, and if he didn't want, if all he wanted was to let go of time, as he used to do, he could have taken advantage of it for something else, to get away from the painful words of his co-scanner, which you didn't do either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u344	Thank you. Peche, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u345	Mrs. Chao, you don't care. You get here, take your comments, from argumentary, it's absolutely the same. He says you keep the law, you don't. I'm sure if I ruled the Tide—because sometimes they said so—it would be either to comply with the law or not to comply with the law, it was absolutely the same. I gave him the legal basis, even put a specific name on the article, but he doesn't care. You don't know the situation, how the system works in Galicia, and you also don't know how it works in other autonomous communities, because you're saying, no, it's only in Galicia, this case is only in Galicia. But this is done in all autonomous communities, Your Honor, in all autonomous communities. And look, here's a clear principle of management. As you wish. [[Murmurs.]] If you stay calm like this, perfect. And look, here we have to apply simple and sound wisdom. You can't say cheerfully that the Council doesn't comply with the law, it doesn't comply with the binding legislation on ratios, because it would be accusing the inspectors, who are the ones who must monitor these issues, that they're doing their job wrong, simple and plain. Simply and clearly, the situation we have in Galicia with respect to repeaters is identical to that which makes a huge majority of the autonomous communities in this country. You deny it. You really are a brave person. He makes free statements, but he should have a little bit more rigor when he questions a series of aspects that have much to do with the basic situation of the system. Look, admission is very complex. There are a lot of questions that come into the students' admission: new students, those who join the centre, the specific needs for educational support, those who repeat courses, those who repeat courses, and the demographic situation of each case, but there are always variations of students, and finally the educational ratios are based on the criteria set out by educational centres, with their management teams and inspection teams. You here question since the legislation I just read to you literally and introduces the principle of arbitrariness. I don't have the slightest doubt that if you ruled, you would give them the same law, because they're saying it specifically every day, they don't care about compliance or non-compliance with the law. But I'd like to tell you just one thing — and I'm done now —: Galicia, young lady — I'm sorry — has the lowest teacher/student ratio in Spain and has the lowest student/student ratio in Spain, below the Spanish averages in all cases (primary, secondary and also in bachelor's degree). And look, Galicia didn't raise the ratios when she could, she didn't raise them, because she saw it for educational quality, and here it was demonstrated and it's showing itself day by day, and also, finally, what Galicia does with its repeaters is what they're doing immensely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u346	Finish, please. Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u347	...most of the autonomous communities. With which I very much appreciate your question, but, frankly, I think it is absolutely out of place.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u348	Thank you, Counselor. Wait a minute. I'll make a consultation with the vice president. [[Pause.]] In any case, I ask, Mrs Chao, if you have addressed Mrs. Paula Prado calling her [...]. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? Then I ask him to take it off. I'll call her in order. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry, he's definitely retired. No, no. I call her in order and she retires. We're gonna be consistent in everything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, I wasn't in the debate. No, no, it doesn't change anything. It doesn't work, we're already on a shift. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go to the question. Quiet, please. We're not going to get on that subject. Quiet. Please. Please! Please! That's an angry subject. Quiet, please. Let those who are in the use of the word. Question by Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the balance sheet made by the Galician Council on aid to agricultural products processing projects granted in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u349	Mr. Vega, ask the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will apply a little common sense and measure this debate, if they are interested; otherwise, they can leave. [[Interruptions.]] Let's talk about the countryside. Do you know that word? If you don't know her, we'll talk about the countryside. And we're going to talk about the productive sectors and we're going to talk about the transformation. I know that you do not know all of this, but we, as a parliamentary group, apply the sense and apply our efforts and our work for this rural area, which is what we believe. Of course, Counsellor, I would like to thank you for your presence, at least on this side; I don't know if you are on that side, but on this side we do thank you for your presence so you can come and report to the people of Galicia to explain what measures we are taking in the rural area. You know — and we all know perfectly well — that transformation is fundamental to the productive sector and to the sector in particular, the agricultural sector, and here two issues come out, which is the milk sector and the meat sector and the garden as well. The transformation is something very important, and we have a product, which is the milk product, the milk, which is of immense quality. We all know that, and we know that we have farms that have undergone total and absolute renewal, and the consequence of that renewal of genetic improvement, that renewal in the sorting machine, has consequences: that there is an enormous amount of milk produced. It's the same in the flesh. We used to visit as Commission 7a a few days ago the Meat Technology Center, and there we were shown that meat is producing more and better quality. And in the garden, with that mark also 100 percent of Galician, that quality garden, that garden that is produced in our comarcas; that is to say, within the Greek map, we are Spain's pantry. This has consequences, and we have to work and influence, and that's why this pre-question reflection. What measures are you taking in Galician Union? I know there's a lot of measures being taken to walk, that producers are drawing new lines, and those lines of subsidy they're hosting are focusing on the transformation of our products. The transformation must be equal to benefits. The transformation of our products must be equal to more dairy derivatives and greater processing also in the flesh. Therefore, we, as a parliamentary group, asked and asked what balance makes Galician Union of aid and concrete projects in the transformation of agricultural products granted in recent years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u351	Thank you, Mr. Vega. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the agricultural development of a country cannot be based solely on the empowerment of its agricultural and livestock productions, but must necessarily take into account the whole agro-industrial system and in particular the agricultural processing industries. We have to close the circle, and that's where we're working. It's hardly good to have the best raw material if we're not finally able to get the most profitable stuff out of it. And that's where we're working everywhere. The processing and marketing facilities of agricultural products are necessary to make them viable, to give added value to those agricultural productions whose base is in our rural areas of Galicia. The maintenance and empowerment of the agri-food industry promotes the survival of the agricultural holdings and the economic fabric surrounding our rural areas. Even so, support for existing industries enables jobs to be maintained and boosted by the creation of new jobs in the Italian countryside. The Galician agri-food industry consists of about 1,700 companies. These 1,700 companies now have 17,000 people employed and account for more than 4,600 million euros. Among them there are nearly 1,200 industries that make only and exclusively raw materials from Galicia, as well as animal food processing industries, which is why they are all of strategic importance in our agricultural sector. They highlight their importance, no doubt, the dairy and meat industries and the animal feed industries, which account for over 90%. Also very relevant are the wine industries, which account for more than 40%. But in addition, the agro-industrial sector must also see itself as a key sector in territorial balance and in the development of local economies, as indicated by the fact that 60% of companies are located in municipalities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, and 75% of them have the micro-enterprise category. In addition, the food industry depends on the raw materials produced in the territory and contributes to increasing the value of production. But we also have to value natural resources, our landscape, the environmental part. The current and foreseeable future importance of our primary resources makes the industry linked to its process have important growth expectations. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing a take-off of the agro-industrial activity that is taking place in the creation of new industries in Galicia, which are betting on coming to Galicia, which are expanding into Galicia, which are transforming and therefore generating new jobs. All the way back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u353	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u354	Okay. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u355	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u356	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. I think it's important to say clearly what you said about closing the circle. That means we're working in the right direction. [[Laughter]] It's true that... this laughter I don't understand very well, but yes... I don't need a choir. [[Murmurs.]] What's true is that we're working on a right path -- I repeat, so that they're clear -- and, therefore, the circle is to work in a sense: that exploitation, that the glove is to be businessmen beyond the milk tank. This means the transformation into farms. Investing in a cheese shop, investing in transforming our product, has consequences for the farmer. We're talking about an entrepreneur who sets up his life plan in a parish, in a rural town, in a municipality, as you would put relief, who put the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. This clearly shows that we're betting on the small municipalities, rural. What is the consequence of continuing to invest in transformation, to continue to bring ideas and projects to our rural community? That people set up a life plan in rural areas and don't draw any other lines to stay away from our rural areas. That is to say, if we have a demographic problem, if we are betting on a primary sector which is a factor in transformation, we are telling you that it is rural, because we are telling you that it is the priority sector, a priority sector on our land, which is the dairy, meat sector, and, consequently, the agricultural sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u357	Thank you, Mr. Vega, thank you very much. Close this question, Counselor of the Rural Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. We used to say before we wanted to achieve targets, and the goals were to close the circle so that the greatest possible added value remained in Galicia. And to achieve these objectives, the Rural Council currently has two lines open, two fundamental lines of financial support for industry in the form of deep-lost grants. One is the aid for investments in the processing and marketing of agricultural products, co-financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, through the RDP. And within the period of 2014-2020 I have to say that in 2018 it increases by 22% compared to 2017. They are also aid to investments in the production and marketing of wine products, for the period 2019-2023, also financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, that is, by the Feaga, and that it is also the first time in this period that we remove them, and it is a fundamental impetus for a sector that is also strategic within the Greek rural area, which are the cellars, the transformation of our wines. The first of these lines is framed in the current rural development programme, and the other line of support for the agri-food sector is specifically directed, as it said, to the wine sector, and started in this call in 2018. As far as grants are concerned, they can reach up to 50% of the investment, in the case of aid financed through the RDP, and 40% in the case of aid to the wine sector. The higher or lower level of support depends on the technical evaluation of the investment project, according to objective criteria, which, of course, are both public and competitive. Generally speaking, what is financed is the construction, acquisition and improvement of immovable property, the acquisition of machinery, new equipment, or the development of new programs through something essential, which is the creation of new products, innovation and research. Through these support instruments, during the period of implementation of the current RDP and in the years 2016-2017, the number of approved projects was 204, with an investment of more than 136 million euros, of which the subsidy received through the Rural Environment Council was 49 million euros. The figure of these last two years indicates that there is a strong investor dynamics in the agri-food sector. But apart from this type of investment funded or co-financed through the Rural Council, there are other investments. And we used to talk about the milk field, and I want to put it in value here, as is the case of Goodleit, in Curtis County, to transform more than 460,000 tons a year, and that's now in progress and that will also provide jobs that will be around 130 people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u359	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr José Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of the Government of Greece not to adopt measures in order to maintain in use, in lease regime through Bantegal, the lands that are abandoning the agricultural activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u360	Mr. Rivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad there are people with so much faith, and I remember that faith is to believe what you don't see. Official data on Social Security is telling us that we have fallen into the state by 1,106 contributors to Agricultural Social Security, and 1,006 correspond to Galicia. The statistics also say that, with respect to the past 2017, 424 dairy farms closed due to inability. However, you, Counselor, throw the four winds an' everything's fine and here's nothing's going on. It's more, tell us that this is where the price of milk has increased most. And it will be true. It's more, it's the lowest price in the state and we're not even close to the European average price. And it's not, ma'am, because our milk is of the lowest quality; no, it's in the middle of the state; let's remember that we're the average of that. Because the mother of the year is in the difference between the cost of production and the price of sale, and there they hurt us tremendously. Our dairy sector is dependent on exogenous inputs, and it has its greatest weakness, coupled with the progressive intensification and a policy of defence of the sector by the Government of the United States. We had a breath—remember— relative, two years in which the prices of the inputs did not fluctuate illegally. Your Councillor's sleep has fallen soaked by the mornour of a ray that won't last. At this time you should have initiated corrective measures that would lead to the strengthening of the sector, preparing it for future eventualities. They didn't. They don't even know. The process of concentration of farms and intensification of agricultural activity leads the sector to its gradual self-liquidation... — I have lost myself to looking at the hour — as the production leader of the preferred European state and region. A sector, Counsellor, which mortgages its existence on the whims of the international corn market, sounds and seeds of cotton mainly, and which has no margin enough to suffer these battles, is a sector full of weaknesses. A sector that does not incorporate agricultural land into abandonment of agricultural activity, seeing as part of them being forested impunity, is a sector that has the future in the knife's thread. A sector that, using a privileged territorial base in Europe, does not play in the markets the quality strategy, with conditions remaining, is a suicide sector. Bantegal's media supply is ironic; it's all about the prayers of the partial concentrations, and nothing else. Because of not having, you have no budget — EUR 87,000 — any equipment supporting the field work, talking to people, managing farm rents on site. Nothing. Agrarian offices, dismantled. What's going to be that more than 150,000 hectares of abandoned land? Do you have your forestry planned for the new forest plan? And so this is the question: what is the reason why, given the statistics on activity and prices in the Greek dairy sector, no measures have been taken with Bantegal, etc., etc.Is that what you're talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u362	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, listening often to the arguments, I'm not surprised that, when I approach the countryside, they say I give a little joy, because to give sorrow as soon as there are others. [[Applause]] And it gives the impression that, instead of supporting new initiatives, instead of those 466 Thursdays that were incorporated last year into rural areas, which are 466 farms — 466 companies are said to be in rural areas — to encourage them, in the end, this is like the great black legend of the Italian countryside, which you want but you will not conquer, because we are already others to work for that not to be so. [[Applause]] We're talking about the Land Bank, and that Land Bank is the public instrument that counts on one of its fundamental objectives, which is to lay the groundwork on our farms. But if we had to do a comparison of what the current Land Bank is with the Land Bank that tried to create others, there would be a lot to say. And so it should be said that they create a Land Bank at a given time, that it was also rejected by an anonymous society, where you said that they had 8,000 available plots, and after studying and studying, we found that those 8,000 plots -- not hectares, that they wouldn't even be that -- that you at a given time -- were called Bipartite, BNG-PSOE -- were told to the sector that they were there to rent them. But we started to look at each of these plots, and we found that those plots that you wanted to give to our livestock by lease most of them had on top of a cemetery, a church, and some of them weren't worth cultivating. Don't laugh: 8,000 plots we had, which we now derived directly from the municipalities, because of course they were all less agrarians, Mr Rivas. With which, lessons, please, the minimums. Right now the Land Bank has rented land at its disposal, 17%, more than 4,000 square meters, which could be viable for our landowners, who are at their disposal, but it is given the chance that not all are in the countryside intimately. But we still put instruments on the table, and now more land is being restructured than ever before, and we have EUR 20 million by 2020, EUR 20 million each year, to make agricultural restructurings and to make land available. But apart from that, we have other systems, such as the Marcos system; that is, we facilitate land to our owners so that the remaining holdings can be viable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u364	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, of fictitious joy he lives at the entrance, which we are in; I don't know if he refers to that. [[Applause]] It is not resolved with encouragement to the dairy sector. That solves when the cyclists go up a terrible coast and they go sweaty, but not anymore. Look, we tried to create the Land Bank, and we created it. You guys blew up in a short time. You know why? [[Applause]] Because you don't forgive BNG in particular, we have a project consistent with the rural environment. They didn't give us time or even propose it. Why? Because they drew their weapons more... more, uh, like those octaves that were distributed in Dormeá, from the hands of people of the People's Party -- they didn't have a signature -- but they were talking about that the Land Bank wasn't cemeteries or muddy lands, they would expropriate their property. I have the octavillas and I have witnesses to who distributed them, there and in many other places. That's called dirty, dirty play. And when you play dirty is because you're afraid, you're afraid of the continuity of coherent projects for something that you don't care about being consistent. [[Applause]] That's why you don't use the Land Bank, and if you start talking to us -- the other day, they made it clear to us in the Fire Commission -- about agricultural polygons, and something they call "popular capitalism," which no one understands, but that's really going to make the way of intensive forest rest with the trees that we all know about rural tractors. Look, you keep reasoning from that fictitious joy and leave us in reality, even if it's hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u366	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Close this question, Counselor of the Rural Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u367	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think I'm lying, even forget about football or supermarkets. That's what you had in your Land Bank. That's the reality. They ask their mayors, that we have to write, write, record and hand them over, so they don't have any problems, because it was actually the Land Bank owner when they shouldn't actually be there. That's how you worked. Then he says we haven't given him time. No, they didn't give them time the Greeks, who saw what they did for four years and said, "These gentlemen don't want to know anything at all." [[Laughter]] From there, I tell them: if they want to talk about milk, we talk about milk, we talk about production, we talk about how we are right now, and I tell them that we are still leaders — about 40% national — in production. Last December we hit a record: 225,000 tons. Look, the yellow gloves billed in the last year, 2017, about 815 million euros, 11% more than the previous year. That translates into 81 million euros more than in 2016. This billing is fruit, among other things, of which production has also increased. And production increased by 60,000 tons more than it was ever produced. That means that the Greeks follow a path, and that path is to dimensionalize the farms and that these farms, therefore, are profitable. From there we can talk about prices. And if you tell me if I want to go more, of course!, and I want to go more with joy, with strength, with freshness, but telling them where to go. And the way we work......less, but that profitability is higher, of course, it's to have a territorial basis, and that's where we're working. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're working with a distinction and land management: on the one hand, forestry, and, on the other hand, of course, agricultural income. And the two things — they believe me — are compatible. We have a unique scope and that's called Galicia. And here it's not about dealing with the field of agriculture with the forest area, here it can be worth both parts. Speaking of prices, we're talking about the increase in the milk sector, the price of milk. And I want to tell you that right now we're at 32.2 cents euros and so it's the highest price in the last three years, and we're going at the most. What, of course, would we like to reach the European average? We're on that line. We're on that line that you often...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u368	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u369	...they want to create doubts, which is to attract industry here to transform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u370	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the realization by the Council of the Sea of some assessment of the possible condition in the Arousa River of the reopening of the copper mine located in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u371	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u372	Good afternoon, Counselor. And very late to the representatives of the Platform for Defence of the Arousa River, who accompany us today from the rostrum. I'm going to ask you -- I hope that with the joy and freshness that you are up to the advisor to the Rural Environment, I don't know if I will be who -- for your position, Counsellor, and your Counsellor, regarding the reopening of the exploitation of the Touro mine for the extraction of copper. This is an open-sky megaminery project that will occupy an extension of 679 hectares, a project presented by a transnational mining project involving investment funds and voitre capital funds. He's got a clear speculative goal of getting many benefits in a short time and stealing taxes. Open-sky mining consists of drilling tons of soil, taking the mineral, pulling the rest, removing the copper through a chemical process and taking it out, not even turning into Galicia. We can summarize it in "copper or copper and run". It's basically the project. This exploitation will produce millions of tons of steriles with high concentrations of heavy and dangerous metals. Its location, in the middle of the Ulla River, has caused all the alarms to be blown up in the Arousa River and in the socio-productive tissue because of fear of the serious environmental consequences it may cause. Is this a warranted alarm? Of course, at BNG we believe that yes, which is more than justified, because to separate the copper, chemical products are used with a very high level of toxicity, because the material is going to be deposited in huge highly contaminated rafts and therefore at risk of being contaminants; rafts that will occupy an area equivalent to more than five hundred football fields, with fences that will add more than two and a half kilometers and at some points a height of 80 meters high. The land and watercourses of the mine drain towards the Ulla River and hence the pollution it generates will go down water to the Arousa River. Clearly, we are faced with a very high risk, too, that the rafts are broken. The Ulla River is the main freshwater stream in the Arousa River. The environmental impact on the productive sector can be extremely high, lethal. The Arousa River, with a high dependence on the sea, fishing and seafood; a fundamental activity in the river, from which more than 30,000 families live. Very intense activities and direct and indirect labour, fixed population, are fundamental to the socio-economic fabric of the river; in many of the municipalities it is more than 20% of its GDP. So, Counsellor, we asked you, what is the position of the Sea Council on this mine project? If you've done the counsellor's assessment of affectation to the Arousa stream of it. If you have carried out any study on the possible consequences of the river, sea banks and fishing; if so, what is the result? If you're going to meet the demands of the confrereries, of the associations of mussels, of the platform for defense of the Rhine, of the municipalities, so that this mine project is not authorized.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u373	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u374	And what stage is the report to be issued by the advisor? If he's gonna move it to the sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u375	You know the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u376	And if that report is going to be negative or positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u377	Thank you. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u378	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, you have to allow me not to make future assessments of something that is still in the decision-making process and also that from here repeat the same message that I have already taken to the Arousa Sea sector of prudence, security and tranquility. In this government we believe and trust the development of a safe and sustainable mining, and we understand that this is possible with the current regulations. We want a mining that creates more value and creates more jobs in Galicia. Therefore, the Union implements a guaranteed and rigorous process that leads us to allow only those sustainable and respectful activities with the media and with the pre-existing activities, of course with the maritime-fishing activity. But it must also allow me, in this defence of the overseas fisheries sector, not to want cataclysmic apriorisms to enter which are not supported by the real data of the activity itself. That is why, following this assured and rigorous nature, I can tell you that the exploitation project, the restoration plan and the study of the environmental impact of the Touro landfill are following the ordinary processing procedure, according to which the autonomous legislation, which includes fifteen sectoral reports and the declaration of environmental impact. That is why it will be strict compliance with the applicable legality — which offers all urban, environmental and technical guarantees — the only one that determines whether or not the new mining project can be approved. The neighborhood and the Arousa Sea sector can be sure of that. Also, be sure that the Intemar will act, as it is, and as it is, as a tool of monitoring and control. But if this activity didn't even start, you'll understand that it wouldn't even be serious to start talking about the possible affect. So I end up with the same message as there is a moment: guarantees and rigour in the procedure and, above all, in relation to the middle. To the fishing sector of Arousa I want to convey peace. They know they have a transparent formula of communication and permanent information on this matter and so we'll continue to work. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u379	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u380	What the sector wants, Counselor, is that this project doesn't go ahead. The rest of what you just said is cheap chatter. Look, as sea councillor his priority had to be to protect and preserve marine resources and protect and preserve people from the sea. And far from doing this, you've just been working on minimizing risks, throwing balloons out and hiding behind a technical report. You know that a government has the law, and in this case the law requires sectoral reports that you have to issue and that, if these are consistent with the law that this file is being processed, which is fortunately not the shady law that you have made with the law of depredation, the binding report that you issue can paralyze this project. And far from doing this, you're hiding behind a technical report. A government has legal instruments, but it has political instruments. And you're here today, instead of getting on the side of the sector, what you've done, once again, is to be profiled, as if you didn't have to say anything. Look, what happens if you break a raft? We don't have to go too far; we already have examples; we have the example in Galicia of the raft of Carballo, of the raft of San Fins. Is that about Aznalcolar? This, which were the same arguments and in the face of popular pressure, had to go back. Look, you refer to the channels of communication with the Council. On December 13, with the representation of the sector that you chose — which you decided you could go — they had a meeting where you were present, the Industry Advisor and the CEO of Minas. Do you know what impression they took? The impression they took was that you were totally on the company side, the conclusion that you were taken was that you were doing middlemen of the company and that you weren't going to move a ball to defend the sea sector. And that's why the sector, which is up there today, is what you want to know is where the report of the Sea Council will go, a preceptive and binding report. Tell them!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u381	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u382	Don't look behind a technical report and be brave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, thank you. You've finished your shift. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it. You've finished your shift. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it. It's over. [[Applause]] Question closing shift, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u384	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, don't get nervous, don't change. I know perfectly well that my responsibility is to protect people from the sea and to protect the resources of those who live from the sea. And don't worry, I'll always be careful to keep my work in that direction. [[Applause]] But you can't come here today to deceive anyone. You can't come here today to say that my Council has to make a preceptive and binding report. Because you know - and you must know it very well - that the Galician Mining Law, which was made during the bipartisan Government - and I remind you that you had something to do with that law, precisely does not ask for any report from the Council of Fisheries or the Sea. I don't have to make any binding reports. But don't worry, that's not the important thing. The important thing is that all sector reports that need to be done are the only ones that are going to have the weight to decide whether or not this project can go forward. You don't fool people, Mrs. Prado, because you're here today I think you come to demonize an economic activity, mining. And you yourself, when you were delegated to the Industry Council and participated — I suppose — in the drafting of the Mining Law, already recognized in the first line of justification the need to make the law that mining was a very important social and economic activity for this land. And you know that when you were delegated to the Industry Council in Pontevedra province, you approved, no less, four mining research projects and approved, no less, eleven mining projects. [[Murmurs.]] I suppose those projects had all the necessary technical reports. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u385	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u386	And it's not gonna be me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u387	Quiet. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u388	Mrs. Prado, if we're here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u389	Quiet. The counselor is in the use of the word. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u390	Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u391	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u392	Don't! Here the only one who doesn't lie is me, eh! The only one who doesn't lie is me. I don't have to make the binding report, which you're telling the people I have to do, when you can read the law and you'll see that the Fisheries Council doesn't have to issue any reports. [[Murmurs.]] Someone's lying to you. [[Applause]] I'll never get caught in a lie, Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] I tell him you know the law very well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u393	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u394	The law says that mining is an important and social economic activity for Galicia and that in that sense, and with the greatest regard to the environment, a very technical processing of the law is necessary. We must respect the law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The project is submitted, all reports are requested. On January 10, we held, as you well say, a meeting with the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, and myself with representatives of the sea sector, where the presidents and secretaries of the confrraternity federations were concerned, where the Mexican Commission was in full. There was no veto for anyone. And he offered them to keep all the meetings that they wanted to go along step by step... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u395	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u396	...all the information that was to be obtained. So — I repeat once again — quiet and maximum with respect to the law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-02-07-DSPG059.u397	It ends here a bad day, a bad day at least for me. And I, of course, will do what I'm going to do is apologize on behalf of everyone, because the people who are watching us don't deserve this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing else, thank you very much. Good night.
