ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u1	Good morning. We are going to restart the meeting with agenda item 6, which corresponds to questions for the oral reply of the President of the Union. Before its processing we greet the first-year students of the Center of Fondation, the upper cycle of Administration and Finance and the upper cycle of Assistance and Management, of the Coruña. Welcome to Parliament. And now if we start with the questions for the oral answer of the president of the board. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Union of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the change of the German Government's forestry and rural policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u2	First of all, you have the word Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, we're at the door of the fire risk season and the conclusion we've reached can't be more alarming. If Galicia today had lived a wave of fires like the one she suffered last October, the tragic consequences could have been the same. It's scary to think, but it's like that. Galicia is still as helpless as last year when she was burning on the four sides. And it remains equally defenceless because you did nothing real to mark one before and one after the catastrophe, nothing real to change a policy of abandonment of the mountains and the countryside, nothing to rectify a pyromanian forest policy of thirty years of absolutist governments of the People's Party. Any responsible politician would have started working since the zero minute by promoting structural changes so that Galicia would be in better conditions to deal with the fires, but you took a run forward. First he was thrown into the terrorist plot to circumvent his responsibility, even though he denied it to the Prosecutor's Office. Second, one more year we have a Pladiga that presents itself late and ill, without consensus and repeats the scheme of the cut and paste, without analyzing what failed to learn from the mistakes, and all when we are faced with fires of new generation in full climate change. It also doesn't increase staff and maintains a fragmented and precarious device that can't do prevention work all year round. Third, we're on April 25, and the municipalities, which are economically suffocated, don't have a single euro from Galician Union to run the security strips in housing and infrastructure; that is, nothing done except to throw balloons on the roofs. Fourth, nothing improved in emergencies. And we must not forget that public media blackout in full catastrophe. And finally, in your "deb" we have a forest plan that we're receiving is more eucalyptus -- again the turning doors of Ence and corruption in "A" -- a nonsense on a mountain that exceeds 230,000 the expected hectares of eucalyptus, and of them, 35,000 planted illegally on land land. [[Applause]] It is a forest plan that also aims to privatize and seize mountains in common. Finally, there is no real and effective measure, so Galicia is still equally defenseless today in the face of a wave of fire, just as helpless as it is in the face of the greatest environmental challenge we have. I already want to tell you -- and that it's very clear -- that in the BNG we have the hand held to bring solutions and give a debate at the country level. The question is whether you are willing to change course and be able to meet what this challenge needs and what Galicia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, you know that we have, from the beginning of our responsibilities, tried to fight against the minifundism of property in Galicia. You should know that in Galicia there are 11 million rustic plots, that nothing more and nothing less than the average of these 11 million rustic plots is 2,500 meters, that in Galicia there are more than 1.660,000 catastral holders and that 25% of the population of Galicia, for example, owns a small forest plot and that, in addition, much of that population does not live in rural areas. Unfortunately, it seems that you, ever since you came to the opposition, have forgotten your own decisions. I have no drawback to remind him of our own. We are a great masonry power, no doubt, and we have a great problem of property atomization. And against that we've been fighting since we had responsibilities in the government. First, with a new legal framework, with three laws: the Land Mobility Act, 2011; the Mountain Law, the first Galician in thirty-five years of autonomy, of the year 2012; and the Land Structure Improvement Act, of the year 2015. Secondly, we have made a structural decision: Galicia is the only autonomous community where they are not paid to make transactions of permutation, purchase or sale of any rustic land on the whole of the autonomous surface. And thirdly, we gave the most important thrust of restructuring and agrarian concentration of any other legislation. Mrs. Pontón, you're talking about the environmental and environmental disaster in Galicia. You must refer to when you were managing the Rural Council, I am convinced of that -- in 2007, the Nationalist Block Galego --. There you are, Your Honor. That's already in memory of all the Greeks. You also speak -- always with absolutely demagogic character -- about the topic of eucalyptus. Look, Your Honor, the eucalyptus, without a doubt, must regulate it. You guys didn't do anything, absolutely nothing. They've been discussing and criticizing the eucalyptus for four years, but measures, zero, zero, measures in relation to eucalyptus. We specify the most restrictive distances for eucalyptus plantation. We regulate the masses of native leafy ones, so that all those of 15 hectares or more and at an average age of twenty years cannot be the object of planting pine trees and eucalyptus. We keep making decisions, and the easiest thing is to move from eucalyptus plantation to agricultural land, not the other way around. And, Your Honor, we continue to make decisions in relation to the eucalyptus and you should know that the forest plan proposal is a minimum, witness, growth of the eucalyptus: from 15.17% now to 16.4% in the future. That's right, we've increased more than 5 points by the masses of pine trees, we've increased the forests of leafy trees to 19.75% of the total surface. And so, Your Honor, what we can say is that, for the first time, there is a policy about what I hope you, since you talk about a lot of tender hands, you can at some point put it into practice by supporting what we are doing in the forest field. If I tell you, Your Honor, that all the measures we have taken at the meeting that I had the honour to do in Parliament after the weekend -- including hurricane -- of the October fires are all running, running or being accomplished. All of them! I'm telling you all! The first time there's a rural Aprol of more than 7 million euros in Galicia is now. The first time we're buying tractors and tractors for the municipalities is now. The first time there are forestry workshops in Galicia is now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u7	And, by the way, Your Honor, let's keep working. Next week, a line of 8 million aids to buy machinery in the forest field. As you will see, Mrs. Pontón, we keep working.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u9	Mr. Feijóo, what is in the collective memory of everyone and of all is his picture with a mangerette and when this country burns on the seven sides. [[Applause]] Or his statements, Mr. Feijóo: "With us there were no people in the fires; with them, four people." [[Applause]] You will never see these statements by any political leader of the BNG. [[Applause]] And, indeed, it's also in memory what you did when you arrived at Galician Union. What he did is true irresponsibility. And he also did a sectarian policy. Because, by sectarianism, the Land Bank took over and paralysed its development. He's loaded the uxfors. By sectarianism, all the help there was for a multifunctional mount. By sectarianism, Mr. Feijóo, you've preferred to feed the fire industry rather than put in place measures that really gave you a change to the problems our country has. I'd like to -- I think it's complicated, but I'd like to -- that, on such an important subject, for once, you had stopped using the Bipartite wildling and that you had come out of that comfortable comfort zone that should give you your official car and see what's going on in our country. Because the truth, Mr. Feijóo, is that there are serious problems. And this is not solved by telling the opposition that what you have to do is support what you do. Because that's not a pact, that's to impose a model that, in addition, has a lot to do with the problem we have. Look, I'm convinced that coping with the problem of fires is not easy. It's very complex and it requires height of look, and it requires knowing what's working wrong and having the ability to do it. We've been ahead of you last year, Mr. Feijóo, who we wanted to talk about the forest plan. I myself sent him a letter, after the catastrophe that was going on in Portugal, so we could sit down and talk about the problem we had in Galicia. What was your answer? Silence and contempt for him when a political force is raising a country issue. And today, even though I repeat that scheme, we will continue to offer that there will really be changes in forest policy. We have proposals and I want you to allow me, please, Mr. President, to just say them in a minute -- in a very short way, as these debates might be --. It is necessary, in the short term, Mr Feijóo, that there be resources to execute the protection strips. Because it takes time until May 31st to the Town Councils and April 25th hasn't signed any agreements. You want to know what's going on in town halls? Look, As Neves: zero zone and 90% of the burned territory, and zero help from the Galician Union to the municipalities to deal with the problem of fires. We see how you're helping yourself recover. We need changes on the device, we need a device that depends 100 percent on the Galician Union, 100 percent public, professionalized and with single command. The mayors don't know the number, Mr. Feijóo. But there is also a need for changes in agricultural policy and forestry policy. That's why we told him that the forest plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u11	... -- finish -- talking about more eucalyptus can't be the solution. That's why we proposed a moratorium on eucalyptus plantations in those high-risk areas, the recovery of these 35,000 hectares illegally planted and that there is real support for implementing a new forest policy. Because the German mountain can produce wood, quality wood, but also a lot more. And finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u12	Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u13	...necessary spatial planning is required. And he has in his hand all the land management policies. Why not put in place an integrated territorial plan that orders the mountain and allows us to fight the fires?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u14	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u15	We have a plan on the coast. Why not a plan for the mountain that really allows us to cope with guarantees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u16	Thank you, your time is up, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u17	...the biggest environmental challenge this country has?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u18	Thank you. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. You were talking about sectarianism. Your Honor, sectarianism is to reach the Government and cease all District Chiefs and conquer over 100,000 hectares burned down for a year. That is the greatest sectarianism that is set in Galicia in forest matter. [[Applause]] Your Honor, sectarianism is, during this wave of fires, that the Government would continue on vacation. Sectarism is to say that the culprits of the 2006 fires were the mayors of the People's Party. That's the biggest sectarianism that collects the forest history of the autonomous community, and you're the protagonists. That's already on the Greek retina. That's why, of course, as soon as they had the opportunity to vote, they voted and threw them -- with "b" -- from the Government. Mrs. Pontón, you're talking about the protection lines, a law of the 2007 Bipartite, and they've done nothing about the protection lines. Not even with a euro did the mayors help with the protection lines. Your Honor, Fegamp has a proposal formally made by the current government so that for the first time, we will help all the municipalities to comply with a law of the Bipartite. Mrs. Pontón, for the first time the municipalities will have autonomous help to carry out the strips of protection, for the first time. [[Applause]] You speak, Your Honor, that we don't help the Town Councils, and put on the Snows. Your Honor, the housing aids in the Snows, the aids in the snows industry, the help to restore urban furniture, the help, the lordship, to replant the Snows, are paid or pending justification. As you don't know, Your Honor, I have no objection to giving you any information. I insist, they're paid or warranted. Since you want to call, why don't you call the Deputy of Pontevedra to buy something in the Neves, Mrs. Pontón? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Since you say there they command, why does the Deputy of Pontevedra put zero euros for the Snows and all the municipalities that suffered fires in Pontevedra? [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, please, a little respect for the truth. Mrs. Pontón, you're still poisoning the subject of the eucalyptus. What we propose from the total surface in Galicia to the eucalyptus for the next few years is 16%; the rest, leafy and pine. Why is it still continuously and constantly manipulating? Why, when you were in the government, didn't you make any decision with the eucalyptus and we are regulating, realising and limiting the capacity for expansion of the eucalyptus? Mrs. Pontón, I have no doubt that the most important structural measure that has adopted a Government of Galician Union in the last thirty years is to put zero taxes in rural areas; 26,000 Greeks paid zero euros for buying, for permuting or allying their assets. Unfortunately, the Bipartite was looking elsewhere, and we, in the midst of the economic crisis, have made the biggest tax downturn in history in the Brazilian rural environment, the biggest tax down in our history. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we are concentrating nothing more and nothing less than 163,000 hectares for the benefit of 121,000 families, moving from more than 1,200,000 plots to less than 200,000. That's called improvement and concentration, and putting value on the land in the autonomous community; 231 million euros are investing to counter the abandonment of rural areas in Galicia. We bought the first cameras in Galicia to monitor more than 40% of the total surface in the autonomous community. Your Honor, we keep moving. We created the first and only Welsh forest industry agency that has never been established in the autonomous community. Such measures have never been taken before in less time. If you had adopted at least one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u21	...that I have just mentioned, of course, Your Honor, that we would have gone better. But you cannot censor the work of the brigades, which we are going to expand; the work of the contracts, which we are going to expand; the work of the different managers of the brigades sector, which we are going to increase their wages. You can't in any case stand up and criticize what happened for 48 hours in Galicia during a fire strike in addition to a hurricane on the Greek coasts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u23	Mrs. Pontón, there's the data. We have in nine years less fires than you've had in three. Mrs. Pontón, that's the data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u24	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u25	Now, if you want to help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u26	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u27	...you know you have my tender hand. Why, for once, is BNG not involved in something that interests the Greeks? Why, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u28	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u29	I'm sure you're more interested in criticizing the Government than in supporting the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u30	Your time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u31	Don't worry, Mrs. Pontón, I'm here to serve the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the evaluation of the policies of the Galician Union in relation to postgraduate university studies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u32	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u33	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. I have for myself that the hangover of the unfinished Cifuentes case requires to put an eye on postgraduate courses and, in general, on the role of the university. Let me give you three considerations. The first is that all this tells us that college matters. After eight centuries it remains a central part in the society of knowledge. That's why it's so important not to destroy its foundations. The university is effort, merit and passion for the truth. It is freedom of thought and speech, quite the opposite of what the President of the Community of Madrid has practised so far. And the main consequence of that management is that it's attacking the values that underpin our university. Second consideration, let's not shoot the pianist. In Galicia the universities operate properly, they manage rigorously, with solvency, postgraduate courses and, of course, the degree. They're doing their essential function well. But the third consideration is that the masters distinguish. Today, social differentiation does not go through grade studies, it goes through postgraduate studies. That's why it's so essential that we can discuss their effectiveness and their democratization, their effectiveness to get our students to have a good place in their university studies in the labour market and their democratization to get everyone to have access to the postgraduates they want and we can better meet both public and business social needs. What's our concern? We are concerned, first of all, that the offer is insufficient. Today they go out of postgraduate courses in Galicia about 3,100 students, but they go out of grade degrees every year 8,000. We're at 40 percent of the grade degrees. In Spain, together, there are not 50%. We have an insufficient supply even today that we need to expand, not reduce. We need to expand that offer and the locks are excessive. Secondly, we have an obligation to produce internationally competitive masters. There are too many young people in Galicia who finish their degree and are looking out for further training, and we attract few people to the postgraduates we have in Galicia. We have little attractiveness, but it's not because we lack quality. It turns out that in doctoral studies this doesn't happen. In the doctorate we are able to incorporate international students, uniquely from Latin America. So let's also apply this to postgraduate studies. And thirdly, in a very important way, there are important barriers to access that hinder the democratization of the master and distance capable students. For every 1,000 requests from denied scholarships, there are a lot of people who stop doing these studies. There are only 2,250 requests for scholarships and 1,000 are denied. They are too many, because academic requirements and economic requirements are excessive. We need to incorporate more students into postgraduate education, we need to democratize access. That's why I'm suggesting that we start a complementary system of study aids from the Galician Union that allows no one to stay out of these studies and that we offer universities an offer to improve their international competence, the international competence of postgraduates that allows us to retain the most talent and attract another external. Because those who come here to study have more ease to continue working in Galicia as well. I'll make you a more specific proposal in my second speech, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. I hope you agree with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u34	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I am pleased that you bring an issue that we believe is of absolute relevance, as is education, and, very specifically, university education, where, of course, it has much to do with the future of the country in relation to the ability to capture and retain the talent of Greek from universities. I want to tell you that during times of economic recession, we felt proud of the coordination and responsibility of all the Greek universities; ultimately, of the Greek university system, of the three universities. With less resources, we have been able to adapt to European legislation and state regulations, and we have agreed to fund universities for the last eight years. You made a series of statements last Monday -- I want to remember -- and even today in your intervention, about the need to get involved in the reinforcement of postgraduate studies, about the need for democratization -- you just used this term -- access to studies. In my opinion, they're all right. The only drawback, if you'll excuse me, is that they're late. And they're late, Mr. Leicega, because we've been working with universities for years, and we've been working with universities for years: degrees, degrees, masters, funding, college consortium. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have, in fact, ensured the funding of universities over the increase in the public administration's budget. We've been making a map of updated and agreed titrations. And we also carry, Your Honor, nothing more and nothing less than a record -- which I think is important -- in the democratization of university studies, because Galicia is the cheapest autonomous community and therefore the Greek universities are the most accessible to acquire a degree from all over Spain. So, Mr. Leicega, I'm convinced that you -- that all this knows -- should congratulate -- and I'm going to do it -- the outgoing rectors and, of course, the incoming rectors, because we're going to keep working on this. [[Applause]] The increase, Your Honor, of funding from the Greek universities is not bad, because the increase, for example, in the last funding plan was 18 %. The funding of the Greek universities was 18% more between 2016 and 2020 -- 373 million more, 18% more --. It is not bad, for example, that in the percentage of GDP that Galicia is dedicated to universities we are the third autonomous community of the highest percentage of GDP devoted to the university system, the third largest, with 0.71% of GDP -- Spain's third largest --. It's not bad, Your Honor, the rationalization of titrations. We have a number of committed degrees, agreed, and a number of masters also committed and committed. There's a data, Your Honor, which I think you should review, because you just said that we have access to master in Galicia under Spain's ratios. No, ma'am, 29.8%, almost 30 %, of the Greek university students are studying the master's degree at the end of the grade studies, almost 30 %. And in Spain it's 21%, nine more points in Galicia than in Spain. And that seems to be a bad fact to you. I'm sure it can be more than 30%, but you'll recognize that we're much better in terms of GDP, in terms of funding and in terms of students who master than the average of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u37	I not only congratulate those who go out and those who enter, but even what remains, the headmaster of the Crown. We can congratulate everyone. [[Applause]] But I'm a little concerned about their purchasing, because education is a basic factor in progress and equality, it makes us live better, it rewards talent and merit, it's a social elevator. But the elevator is closed, and basically not because of what happens, above all, in grade studies, but in postgraduate studies, which are, as we now say, the interface between education and the labour market. And I think we have to work more there. The middle and most popular classes are concerned about the future of their children because they realize that they cannot compete with those who, having more resources, are able to ensure longer education -- and usually more successful -- to their children. And I think this is what we have to do, and this is what worries me. That's why I suggest, first of all, that we put in place a complementary system of study aids, because what you have is very limited, very small, very small. And with 5 million euros we could double the number of master's studies in Galicia, where, by the way, they don't have the lowest rates in Spain -- yes in the grade, but not in the postgraduate --. But, in any case, with EUR 5 million, they could double the number of pockets by virtually eliminating the economic barriers to access to the master and making our students more competitive. We need to develop an orientation system on the masters and an external student capture system more important than we do now. There's a problem, and there's a problem we can solve. And above all, we have to increase the supply and make it more competitive internationally. We have quality research in many areas, I don't have to repeat it. Why don't we use that core of quality researchers to also have an offer of postgraduate studies that can be competitive? Why don't we use the joint research units, the singular centers, the strategic groupings, to develop a quality offer, using funds -- which are already -- from Europe? If we can do this, we're going to have a gap in the international landscape and that's what we have to aspire to. I want to be a little more ambitious about what we're doing now, of course, yes, collaborating with the universities, who are doing their job. But from the political point of view, since the Galician Union, we can put more duties on them and be a little more demanding, and collaborate with universities to meet them. For example, interuniversity masters, which are a good idea, are poorly developed, because they force an excessive effort on student mobility. It's good that they work together at universities, but it's not right to force students to travel to study. We have to correct things, and that's what I ask you to do, that we correct what works wrong. We can do more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u39	...and we can do better, without compromising excessive resources. That's what I'm asking you from the opposition to Galicia to make a leap of quality and a leap in the democratization of access to master's studies by removing many of our families' concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u40	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. Mr. Leicega, you have had a great opportunity to be a great rector at the University of Compostela. You dedicate yourself to something else, and I'll cell it, because politics also needs trained people. But the truth is that all of this is what we are doing, Your Honor; but also by agreement and consensus. And we have done by agreement and consensus all that you have just reported now by the kid from his seat. Look, we're betting on quality, and quality is expertise. The Water Campus was created in 2014 in Ourense; the Campus Terra, in Lugo, in 2015; the Industrial Campus, in Ferrol, in 2014. And now we are committed to Campus Crea in Pontevedra; to Campus Innova and the Campus Sustainability in Coruña; to Campus Vigo Tecnologico and to Campus da Cidadanía in Santiago. All this is agreed with the rectors, in addition to the Campus do Mar, in Vigo. Your Honor, this is what we are doing in the field of specialization. But in addition, we have ten measures that we are putting into practice with the principals, with specific timetables; for example, for new degrees of interuniversity, the fruit of collaboration between universities. It is the first time in university history in Greece that two universities share a single degree, the degree of the landscape, the first time we have reached an agreement for medical studies in the autonomous community, the first time! I think that's what we need to value, and the Rectors are working hard and the Galician Union is doing its duty. For the first time, we will achieve degrees in English. And of course we're interested in the improvement of international rankings, and there are proposals from university autonomy that will be supported by the Galician Union. Of course we have a employability map, which is essential. Yesterday we presented in Vigo the first FP campus in the history of teaching in the autonomous community. We must seek employability and the relationship between industry, business, university and vocational training. Of course, Your Honor, we have to give top prizes to the best students, and so we do. More than 2,500 researchers currently in Galicia are working with funds from the Autonomous Community and receiving their payroll monthly in collaboration with the Community with universities. Of course we have to catch Ibero-American students. Is it possible that you don't know that the first time we're picking up Ibero-American students -- not from universities but from the United States -- are the more than 100 students studying your master's degree in the German universities through a proposal from the General Secretariat of Emigration? Yes, Your Honor, we are, for the first time. Of course, Your Honor, we have to look for new professional profiles. You talk to me about democratizing university education even more. I agree, Your Honor. I believe in the boys who study with scholarships, because I probably couldn't study if I didn't have the scholarship I had during my career. So I'm gonna keep working on this, no doubt about it. We have a proposal. We've been freezing college fees for six years. As soon as the principals take possession, we're going to make two more proposals. One is that this college course that's going to start freezing back to university rates -- it would be the seventh year of college fees freezing --. And, Your Honor, we are going to make another proposal: that the professional masters, those masters, we lower them and put them at the price of degrees. [[Applause]] It will be the biggest download of a professional master's degree that has never been in Galicia, of course, and in Spanish universities. [[Applause]] Of course, we have proposals, Your Honor, to continue to democratize university studies. And so, Your Honor, in Galicia 30% of the students make a master's degree, and in Spain only 21%; in Galicia we have the cheapest university rates for the grade of Spain and we can also have the cheapest professional master's degree in all of Spain. We'll continue to talk to the incoming rectors and, of course, to a responsible rector, as is the rector of the Crown. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G. P. de En Marea, about the level of use of all available resources to solve the problem of unemployment in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u43	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr Núñez, today we have come to ask you, first of all, about the employment situation in Galicia, about the employment policies of the Galician Union and, above all, about the budget execution in the field of employment. As for the balance of employment situation in Galicia since you ruled, since 2009, the balance is really worrying -- worrying not to say tragic --. They exist right now in the autonomous community -- at the end of 2017, exercise closed -- 140,000 busy less than when you arrived at the Galician Union, and 63,000 more unemployed, since you're at the Galician Union. And there has been a phenomenon during the years of economic recession, and we have been the fifth autonomous community where most jobs have been destroyed and now we are the second autonomous community where fewer jobs are being created. We live, more than in a work anomaly, in a true work tragedy in terms of incorporation into the labour market and health of the labour market. Since 2014, when we start creating jobs in Galicia, we live in a situation of absolute "precarious dictatorship." Precautionary employment is a job that has a high rate of temporality. 89 % of the work created since 2014 is temporary. Secondly, a high rate of low-wage temporality -- temporary employment averages 30 % less than indefinite employment -- and combined, in addition, at a high rate of labour deficiency. This is very important, we just got to know the data from 2017, which increased labor inequality in Galicia by 9%. So a situation, a balance, which we understand is very worrisome and a really tragic anomaly in relation to the evolution of the labour market: less busy, more unemployed, more precarious, women's precariousness -- that they also have 29% of wage cracks in relation to men by doing their jobs -- a situation that is notoriously worrisome. The role of a ruler and a government is, of course, first of all, to promote laws that guarantee quality employment and employment; secondly, to make public policies which are economically available for this to take place, because there are no employment policies without employment budgets. And here we wanted to get here to ask him the question. The first question -- which you ever answered on one occasion -- that we want to do to you is, are you satisfied with the employment situation in our country, the number of unemployed and unemployed people in our country? We know you're going to say no, you've said it more times. That's why we want to ask you about the state of execution on December 31 -- these are official data from the Galician Union and published -- because the Government of Galician Union left without spending 132 million euros on employment policies. Would you like to answer why the German Government, with this unemployment situation, leaves without spending EUR 132 million on employment policies? Don't you think that money could be worth creating jobs and creating quality jobs? I'm referring specifically to four games that everyone must recognize that they've stopped spending. In terms of improving employment and employability, 61 million euros are budgeted, of which only 34 were spent and 26 million euros are no longer spent, i.e. only 56 % have been spent. With regard to the promotion of employment, self-employment and the inclusive labour market, only EUR 101 million was spent 61, only 60 % was spent. In the field of vocational training for unemployed people, almost EUR 107 million was planned, leaving without spending 52. This means that only 49 % of the total was spent. And let's not say the last of the games, the vocational training of busy people, where there wasn't much planned anymore -- 11 million euros -- but only EUR 816.000 was spent, i.e. just 7% of the budget. The question is clear, Mr President. Why, with the unemployment rate in Galicia, with the emigration of new people who emigrate to foreign countries, do not implement budget policies on employment that would lead to better employment conditions in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u44	Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u45	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Sometimes I wonder, Mr. Villares, who does his papers. And sometimes I come to the conclusion that probably no one. In any case, in case you're interested in the data, of course I'm available, and it's my obligation to put it into practice. You're told that time employment has increased and employment has decreased indefinitely. False, 75% of Galicia's employment is undefined. You say that the sinisterness has increased. What increased was activity, the number of deaths decreased. You should be a little respectful. The number of deaths in occupational accidents has decreased. What has increased was the fallacy of other accidents, not as a result of death, especially accidents in the way; that is, when you go or get back from work. You should be a little strict when you give some data; among other things, to take it a little seriously. I'm going to make two statements about the execution of the budget. The first, the initial budget of the 2017 budget did you at least give it good? How much of the 2017 budget do you have? I'm sure you can give it to me in the replica, because your big captain's accounts are one nonsense after another. Each paragraph is a nonsense above the previous one. Initial budget: EUR 237 million. General Intervention Data: Real Commitment, 237.9. What does that mean? That we have 100 percent of the budget? -- that would be torturing, as you do --. No, because we had the incorporations of the previous exercise. So the initial budget plus the incorporations was 299 million euros, and over these 299 million euros, we committed 237 -- the total of the initial budget and 70% of the total of the global budget --. Exactly, Mr. Villares -- I repeat again -- what does the papers do to him? In addition to this, we have not only reached 70% of our commitment, but, as a result of our being one of the autonomous communities that we have made the most of our jobs, the Sectoral Employment Conference -- held last April 27th -- has increased our budget by 13%. There are autonomous communities, such as Andalusia, which after the ERE are unable to implement any employment assumptions. Yes, we are from the autonomous communities that we are most likely to execute in the field of employment. 70 percent is little or is it too much? In my opinion, it's quite improved. But, of course, to say what you say is just to take the hair of the Greeks. And, as you will understand, it is up to me to defend the Greeks in everything. Mr. Villares, if you knew anything about the labour market, you should know that social security affiliations fell in the last year of the Bipartite in 54,000 in a year. And you take the data you've got -- already EPA, whether it's social security membership -- the data, Your Honor, are that since 2013, for example, the number of social security memberships is more than 60,000 new memberships. Those are not questionable data, Mr. Villares. If you take EPA, if you're not interested in Social Security, unemployment has landed in Galicia in 89,950 people. And if you take the final unemployment data, today we have less unemployment than when I was President of the Union. Today we have 185,000, and when I got to Junta, 211,000. You must not mix demographics with unemployment, social security, affiliations, EPAs, unemployment registers, budget execution... Mr. Villares, you have a consistent line. Because if you have a consistent line, not only would I be able to understand what you want, but they would be able to understand it by their own companions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u47	Mr. Núñez, for such a long time as president, what a little precision! I'll do three killings before I answer. First of all, the data of labor sinality were offered yesterday, and today they are in the headlines of many media: the increase in labor sinality in Galicia is 9% -- in particular 9% for men and 8% for women --. So, if you like, discuss that with the corresponding branch ministry, not with me, that all I do is bring them to this House. Secondly, you've also talked about differentiated mortality from worklessness. Well, I'm sorry or glad you brought it too, because the data is even more dramatic. Because the rate of work mortality in Galicia doubles the Spanish average, which is an absolute drama with which you can't frivolize, as you do, trying to confuse. I spoke of sinlessness, but if you want, we're talking of mortality. That's the data. Thirdly, I'm talking to you about budgeted, i.e. recognized obligations, not commitments. Luckily I brought here the official board document, so you can't discuss it. Talk about this document. And about this document, when making the accounts, the starting point that I use and that I use In Marea are the actual credits. And these outstanding appropriations in programme 32 are EUR 305,903.116. That's the starting point. Then, with the recognized obligations -- not with the committed costs, with the recognised obligations -- there is a total, at the date of December 31, 2017, of EUR 173,460.007, with which the difference between an amount is another is EUR 132,857.109. Therefore, a 57% degree of execution in employment promotion in those four sections I have just reported to you. So you can answer why you're not running the amount of money that was planned for active employment policies. From a public point of view, don't you think it would be good to hire work guidance people to improve the itineraries of the unemployed? Wouldn't it be positive, in relation to the people of the building who were unemployed, that could be recycled in other sectors? Would it not be good if the associated companies were encouraged to establish new forms of work? Would it not be good to recover the youth currently emigrated abroad with active return programs? Wouldn't it be good for new people to come out of training if they gave them new job opportunities? And, of course, at this moment, we will also be heard by many entrepreneurs, many autonomous ones, who will ask themselves: with 132 million euros, how many active policies could not be done to encourage the recruitment, and indefinite recruitment, of quality? How many autonomous jobs could they have other better working conditions than they have right now? How much cooperative work could you be doing? How many unemployed or unemployed workers could you recycle to get another job? Look -- and with this finished already --, the degree of execution is 57% this year. But it's not new, because since you only run, on average, 63% of your own budget. What's going on is you're beating records down. This year's record, of only 57% of execution, is something that makes a whole population suffering, very much from unemployment and prevents it from reaching its dignity by the end of the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u48	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u49	Your Honor, I don't think you're listening to me clearly. I said sinality has increased because work has increased, first point. And I said that fatal accidents have come down, which you just forgot, has just forgotten. O Allah! You're dedicated to getting the data as you like. And I am grateful that you no longer speak of unemployment, because, indeed, social security with 60,000 new affiliates, unemployment registered with 81,000 persons less unemployed and, according to EPA, with 89,000 persons less unemployed, is not bad, Your Honor. We arrived at the Government with a unemployment rate that was absolutely deconcentrated, with an unemployed unemployment rate of more than 50,000 memberships in a lost year, and it turns out we're now turning the marker around. Your Honor, you speak to me now of a budget committed and budget paid. But, Your Honor, what do you charge me with not paying what is not yet justified? Do I have to come to the House saying that I pay regardless of whether you're justified? I'll have to come to the House to see what money we have committed to active employment policies, but it's the companies that have to justify fulfilling commitments to have public money, Mr. Villares. There's no ERE here, Your Honor, there's no ERE hallucinques. Here comes the regulation. [[Applause]] We're not giving anyone any money here, we're watching over the money of the Greeks. And proof that we're watching for the money from the Greeks is that we've just had an increase in active employment policies by more than 13% this year 2018 because we're doing it on a fee basis. Therefore, Your Honor, do not deceive the Greeks again. The percentage of committed budget is 79.6 % on current credit, and on (...), 69.8 %. [[Intelligible.]] That's the data, Your Honor. If you want me to pay regardless of whether you don't believe in compliance, you talk to other head economists. Of course, with me there won't be a euro anyone who doesn't run 100 percent of the training program or the occupation program. You won't, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] I understand, Your Honor, that your execution policy is another, no doubt. Here comes a representative of the Tides of We can talk solemnly about the execution of the budget. All right, then, naturally, let me talk about budget execution when you rule. In the Coruña, investment chapter: not executed, 77.7 %. Not bad, Your Honor. Social income chapter: a budget of 3.7 million euros, between 2016 and 2017, and nothing more and nothing less than 394,000 were executed. [[Murmurs.]] Congratulations, Mr. Villares!, every day they perform more with absolute rigour. Acquisition of housing. Do you remember "Stop Waste"? Well, what you spent on buying housing was 30% of the budget. By the way, what housing is this, Mr. Villares? Is it about running the housing chapter by buying house for friends or is it about running the budget for non-money housing for friends to run the budget? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, is there any difference between your budget execution and ours? [[Applause]] Let's go on, Mr. Villares, let's go on. If you want, we'll go around Ferrol. In the public highway arrangement, 67% are not executed. And if you want to come to Santiago, you have to congratulate him twice. Not running on investments in Santiago, or... do you know the data? I'm sure you have all the settlement data. Because 78% of Santiago's investment chapter remained unexecuted. [[Strong murmurers.]] Mr. Villares, you won't say I didn't just help you with this replica, eh! [[Laughter]] Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u51	As has already been commented on by the spokespersons, we proceed with point 4 of the agenda, which is that of non-law propositions, with an alteration. We are beginning to debate the proposal in second place. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the rise of tariffs for the fees of the AP-9 planned for the year 2018 on the occasion of the works of the extension of the motorway on the bridge of Rande
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u52	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u53	Whenever you want, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning to the people who follow us, too, from the rostrum. Today we bring an initiative with the intention of changing the decision of a PP that again put the institutions on the opposite side of citizenship; this time -- and again -- on the Audasa side and the cost of the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks, the cost of also harming Galician social and economic development, with the increase in the rates of AP-9. When we talk about the AP-9 concession, we have to talk about political and entrepreneurship. We see a PP that does not hesitate to put all the meat in the roaster to increase the already indecent benefits of Audasa, 50% invoicing before taxes, or 80% in gross profits. A few months ago we suffered in Galicia another picture of the shame of the People's Party. We're talking, of course, about the inauguration simulation, the deferral opening, the inauguration in "b", the fraudulent opening -- you call it the way you prefer --, ultimately, an opening with the unfinished work so that Audasa can increase 1% of the fees by now 2018. That day added to the simulation M. Rajoy -- which has a name just like what appears in the papers of Basel, where supersoldes were allegedly pointed out in B in exchange for favors to friendly companies --, Feijóo -- Galician activist in intimacy, because with his form of government clearly shows to be militant of the People's Party and himself -- Alfonso Rueda -- the great negotiator of the Galician Union --, Iñigo de la Serna -- what forgot that the infrastructures in Galicia are important, that they need budgets and that they need to be executed above all -- and Ethel Vázquez -- who passed through there, everything seemed good to her, she put herself in the picture and defends what she was asked to defend -- because what is a proposal for the country's vertebration must be very tired and you came here for other issues. All in one for Audasa to start charging 1% more of the fees as before, because that's what was intended to inaugurate with the shameful picture of 30D, when Mariano Rajoy and Feijóo again put the institutions, which should be at the service of everyone, in service of Audasa's interests. And it will have to be asked in exchange for that, because there are two possibilities here: either the governments of the Council of Galicia and the State were deceived and told them that the works were finished when they were not; or it was the Government of the Council of Galicia and the Government of the State who cheated on citizenship saying that the works were finished. There are no more options than these two. And so far, by the interventions of the leaders of the People's Party, it seems they are the ones who are deceiving citizenship because they keep announcing that the fees will rise this 2018 and they do not criticize the inauguration of an unfinished work. According to the agreement of the Ministry of Development and Audasa, these works are being carried out by the company -- the concessionaire -- while the central government authorizes an increase in the rates of 1% during the 20 years following the year of completion of the extension work. That's the only apparent reason we see why you participated in this farce. If there's another one, you can clarify it in your intervention. The People's Party is unable to guarantee decent pensions, no sufficient wages, no adequate income, no present or future for the majority of society. But to guarantee the Audasa ballad, the PP is a good manager, and on that they walked the 30D, because the works were finished, which is said to be finished, obviously not finished. In the following days of the inauguration in B, and until today, those that we passed through the Rande bridge we could and can see vertical signs of works, horizontal signs of work, information panels of work, deviations of work, workers of work, areas of work restricted to citizenship, careers cut off or traffic by works, links of pending works to finish... which gives notice of this obviousness which only denies the People's Party: the work was not finished until December 30th, and the work remains unfinished today. And the important problem that the People's Party has is that people have eyes, that people who pass by realize that there are works, and you can't hide this as they do with so many other issues. That's why they haven't applied the 1% rise yet, because the outrage of the citizenry with this management is already great; to the people who pass by and see that their representatives have participated in this farce, of course, indigested him; and it was only necessary that, even above all, they would increase the price of the fees having to suffer all these inconveniences. That's why you didn't authorize, so the Central Government of the People's Party hasn't yet authorized the 1% rise, because the works are unfinished. The workers did not stop working on the so-called enlargement work on the 29th, nor on the 30th of December, nor on the 2nd, nor on the 3rd, nor on the 4th, nor on the next January; and there they follow. Which has already been denounced by neighbouring associations, local governments of Morrazo and of Rendondela, businessmen and all opposition parties. Only the PP has the courage to affirm and keep holding the opposite, things you will see! And with all that we've already seen, it's not the worst they've ever done. Some of the most visible performances in the days following the opening were the jobs in the new trumps or the exchangers to change the additional routes to the self-saver's body. They may continue to deny it, of course, but those of us who wanted to see it we could check it out in the days following the inauguration. It was a shame that the institutions that should look after our interests, in the face of those allegations that were being made, hadn't been there to check it out. An unfinished work of the so-called branchway enlargement work, which is actually the creation of two highways separate from the highway, which we can call additional roads, service roads, roads parallel to the highway, auxiliary roads; but we can't talk about the highway enlargement, which continues to count on two roads in each direction, and at this point there's only one. At this point, instead of having an extension of the highway, we have a reduction of the highway, and if not that it contains the neighbors and neighbors of the Morrazo, who can only use the additional road and prevent them from crossing the highway itself. These routes of service do not meet the requirements of a motorway, since they do not offer the benefits of a motorway or the travel experience on a highway; ultimately, of the conditions that a highway must meet. Without the possibility of changing lanes, as the mayors and mayors of the Morrazo have already reported, who cannot use another lane that is not the additional one. So they currently have a reduction in capacity. This work is in no way an AP-9 extension, as it is not attached to the AP-9 body. We will also have to discuss whether it is possible to rise the rates by an extension of the road which is not such, since the final result is not the enlargement of the highway. And I will set a visual example for dommies, because it seems that there are Members and Members of the People's Party who do not agree with this. When you go on a highway you go along a lane, and you can never imagine that you can't move forward. On a highway you're going on a lane, the forward car goes slower than you and you can move that car forward at a speed, of course, below the speed allowed. On that road you can't do that, and that's a fundamental feature of a highway. Another clear example also for dummies -- so there's no doubt about it -- : if you're going through a highway on a highway and if you'd run away or if for the vehicle ahead of you, of course, what goes back can do away... can't you, Mr. Fernández Prado? [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] You'll intervene later and then explain, and tell us how you're doing in that lane. If you go through that lane and the vehicle forward to, the back one has to stop. On a highway, if a vehicle for a road, there's obviously more roads to move forward, that's a fundamental feature of a highway; therefore, additional roads are additional roads, they're not self-sustainment. The plot of the inauguration in B of a false enlargement of the highway might lie in a timely, intolerable but timely deception, but the case is that it is another drop in a glass that has been overflowed for a long time because of the neoliberalism of friends of the People's Party, who has the Audasa expressing Greek citizenship and obtaining indecent benefits, own from a monopoly, and which counts with the complicity of the rotating governments. And this new climb comes when Audasa is getting 50 percent profits before taxes, when on average the country's companies are 7%. And you, far from working to lower the fees against the indecent profits, take part in an inaugural simulation to help Audasa increase her profits as soon as possible. Audasa has already gained 1 billion benefits so far, and their own estimates say that in 2048, thanks to the People's Party, they would exceed 6 billion euros of profits, which come out of the economy of the Greeks and the Greeks for international speculative funds. A bad deal that makes the People's Party for the Greeks and the Greeks, a great deal for those who share the profits and those who go out with them in the pictures. Audasa still doesn't pay for the EVI in the municipalities for what's going on, and those of the photos are quiet. Audasa is fully dedicating the benefits of sharing dividends while giving the worst service of the state, and those of the photos are quiet. Audasa is the motorway dealership that has more claims year after year, doubles the second, and triples the third, and this happens because it has the worst worker ratio, after firing more than 100 workers in recent times, while the photos look elsewhere. We'll have to ask ourselves why the director of Audasa, Mr. Muntaner, achieves a wage improvement just after reaching an agreement with the PP government in 2013, being Ana Pastor Minister of Development. And we're not talking about a small raise, Mr. Muntaner doubles his salary in 2014, by charging 87,000 euros in 2013 -- which was good enough -- to charge 172,000 euros in 2014, after reaching an agreement with the People's Party. It seems that the shareholders of Audasa are very pleased with Mr Muntaner's agreement with the People's Party, which, of course, should not be so happy about citizenship. I'm done. Audasa is a round business for its shareholders. The formula is simple: being a monopoly that exploits a public concession to a friend government, with abusive charges and reduced costs, which makes 81 gross profits out of every 100 euros billed. I hope that the PP will be robbed of dignity or shame, whatever it is, and approve of this initiative. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u55	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. As far as AP-9 is concerned, at this point some things have become clear. The first is that the People's Party has vetoed the law of AP-9 unanimously passed in the Greek Parliament and has not done it once, but has already done it twice. It is clear to us, therefore, that the German People's Party is not trustworthy, because it votes for something here and against it in Madrid. And always, besides, against the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. The second point that has become clear is that the agreements of the German Parliament for the People's Party are useless, because they act in submission and servitude to the orders of the People's Party of Madrid. They act like palanganeiros, like run-and-diles, would say how [...] but it's a forbidden word, you can't say in this rostrum. [[By order of the President and by the way of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u57	Exactly. Then he's already retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u58	He's already retired. I didn't get to say it because I said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u59	No, no, he said it, but so elegantly, with a lot of scratch. He's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u60	They act as useful fools -- which I suppose can be said -- of the Madrid PP, of Audasa and of the corsary background, which is who really pays off the spoils of the fees. The third question that became clear is that the fraudulent opening of December 30 was a farce, it was a mockery and a lack of respect. And the truth is, you have to recognize that you are innovative about the openings, because you're actually opening up a foothill. But, of course, you have to recognize the invention, because in March the Minister of Development came, and since there were no works, he opened the spring. And the lack of works always leaves the stations to be able to open them. The reality is that Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Minister of Development and Mrs. Pastor came here on December 30th to take a picture, left us and left us with the rise of the fees, with the inconveniences and the disturbances of the works of Rande Bridge, which follow, four months later, still unfinished. The neighborhood of the Morrazo and the people who this weekend have been holding hostages for more than eight hours there. Anyway, I want to remind you -- in case you're tempted -- that you can't raise 1% of the fees in 2018 because you expressly prohibit the 2011 agreement that your 6th clause says you have to apply those increments to the next year. And so until 2019 at least they won't be able to apply it. The fourth point that has become clear is that the concessionaire is gaining more and more: this year more than 40 million euros. He's a real philanthropist, he earns more from the increase in taxes, from the bonus of the EVI, from all the surpluses, from all the favor treatment he receives from the governments of the People's Party. And also the truth is that the state borrows large amounts of money from the AP-9 account. We were also made clear -- the fifth question that became clear -- that the AP-9 is the state's most-claimed highway, which has continuous restraints, jams and nuisances on Rande's bridge, but the first file has not yet been opened. We're waiting for the first informative and sanctioning file to be opened. Some have announced it, but none have yet opened it. And it would also be a good thing if they opened a file and fined the dealership. Because here the only people who were fined was militants and supporters of the BNG who protested by the scam, protested by the outrage, protested by that hoax of the opening of December 30th. And what we have to tell them is that, because of the many fines they're putting on us, of course they won't stop us, and we're going to continue to denounce this outrage. The sixth question is that even though there are many areas in works -- that you really should call AP-9 the AP-9 gincan, because you have to go around making maneuvers to mock all the obstacles that put us in the way, it's incredible! -- the reality is that no fee reduction system has been established to compensate for these inconveniences that we suffer from users. And this is another amendment that we propose to this initiative. Finally, the seventh question that has become clear to us is that AP-9 is not transferred to Galicia by votes and by the veto of the People's Party, because it has not admitted the process of this law passed by the Greek Parliament on two occasions. And now they've just received a varapau from the Constitutional Court and also from the Legal Counsel of Congress, which tells them they're making abusive use of veto capacity by the Government in the processing of laws. That is why the BNG has already announced here that it will bring back to this Parliament the adoption of this law. But we're not going to bring her with you because I'm not trustworthy. We are going to put it back in this Parliament, hope that it will be approved again, that it can be dealt with and that they will not apply that abusive veto. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we're not going to make it easy for you, make it clear. We're going to persist, we're going to insist, we're going to bring this issue back to debate until we get the goal of the transfer to Galicia of an AP-9 Galician and free from abusive fees. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u61	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is to intervene on Wednesday morning, right after the questions to the president, it always broadens the boundaries of knowledge. I say it every day. I don't know which political economy manual Mr. Feijóo studied in his law degree, but budget execution in the public economy, in the Spanish public financial system, is: recognized obligations on underlying credit. This milonga of the committed credit is exactly the same as the multi-annuality of Mr. Industry Counsellor: a hair boot and an insult to the intelligence of citizens. So recognized obligations on current credit, that's budget execution in the Spanish public accounting system. [[Applause]] And in the meantime, the other one is a lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u63	We're going to Rande Bridge. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u64	It has absolutely to do with the works...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u65	Quiet, quiet, I'm talking to Mr. Losada. We're going to Rande Bridge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u66	The Rande Bridge, as it is a work that was also executed budgetarily, is absolutely relevant to observation. Because what can't be called idiots... It cannot be, it cannot be called imbeciles to Members and Members. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It can't be that if he calls us idiots, it can't be! [[Applause]] That's good! It can't be! Mr. Fernández Prado, I don't know if you like being called, I don't. [[Murmurs.]] I don't like being called an asshole. And the budget execution in Spain is: recognized obligations on vigil credit, say Mr. Feijóo whatever he says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's all right! Okay, we moved on to AP-9 and its execution. Indeed, the Ministry of Development has already said that the date of completion of AP-9 expansion works was April 2018. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs Ana Pastor has clearly opened up the possibility of acting in three shifts, etc., intensifying the constructive process, the unfoldment, so that they would finish before. In February 2017 he delayed him two months and spoke already in February 2018. They went on with 24-hour jobs, 3 shifts, etc. It's true that there was this little detail that, if it wasn't inaugurated before December 31st -- pure chance -- they couldn't apply the climb, and say that a rather frequent user, for obvious reasons, of this bridge. The fact is that this constructive intensity has been truly amazing. I remember in the months of October, November, that both in the morning and in the evening, you passed by night and gave the feeling that you were approaching the Galactic, because the reflectors that were on the bridge of Rande in the constructive process were supercollars; and when you took the curve towards Santiago-Vigo, truly spectacular. It's very sad that now that they've been working, they've been working for four months, the shifts are slower and less lighted. It's true that the days have grown a little, but, of course, two, one, they're not the three that were. So it would be very nice if you could explain the reasons for this little mishap. Reasons have to do with an absolute market position of AP-9. So, at the BOE on January 31, 1979... I'm talking about the BOE because since yesterday we also had to bring the BOE in order to prove that non-contributory pensions were promulgated by a socialist government, despite what the experts of the People's Party were saying... the provisional regulations on Atlantic Highway Services -- I mean, provisional regulations 1979, that is, almost 40 years ago -- it's still vigilant -- I know we've ruled many... many, not two actually, but it's still vigilant -- with which, something should have to say. [[Applause]] We're talking about a stretch that actually reaches the 60,000 vehicles a day, probably the highest intensity of the whole AP-9. We are talking about the trouble of the works of which the Voicer of En Marea spoke, that we all live. We're talking about the absolutely unjustified lack of anti-fraud panels in areas where housing is less than three metres from the highway. So we're basically talking about discrimination. And as we're talking about it, we're talking about a company that invoices 120 million euros a year, which has a profit rate of about 30%, which is not bad at all, it's a market thing that is said. Almost all small companies in this country have 30 % or more profit rates! So we're talking about a real economic bean. Socialists ask that the rights of users be respected, we ask that the rights of AP-9 workers be respected, which is an endangered species in this process of constant mechanization of fees. And at this point -- although we're going to support this initiative regardless of whether or not we accept the amendment of the BNG -- socialists are asking for something else, in which I know we don't agree with the proposed group. We ask that the free alternative between Vigo and Pontevedra be speeded up as much as possible through motorway A-57, A-59. Pontevedra is the only Spanish province in which the one between the largest city in the province and the capital does not have a free highway. Haina between Xixon and Oviedo, there's her between Jerez and Cádiz. Unfortunately, in Galicia we're going back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u67	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u68	So we ask these things: respect for users and also a free public highway, free of charge, between Vigo and Pontevedra, and, of course, north to Coruña. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u69	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Cal, in the last few days, after hearing about the track of the Crown, the judgment of Teo, the video of Mr. Errejón talking about weaving a network of refuge for when they abandon the institutions, the fighting of Mrs. Biscay, now deposed for attempting to lead the party, Mr. Merlo stopped by direct command of Madrid, we're going to launch a joint group. The previous legislation we did, it was a shame. This is a joke directly... you chose the wrong day to come talk about shame, submission and seriousness. [[Murmurs.]] The next time you pretend to do this, at least you start your intervention by saying, "You know what you said... it would be very much to thank you." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, let's talk about some basic concepts that I think are interesting. The first one, Rande's bridge. Let's make some history. The Rande Bridge, for what you don't know, was inaugurated on February 7, 1981. What was recently inaugurated was an extension. As the photos are fashionable, we're going to put two here. This is Rande's bridge. I'm not gonna break it, don't worry. [[Murmurs.]] This is Rande Bridge, four lanes. This is the expanded Rande bridge, six lanes. I know you say it's not extended because Rande's racing is floating in the air, this engineering innovation that Mr. Cal invented. So, it's important, it's important. And this is important to link it to a basic legal principle that I know you're going to sound strange, which is that of pacta sumt. I mean, contracts have to be fulfilled according to the terms in which they are signed. I know that you have to keep the word, seeing what you've assembled in the group, it's something that's a bit strange to you, but that's what's normal; right now it's normal. Why aren't the works executed, why didn't the works of Chapel be executed, why didn't they...? Because they weren't in the contract. Why weren't they...? I know, Mr. Losada! You'll know, because you signed it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, by the way, who also told us today some questions and asked about the handbook the president was handling. I hope it's not the same manual where 3.8 million unemployed, pensions freezes and a country's breakdown are a cause of pride for a political group. I hope it's not that manual! Look, I need to clear up some things I think they've lost. The works of Rande that were expanded are the works that were done on the additional routes, and those works are executed and paid. By the way, not by budget execution, Mr. Losada, no, because what you signed is that you had paid them Audasa, and it's a private work. That's right, a private work that we're all going to have to pay through 1%. By the way, not 2%, Mr. Cal, you don't benefit Audasa. 1 %... In your PNL you put 2 %, read it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] One percent that we're going to have to pay for twenty years -- by the way, regardless of whether you start to pay this year or what's coming, the problem is that it's twenty years --, with 8% of the annual benefit for courtesy of the gentlemen, outraged today, of the Socialist Group. By the way, who chaired the company, the title, was a former Secretary of State of the Socialist Group. I'm saying it's about the turning doors and so on. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I know you guys have a problem with this asphalt. You want works kept but without asphalt. You guys in the asphalt have some kind of allergy or something. I understand that's a certain problem and they have other alternatives. Its alternative is simply not to asphalt, it's called the Compostela model, we all know it. It's a model in which they changed the execution of track maintenance to seek... I don't know... alternative tourism. We knew adventure tourism, mountain tourism, hiking, barranquism, and you opened fire. Focushanquism is a new model of tourism. Of course, we have everything: there are fireflies, fireflies, the drinking firefly, the pond firefly, the Olympic firefly, the archaeological firefly, the firefly, and yesterday we discovered a new firefly which is Teo's megafochanca, which is indeed the way to manage with public companies. For the ball, Mr. Cal, not the one from Audasa, for the ball what he took Viaqua in Teo thanks to the management of his idolatrous lord such... finally, you created up to a new urban tribe, The Fochankers. [[Applause]] We've got picklers already, it's a great thing! It is true that Santiago's seals are measured in shells and Teo's seals are measured in millions of euros that are going to have to pay Teo's citizens. Look, really, I think there's an essential difference between the Bipartite and the current government over the AP-9. What did we do? Then be demanding. We're asking for the transfer. By the way, the BNG representative of incoherence was speaking because we voted one thing here and another in Madrid. BNG's incoherence, which voted one thing here and then voted exactly the opposite here, in the same place, that's indeed incoherence! By the way, if you're going to use the term "useful tones," it's a little consistent, because only a few months ago that term was an intolerable offense when you were dedicated to it, of course! It was an intolerable offense and action had to be taken. Look, I want to be serious, and as we're going to be serious, I say, we're going to be demanding how we went so far, creating a joint commission, demanding the state that it had assumed 50 % of the price in the shadow that it paid the Board without having to pay it, compromising that future investments will go through the budget and not through other ways...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u72	...calling for the removal of Rande's peas. Finally, we are going to be demanding, and that is why you accept the amendment that BNG tabled and if we allow ourselves to vote by points, we would accept it because it seems to us a reasonable proposal. Anything else seems like a joke to us. By the way, two considerations... I'm done, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u74	I'm done. Congress is already reconsidering what you call a veto. So I didn't come here to breast-feed for a review that's already being done on its own. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And another thing for which I earnestly ask you, Mr. Bara. You didn't fine him in a protest for freedom of expression, you put him in a traffic ticket. Yes, yes, exactly that. [[Murmurs.]] It's like a gentleman comes here to drive drunk and tells us he's been fined...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u75	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u76	...to defend the protest against the dry law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u78	Be a little serious and stop doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u80	...[...] Please! [[By order of the President and by the way of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u81	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u82	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u83	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's interesting, I didn't hear that. Well, if I'm helped by the services... what was the expression used, Mr. Pazos? I am told that the word [...] was used. In any case, I beg you to remove this expression here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No one here does [...]. Or nobody should. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That expression is withdrawn. I didn't hear her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So it's also good that once in a while the Bureau services help me with this. We continue. Mr. Cal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u84	Thank you very much, President. The People's Party has just shown that you have cement stomachs -- I don't know if this can be said, Mr. President --. Braveness has no limits. I, in my intervention, focused on the question of AP-9. Right now you might be talking about Cristina Cifuentes' case and what you're stealing from vice, because the creams are already vice. Yours is vice! [[Applause]] Vicious for stealing. I could talk about that in my first intervention, but I wanted to focus on AP-9. When you have over 900 defendants, when you are involved in dozens of corruption cases that cost you tens of billions of citizens, when you have the cases of Mouse, of computer destruction, of Basel, of Ignacio González, you have the nerve to come here to talk about Base and Erregón. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you have a dare that's brutal! You have no shame...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u85	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u86	They're not ashamed! We haven't come here to steal, that's the big difference with you. We didn't come here to steal!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u87	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u88	The model Compostela. You speak of the Compostela model. We are very proud of the Compostela model. Before there was a government that was charged in its entirety and now there is an honest government. Of course we're very proud of the Compostela model! Are you proud of your model of Compostela, of your accused government? Are you proud of the Compostela Government of the People's Party, which was imputed in its great majority, to the gifts of the sacrificial? Are you proud of your model of Compostela...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u89	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u90	Well, if you're proud, fantastic! We already know what you're going to do with politics! We know perfectly well!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u91	Let's go to Rande Bridge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u92	With regard to A-57, very briefly. We are also in favour of a high-capacity route from Pontevedra to Coruña, so we want you to release AP-9 to have that high-capacity free-to-peak route from Pontevedra to Coruña, with which we would be delighted. So we agree, that's why we believe that we should release AP-9, which does not take away the fact that there must be some timely action somewhere and expand. But we think the first step should be to release AP-9 and then see where you need to do some kind of enlargement. With regard to the amendments of the BNG, we are going to accept both of them, they seem completely consistent. We're not going to take a point vote because if you want to open a file for retentions and apply discounts on us, man! you're in the AP-9 commission, you're in the Government, you can do it directly, you don't need a point vote to vote here. You have a bit of dignity and shame, which you already had to do directly from the Council of Galicia. I don't know why they're on that AP-9 commission! What are they for? They're not for nothing! They're contemplative. They don't need a point vote to do that. They should have done it by now. Logic! If we're having all the retention problems that we have... there are people who came this morning from Vigo and were able to check that you had to eat restraints to come to this plenary, it's logical that they already had an open file, I don't know what they're waiting for. Obviously, I know why they don't, because of the conviviality you have with Audasa. And applying discounts in works has the whole sense of the world. If you want to extend the fees, because the highway is improved, because when it gets worse, it's logical that they go down. And with regard to the financing of the highway, you're the only ones who keep the indisputable. There were visible works, that we could see them any of us without entering there, without being technicians, new works in the tyrants and works in the exchangers in January, we were seeing him. The asphalt began in February, and it is also a consequence of its own work. Everyone we went through saw how the machine left... yes, yes, we all saw it. I came. I don't know if you've been there -- another thing is that you're lying --...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u93	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u94	...but I passed by and came. It's like in your house they're changing the bathtub through the shower plate, they're putting the dhucha plate and they're telling you there, the work's done. Obviously, they'll have to finish all the defects, so asphalt is done. You have no shame! Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u95	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Before we move on to the next non-legislation proposal... Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, those are colloquial expressions. They're expressions without evil. I'm going to say hello, which I think is important, to the students at Eduardo Pondal de Vigo. They're fifth and sixth primary students. Welcome to Parliament. Non-law proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members, on the launch by the Government of Greece of the actions necessary to achieve, before the end of 2018, the free regular public transport of passengers by road competed with the autonomous community for young people, in conditions similar, at least, to those of the New People's Card
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u96	There are two amendments, one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u97	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. First of all, thank you for the presence of young people and girls from several villages in Galicia who today wanted to accompany us from the Tribune. Thursdays who are interested in knowing why a situation that discriminates against them in front of other Thursdays, and who, in any case, trusts that their demands are being met today. We have to remember here today how the Galician Union instituted, at the end of 2016, the application of freeness for new people in the metropolitan transport of Galicia, i.e. the public transport service by bus competition of the community, which provides its services in the territory currently nucleated around some of the large cities of Galicia, such as The Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago and Lugo. The known as a blue card is an answer that we understand useful for all those Thursdays in the metropolitan areas, but this decision of so plausible shocks, however, with the decision that this measure has not been extended also to the less urban environment of Galicia, precisely in a legislation that, according to public statements by the President of the Galician Union himself, was called to become the legislation of rural areas. And yes, I say I was called to become because really no measure has been seen until the moment that I seriously push that rural, and much less among the young people. Communication transport policy is crucial, from our point of view, to support equal opportunities, and especially among the most young, those who will have to value the decision to stay in rural areas in the near future. None of the Thursdays that accompany us today can understand why for rural areas not close to urban areas, precisely where the most scarce is the provision of services, and thus less is the accessibility, there is no formula comparable to the New People's Card that places them on equal opportunities with the rest of young users of Galicia. Today, we would therefore like to express the discrimination that these rural Thursdays are suffering, precisely by being displaced and excluded from the transport policies of this government, and by proposing the solution for them to finally be taken into account. I have to remember here that the two-party government put in place on its day transport initiatives for Thursday as it was on Thursday; a measure that was primarily for the safety of Thursdays, with the substantial improvement of the numbers of killed and injured, especially on weekends. What is particularly relevant to this debate today is that it has been set up without discrimination in geographic areas. Nearly 200 lines allowed them to move to the youngest, not only in the metropolitan areas, but also among the towns of the Italian countryside. Thousands of young girls and boys benefited from this measure, and thousands of Greek parents and mothers who slept quieter at night. Quietness that they lost when this government decided, in 2010, to nominate this program despite its success; a program that amounted to something more than four million euros in 2010 and which was abolished in the budgets in 2011, claiming that it was a difficult expense to assume, therefore not understanding the importance that as a road safety measure it had. I would also like to remind you here today that the youth law itself, adopted in 2012 by this government, establishes, in its introductory part, justifications that, at least for the same reason, can be applicable to public transport by buses of youth in rural areas. This means that it is necessary to strengthen the transversality and coordination of public policies in the field of youth by incorporating new actions that must, among other measures, bet on improving the quality of life of children and youth through the promotion of mobility with the use of public transport, offering people new especially favourable conditions. Moreover, in its Article 29 it refers to the purpose of service meats to youth, and expressly states that different meats, whose recipients are young and young, will be promoted to promote their access to services of a cultural, sporting, recreational, consumption, transport and others of a similar nature. I don't know you, but in this article 29 that I have just verbalized, I find no reference to discrimination between young people and girls in rural areas with respect to urban areas, which is exactly what is happening today with the New People's Card. The Socialist Party cannot applaud a law or measures that favour any kind of unequal treatment. And the problem is certainly not in the law, which we see entirely appropriate, but in the application that is being made of it, which is what we want today to contribute to it, and to what we ask for the support of all groups. I don't think it's necessary to explain it, but if you underline that the reasons for the shift in rural areas are mostly obliged, because it's necessary to move to have access to all those services that are lacking in the vicinity, the difference from what happens in the more urban areas, where the provision of services is much wider and closer. From the Socialist Group we believe that today's proposal is perfectly viable and possible, especially because the steps taken to the New People's Card would be valid for the implementation of the same advantages in another type of line, beyond the subways. On the one hand, there already exists, for the general rates of permanent public services for the transport of passengers, the possibility of establishing discounts or bonuses, as already shown by the New People's Card. Hence, nothing is requested that does not exist anymore, but only for a part of users and users. Moreover, the discount formulas and the bonds were valid before the entry of the known transport plan; however, today, a boy from towns like Bueu or the Valdeorras boat lack these discounts, having the same tariff treatment as the rest of users. On the other hand, the progressive implementation of the system of aid to the exploitation of mobility, the SAE, in the services of permanent regular transport of people of general use by road in Galicia, is a system that should facilitate, not to say to make it fully feasible and with the necessary diligence, to be able to implement a card with the characteristics and tariff advantages similar to the ones currently possessing the metropolitan cards for young people, ending with the discrimination they are experiencing today on the youth who reside in rural areas as compared to those of a more urban nature. In fact, in the assessment of the new regular transport services for travellers carried out in recent months by the Autonomic Administration, the installation and use of appropriate technological systems was one of the conditions required. So, with these conditions of itself favourable for its implementation, and considering that most of the population is concentrated in urban or peri-urban areas, what we're talking about today is solving the injustice that is being done with 30% of the young population in Galicia, about 83,000 of the 308,000 people that today enter within the requirements of the New People's Card. For the above reasons, it can be added that while metropolitan transport has an amount of subsidies from the Autonomical Administration reaching 10.5 million euros, which includes aid for the free of charge of young users, the general transport outside these urban areas does not count on any extraordinary content, since what the Government did with this year's budget was to carry out a real money transfer operation from the Education Council to the Infrastructure and Living Council, creating a new game, yes, but with the same money. And as since the Socialist Group we believe in the real measures and they see for the equal treatment of all the Greeks and the Greeks, and more in a sector of the population as threatened and abused in recent years as youth, we believe it is necessary to put in place some kind of measure to correct this current state of distress. That is why we urge the Galician Union to put in place the necessary actions in order to achieve, before the end of 2018, the freeness for young people who use regular public transport by road competition from the autonomous community, in conditions at least similar to those currently owned by the so-called New People's Card. A measure which will, on the other hand, help to stem the decline in rural population, which continues to suffer the punishment of isolation and of the lower investment, to reverse this situation. One day I was commenting on Mrs. Mato's intervention: Galicia has to be accompanied, framed at the same pace for all. And this is one of those cases where we find a clear arrhythmia. You have in your hand to put the remedy and favor that rural Galicia leaves behind the complex taxes and recovers the place you should always have occupied. They allow the rural Galician on the coast and the interior to stop lying in the tail wagon of this community and take the speed that enables them to head the course of the Galicians and the Greeks, especially for the younger and newer. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u100	Thank you. Good morning. I was talking to Mrs. Pierres of the Night Bus. I used the Night Bus. Some people in this country, and not few, had to travel more than 20 kilometers to get to an area where we could share and live with people of our age. It would be essential to recover that service, which, as it was already said, was a night transport service which, in addition to promoting mobility, supported mobility at night in a safe way. Especially in a country like ours, I insist, with a population dispersion that leads to a lot of youth having to travel many miles in order to get out of party. In particular, and with regard to what is being said in the non-law proposal which today defends the Socialist Party, we will support the initiative. We fully agree, we agree with what it proposes, that these free measures be extended; beyond the metropolitan areas there are more countries. Well it's true that the bulk of our population is located between cities and metropolitan areas, but there are still more countries; therefore, all the measures that are developed to guarantee that equality or social equity among all people, regardless of whether we live in rural areas or in urban spaces. We, from BNG, have formulated and tabled an amendment to extend and extend these measures of freeness to the unemployed. I believe that all the people we are here are aware that all the people who don't have work today, that many of them, in addition, have accumulated many years of unemployment, have an economic situation that is often, if not the same, worse than in the case of the people who are studying or that target audience to whom that blue card is addressed, who are persons under 19 years of age; in the context, in addition, of a country that already has in itself the lowest wages in the Spanish state. I was just reviewing today the data from both EPA and registered unemployment, and 185,000 people are currently unemployed in our country, and most of them, the bulk of the unemployed people, are located between 35 and 49 years old, which on many occasions can be precisely mothers and parents of those people who address the blue card. We believe it is essential that any measure which would be geared towards ensuring equity in access to public services should also pay special attention to all those people who are in unemployment. I insist very much on the fact that people under the age of 19 have a very complex economic situation, but in some cases, and not in a few, their parents and mothers are in the same situation as well. I already say that we will support it, and we hope that the amendment we tabled will be taken into account. We also let the importance of regaining that service to which Mrs. Pierres referred -- the Nightbus -- and also a question that we understand fundamental, which is also tangentially linked to this initiative, and it is the need to rethink from an integral perspective -- and since the BNG we have defended it here since the zero minute in which this transport plan was put in place -- the need to analyse, develop and design any transport measures from an integral perspective, which takes into account the entire territorial reality of the country, all its areas, all the diversity that exists in our population, but also the combination of the different means of transport, which actually go on the road, but also a public rail system that is truly useful to this country, as we have already defended in the previous plenary session, especially in rural areas and in the comarcas of the interior of the country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. You ask that the New People's Card be extended, which already works in the metropolitan transport of Galicia, beyond the metropolitan areas. These new people who accompany us must know, and I like to remind you, that these plans are projects and plans driven by this German government of President Feijóo. When we have to listen sometimes that nothing is done in public road transport, remember these programs, or remember many others that we have. But they know that if many of these boys and girls can use it, it's because of these initiatives in public transport. I'm glad you're now joining these programs and wanting them to expand, but look, I think we had to start by why the cities where you rule, and which have transport skills, incorporate them. For example, they don't have that transport in Pontevedra or Ferrol, where they're co-governing. Anyway, we also mean that this is working in five metropolitan areas. You speak on the initiative of the Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago and Lugo, and go! forget it's also working in the area of Vigo. What a strange thing to forget about Vigo! Look, Vigo has this metropolitan transport, but we all know why they forget, because the Vigo Council, socialist, doesn't want to be incorporated, the header isn't incorporated, and there's discrimination on what you're talking about on the initiative. Look where there's discrimination in the Vigo Town Hall. Because a boy or a girl, for example from Nigeria, can go to subsidised Vigo -- then we'll talk about this, that this is important in rural matters -- by the Nigran Council, also co-financed 80% by the Union and 20% by the interurban transport, but when Vigo arrives, the difference from the Coruña or Santiago, he has to pay for the urban transhipment because Vigo is not in the plan. That is discrimination of a Vigo boy over other cities! That's why you apply the recipe first, because it's very easy to lay down your duties and ask the others, but where they rule they don't. In any case, I'm glad that these programs are being incorporated because, obviously, boys and young people know, they're working very well, both the Metropolitan Transport Plan and the New People's Card plan. There are 43,000 cards delivered right now, of which 4,400 are from Vigo. Look at Vigo! They don't want that help. The mayor of Vigo is not helping them get even more incorporated and also having that transhipment free of charge. It's 2.6 million free trips; 2.5 million invested. Check it out if you're succeeding! We -- and there's our amendment -- we're in favour of continuing to expand these services, but we understand that the first thing is to do it in municipalities that have competences in urban transport; that's the first step. On the other hand, we understand that not only do we have to commit ourselves to the municipalities, as do those that are currently in operation, with this co-financing, but also to Members in these rural areas. Because right now, where it's working, there's a co-financing, and that's what we're asking for in our amendment. We are going to propose that we continue to increase the commitment of the Union. You gave the data, Mrs Pierres, of EUR 46 million in transport, 63% in public transport by road; 10.5 million in metropolitan transport and nearly 20 in all public transport. Of course there's a commitment! What we ask for is, where we govern, first to incorporate like the others, and then also to collaborate technically and economically so that we can extend it to other areas. We also understand -- that's why the amendment -- that not only should these cities be incorporated, but that, outside these metropolitan areas, where we agree that further growth in the service is required, we must count on other administrations, and we must do so in this second phase of the Transport Plan. Why? Because they're asking for it in 2018, where the budgets are already approved; we're halfway through 2018 with the budgets already underway. What we ask is that we incorporate it into this processing and bidding in the second phase of the Transport Plan, to incorporate it from the 2019 and subsequent budgets. We think it makes all the sense, so we present this amendment. We hope that it will be accepted or a transaction, and if it is not in advance that we will present our own initiative at the following plenary sessions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u103	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Parliamentary Group In Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u104	Thank you, President. I'm not going to run a municipal campaign. I don't have citizenship voting for that. He voted for me to talk about the issues we can talk about from here, from the Union and from the Galician Parliament. Besides, as this time he couldn't attack the governments of Coruña and Compostela, I won't go into it either. This initiative brought by the Socialist Party seems completely relevant to us, as it mentions three of the greatest problems facing Galicia at the moment: the negligent management of public transport, the marginalization of rural areas and the few aids that young people experience in order to carry out their lives as autonomously as possible. With regard to the mismanagement of public transport, we can hardly add that we haven't said it already. The People's Party continues without offering an integral planning of mobility; it continues without establishing a fluid dialogue with local administrations; and continues to act without the slightest technical solvency. It's still not doing the transport policy that Galicia needs. The proof of this is that this Monday would have to have presented the transport plan, but it did not present it or seems to have the least intention of presenting it. On the contrary, everything points out that it will continue on the same path as it has so far, imposing concessions of transport without consensus with anyone and showing a truly worrying disability. The People's Party bets on an authoritarian policy of consummated facts because it has no vision of public service or country, and is unable to reach agreements with the actors involved. There is no need to remember the negotiations that Mrs. Ethel Vázquez has held on her day with the trade unions and transport businessmen to find out: she has not managed to convince either one or the other. Galicia needs a transport policy other than that offered by the People's Party's Union Government. He needs a policy that guarantees the effective right to sustainable mobility of all Greeks and Greeks, regardless of where they live. It needs a policy that attracts public transport and contributes to the socio-economic development of our country. It needs a policy that will allow you to vertebrate the territory, connecting the metropolitan areas and the rural villages. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, rural people also exist. So you need a change of course that is planned with everyone's participation. For this reason, and as we have done in the past, we encourage the Government of Galicia to set up a table for the public transport dialogue in which trade unions, companies in the sector, Fegamp, deputies, school offices and ANPAs are present, as are representatives of civil society. The PSOE initiative also emphasises that the transport policies of the People's Party continue to leave rural. Since the end of 2016, youth can travel free of charge in the metropolitan transport of Galicia in the cities of Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol and Lugo, however, nothing like this happens in the rest of the territory, which is a clear comparative aggravating for rural people. How does the Galician Union expect to set up population in rural areas when it does not grant the same rights and services as the urban population? It is these kinds of actions that lead to the depopulation of much of Galicia, which, as we know, has a terrible effect on the territory and the economy of Galicia. Investing in rural services is not an expense, it's an investment that allows us to keep our territory alive and healthy. That's why it's so important to have a transport plan that allows you to articulate routes and meet people's needs. In particular, public transport must meet the demands of the youth, who for many years was expelled from Galicia because he could not find a way to settle on our land. For that reason, we are in favour of this Socialist Party proposal. We're working on an initiative that goes a little bit more about what it has to do with the age of young people and also with help for the use of public transport, which have to be enjoyed also by students up to 29 years old, even with discounts with exit and arrival within Galicia itself, since it's a collective that has also been forced to travel frequently and that doesn't always count on the economic means to do it. In short -- and already to finish -- we support the Socialist Party's initiative, which points out the outstanding shortcomings in the People's Party's transport policy and puts on the table a proposal that, although we think it can be a little bit more ambitious and go a little further in old age, we think it's totally necessary and it goes in the right direction. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u105	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u106	Yes, briefly. Thank you, President. You today, Mr. Fernández, came here to exercise selective memory. Don't worry, because this happens to many of your partymates. And it seems to forget that in cities like Ourense, where you rule, you haven't even managed to establish the metropolitan area. It's been five years and neither with municipal support nor with the support of the MP. So they don't teach lessons that you yourselves are unable to fulfill. On the other hand, I think the truth is that with regard to investment policy in the Infrastructure and Living Council, we find no reason for precisely either euphoria or self-comprehensiveness. In fact, if we compare the 2010 budgets that you yourself managed, we see how program 512A, which refers to transport management and inspection, that year was 62 million and a half, and today the program is at 41.75 million, minus 20 million. And if you want to find the reason for school transportation, don't be mistaken, because in that year the amount that was destined for that purpose was just over 127 million, above and above the 105 million that were budgeted this year. And we understand: that you invest this year about 42 million less than in 2010 would not be worrying if the Transport Plan had achieved greater efficiency and satisfaction on the part of users and users, but you know -- and we also -- that this is precisely not the view of most Greeks and Greeks, and so they made it clear at the beginning of the school course last September, where they rained -- literally -- claims and claims from all corners of the Greek map. To be specific, with regard to amendments. As for the People's Party, we would accept its first amendment as an addendum -- not as a whole, as you will understand -- since it would have to be summed up in the clear commitment, not to study extension, but to commit to making the extension of the freedom of interurban public transport, in this case to rural transport. We believe it's important that they show the clear and non-fusible disposition to solve this aggravation with 83,000 affected yellow and yellow Thursdays. And with regard to the second amendment, we also believe that it could be summarized in the request for institutional involvement to cooperate in the implementation of this measure, but -- that is yes -- by refraining from introducing on this initiative the debate on metropolitan transport again, because we believe that the end of this initiative was mainly to resolve the aggravation of young people and girls in rural areas. And with regard to the amendment of the BNG, we have to move that, despite feeling it fully appropriate and appropriate, we believe that it could greatly distort the reason for the measure we are presenting today, which was mainly the support and healing of the aggravating of the young and young people in rural areas. We therefore hope that this initiative will be presented again and, of course, we will support it very much. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Parliament of Galicia, before the end of the first session of 2018, of a report on the implementation, during the course 2016-2017, of the I Plan of Action for Equality in the Educational Centres of Galicia, as well as the necessary changes for the achievement of its objectives
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u108	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The initiative, the non-legislative proposal that our parliamentary group brings today is a result of the uncertainty that results from the implementation of the I Plan of Equal Action in Galicia's 2016-2020 educational centres. This plan, which, as we all know, was jointly drawn up by the General Secretariat of Equality and the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, stems from the finding that there is an increasing trend in recent years, in which there is an increase in discriminatory conduct and sexist stereotypes among students of educational institutions. Obviously, this is not a reality alien to society. This Parliament has been very much debating the need to deepen equality between men and women, more, perhaps more intensively, since last month, with unequal intensity in the application by different groups. In any case, we see that it is something that concerns us all, because it is an important problem of society. As a result, the Council, together with the General Secretariat for Equality, has drawn up this plan for educational centres, which is a four-principles-based plan and which has six fundamental axes that make it fully available in various areas of educational institutions. The point is that this parliamentary group -- and I think I can speak for the rest of the parliamentary opposition -- has at no time questioned the quality, and much less the opportunity, of this plan; that is, it's not a theoretical debate about the content of the plan. We value, from our group, the quality of it, but the fact is that this plan and its temporal implementation, from 2016 to 2020, makes the first course of application, which was the last 2016-2017 course, which ended eight months ago, gives sufficient time margin to assess, initially, at least, what is the level of development of this plan. On the 5th of this month this Member asked a question to the Education Commission, which answered the Director-General for Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation. And the truth is that your answer personally produced me more uncertainty than certainty, more concern than tranquility, since it turned out more clearly that the Education Council is not assessing in an extensive or intensive way the implementation of this plan. And I was most surprised that if I made a statement that the plan was being developed not normally but successfully when, of course, one cannot objectively know whether that plan is working correctly because I think that little has been evaluated the third part of the twenty-seven measures with its corresponding indicators that they have. We wouldn't be so worried if the results were bad, because that would give us a pattern of what needs to be corrected in the evaluation of that plan, because for that we have the implementation assessment, to see what steps must be taken to correct it. We are concerned that, within this understanding in which the People's Party seems to be installed globally in all areas of politics and public life in this autonomous community, that greed -- I repeat -- is extending to something as relevant as this Equality Plan in educational centres. There are indicators that are so cheap, so economical, to assess what it really looks like, and we can't believe they haven't been evaluated unless the result is so worrying that it makes it necessary to hide its results. By mentioning only four of them, indicator 23, to develop an educational programme with a gender perspective that favours the participation of students in socio-Community intervention, has as an indicator the number of centres that have done some type of activity of this type or the number of pupils and students who participated. It's very complicated to evaluate that. The 25th, to promote a choice of the academic and professional future free of gender stereotypes, in particular by putting into value the scientific and technological vocation in female students, has such a complicated indicator to evaluate how the number of centers and the number of students involved. And so I could go on with a few more. But there is another indicator, which is to promote the provision of educational activities in the field of gender equality and violence, as well as affective and sexual diversity, which has an indicator that is the number of actions carried out within other generals. And that if I can assure all of you that it will be evaluated, because the Council has introduced as mandatory any training project of the professor of this autonomous community -- as mandatory, I repeat, irrespective of its content, which has a module of coexistence, inclusion and equality. I mean -- to understand us -- a group of teachers and teachers in this autonomous community decide to do a working group in their center to investigate the flora and fauna around the center and they're necessarily going to have a module like that. Why? Because it's going to improve in an impressive way that indicator, all teachers will participate. Clearly, there is a clear intention. What do we want? We want this Parliament to have information on the outcome of the evaluation of this I equality plan. As this information has not been provided to us in the Education Commission, we find it a sad obligation to come to this Parliament to ask that we be approved a non-law proposal so that the Government present, before the end of this session, a report on the implementation and evaluation it has made of the implementation of this I Equality Plan during the 2016-2017 course. We believe that it is fair, that it is reasonable that we know this information, that it is democratically healthy, that it is from the point of view of the necessary equality, and that it has already passed enough time to know whether the Council already has this report completely done. Because, look, we all know that the course is over, for the purpose of getting this information, in June 2017. From the end of June to this moment it's ten months, more than enough time for any program to bet seriously, with commitment and rigorously have a minimal evaluation. As we suspect that this minimum assessment does not exist, we want this Parliament to know about this information. And that is why we are asking for the approval of this non-law proposal to the other parliamentary groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u110	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u111	Thank you, President. Good day again. Then I'll do a nuance, Mr. Álvarez, but so, in order to start more or less in an orderly manner, you -- you're right -- they ask for something revolutionary, something transgressor, something that breaks all the schemes, which is a report -- a report can knock down the walls of this Parliament itself -- a report that should be a fundamental part, and in addition to that, it also contemplates the plan itself in its public policy evaluation section, which is going on a continuous follow-up from the moment when any action, any measure, any action to be taken to monitor the effects that these cause and to be able to determine whether to introduce some kind of corrective measure or some adjustment or continue to sink or reinforce some aspects of the actions that develop because it is the way forward. In that sense, from that perspective, we are going to support this initiative from the BNG, because it seems to us that it should also be a fundamental part of the implementation of that plan, a plan of what has already been talked about -- it's true -- and much, also in Commission 4a. I believe that all political forces have asked about the degree of implementation of the actions envisaged in the plan itself. We, from BNG, have also said on many occasions that it is a good plan. On paper, it's well-designed. Another thing is to put it into practice, another thing is to implement it. And there's a paragraph within the plan itself -- it can be downloaded, because it's hangable on the network -- which is, for example, budgeting. There's a question that needs to be clear. Just as public policies have to be evaluated, any kind of action, in the field of education, and much more about the promotion of equality, needs a budget, a budget and a temporary planning of the actions themselves. And -- you can see it -- it doesn't appear inside the plan -- it's worth the redundancy -- of the budget forecast. It would be nice to know from that report that this initiative calls for what economic efforts are being made and where money is being invested. But there's also another fundamental part, and it's just that we can't just draw up a plan, send it back to teaching centers and think that by infusing science this will become real and effective. There's an important part of the training that people who are responsible for educating new generations, people who are responsible for forming these new generations. In this sense, since the BNG, we have already formulated this proposal which came out by unanimous agreement of this House to train the one who educates through this professional master's degree, which was also discussed this morning, in order to contain a specific subject of equality, prevention and comprehensive treatment of male violence. And another fundamental thing to be able to carry out the actions envisaged in that plan is to have time and resources for the teacher himself. And now it would be a good time to start talking about also recovering those lost rights from the staff paintings, which are, after all, those who will be ordered to carry out to good measure all the actions that are planned in this plan. And I told him, Mr. Álvarez, that he was going to make a nuance, because even in the flora and fauna working groups, we can work on aspects of equity, social justice and equality. Not only for example, in the case of flora and fauna, speaking about the role women played throughout the history of research in the scientific field, but also by working on management techniques, in group work, tolerance, respect, dialogue, coordination. All those values that have a great deal to do with equity, social justice and equality must permeate all areas of work and our day would go. Much beyond that, which was the big bet that the People's Party had when he launched this plan, didn't he? introduce a matter of free configuration in compulsory high school that is -- so we know the questions we've been asking -- implemented at a minimum, a small percentage of the total number of education centers in our country and that, after all, it remains a little to the good will of those who are willing to want to pursue this matter -- I say -- of free configuration. We support -- it's obvious -- this initiative, which asks for something -- I insist -- as gross as a report, but what we ask for is also media, resources and training of teaching teams, which are ultimately those who have to develop these measures. And we also ask for a question: equality cannot be conceived as a stable compartment. There's no point in throwing a series of messages through the training materials to our youth, for example -- I'm thinking about the younger age ranges -- if they then turn on television or they view any kind of video or audio-visual content on social networks or on the Internet that throws completely contradictory messages. We have to work in parallel with education -- and I'm done -- with another part of secondary socialization, which is the media, which is becoming more and more important in the configuration of identities. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u113	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, to say that we are going to support this non-legislative proposal that brings us today by the Socialist Group, and we are going to support it because, although we would like to be able to discuss a more ambitious GNP, we will adapt our wishes to the reality of Parliament and we will lower our expectations. We will support it because it affects a matter that we consider fundamental, that we have often dealt with in this House and that we will certainly continue to deal with, like equality in the classroom. We won't get tired of saying it: the school can and must be the engine of change, the school can and must bring us closer to that future in equality that we need. And, in that sense, the letter from the I Plan of Action for Equality in the Educational Centres of Galicia... [[Murmurs.]] President, please, there's a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u114	Yeah, sometimes a little. A little bit is heard, yes, the truth is, you hear a little noise from here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you want me to do? She has the right to express that discomfort. I can't call all the Members... If you want to talk, there are places to do it outside. Please, then, she makes a complaint and I have to deal with it. Then proceed, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u115	Thank you, President. No, no, a school of course it's not. There's a lot more in schools than there is in parliament, there's no doubt about it. Maybe Mr. Puy goes little to schools, there's a lot more respect than you hear in this House every day. Let's get back to the question that hits us. We said that, of course, with regard to the letter from the Action Plan for Equality in Educational Institutions, it is impossible to disagree. It would be very difficult to come in and discuss the background of the written there. A document in which you bet on things such as co-education and in which -- I quote it textually -- is collected: "Co-education is an educational style, a process of social transformation that points to a coexistence between the sexes away from mutual oppression and tending to a relationship of justice and respect in the interest of an integral formation and an effective equality of opportunities between men and women." It seems that this could have been written by anyone, even if I could have signed it in Marea. Because of course, the letter is like that, the letter is free. The lyrics sound good, but not so much music. Or even more, music doesn't sound at all, because it can't be said that they're committed to education while continuing to fund macho centers that separate the student. Because talking about plans like this, filling pages with equality, it's okay. To write plans that are not intended to be fulfilled, that do not have a single euro budgeted, directly, is propaganda, bad, very poor. And if there's no money committed to implementing policies, then what happens is that they're left on wet paper. It is simple: resources, resources and resources are needed. To make equality policies, they need resources. A plan of action for equality in schools requires more than good intentions, concrete resources, because without them the usual: that we stay in mere sun supply. And the kindness of the People's Group in this regard was evident. A few months ago, In Marea brought to this House a non-law proposal in which I specifically asked that the Equal Action Plan in the educational centres include a budgetary memory with specific games to develop it. The answer of the People's Party was that of all time: no; not for the no. Of course, no resources, at least we need information. We think that if there are no resources, the results will be clearly negative. That is why, as I said, we will support this proposal, which insists on the need to evaluate, in order to have data, not opinions, not to go up here saying that everything works perfectly, true data, the degree of compliance, the degree of non-compliance, the success or failure of the policies that are being implemented. And that's why we consider it so interesting to make an assessment during this plan's own process, not when it's over, because this would allow us to improve in the meantime. I mean, we're talking about the need -- that it should not be just this plan, but in all the really ambitious policies that a government has developed -- to do mid-process evaluations; assessments that in the very run-up period of the plan allow better implementation, to analyze efficiency, so that you can reprogram what doesn't work. In fact, it would be even more interesting if the evaluation of these types of plans had been continued and presented periodically, as is being done, for example, with the Equal Plan of Andalusia's educational centres. You're never looking at what they're doing in other territories and what works, and it turns out that in the case of Andalusia the evaluation is done annually; this allows you to go reorientating the Equality Plan. Funny thing: when you read the chapter that the Galician Equality Plan devoted to evaluation, there's very little information. Yes, tell us what the indicators are, but they don't tell us when or who's going to do this evaluation, and above all, they don't tell who. Would it not be appropriate to have a follow-up commission of the plan itself, interdisciplinary, that had had at least equal education specialists who had been working throughout the process? From Marea we thought it would be an intelligent way to work. And that's why we're hoping to count on this report as soon as possible. Information, of course. We ask for that: true and quality information, not only for Parliament, but for all citizenship, to analyze to its fair extent the results of policies that are being implemented. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u117	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Well, the truth is, listening to you, I sometimes don't come out of my surprise. You, Mrs. Chao, just said -- and I think it's something they all agreed upon and where we can all agree -- in a little ironic way, which, as far as the letter, the letter of the plan, the literal content of the plan, sounds good to you, which you think is good, that you might even have signed in Marea. But you see, the circumstance is that who signed this plan and who was aware that a plan of this feature was needed to be drawn up was a government of the People's Party. With which many of the arguments that you constantly insist on repeating to the citizenry try to transfer the image that perhaps the People's Party has no sensitivity or awareness of these issues; something which, of course, as I say, is perfectly disassembled in the light of the facts. But look, picking up a little bit of that ironic tone that you used in many of your interventions saying yes, that the content of the plan is fine, that we can all agree on that content of the plan, I'm going to remember a little what was said in the last Commission 4th of April, when a question was asked about this subject. We would also discuss another plan. There was an appearance about a plan that was the Plan for the dynamization of Galician in youth, and then we were told or criticized to the People's Group that we understood the consensus and the good functioning of a plan like doing what you ask -- they said textually --. You understand the consensus or you understand that a plan works or doesn't work depending on if you do what you ask. For the truth is that this reasoning can be shifted to what the opposition groups are proposing today, which the Socialist Group is putting forward, and to which the other opposition groups have announced a favourable vote. You know what they want -- they don't care about the plan, they don't care how you walk the plan -- it's just that the government does what you ask. And that, of course, is something that the Government has to decide and knows perfectly what it has to do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, the government creates a plan of these characteristics because it understands that it is necessary to work to improve the situation of equality in classes and around school, and this government works with clear and well-defined objectives in the plan. Because you said: we're not going to discuss the theoretical content of the plan. No, of course, what we want to do is open a sort of methodological discussion about the evaluation or the degree of implementation of the plan. I think it's quite appealing to me, because, in addition, I think we're all aware that evaluation is the last step in the life cycle of a public policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u118	Well, let's see, I think this is a question... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In this sense, no one can criticize me for preserving that the honourable Member has been from the rostrum of speakers with the utmost tranquility exposing himself. It is the question of all groups, of all Members. But it's true that here you hear a lot and you bother those who are in the use of the word. And I've been there too, and I know you're upset. So, let's all work together, it's a matter of putting good will on it. All of you, all of you, all of you, up to the top, all of you. But, please, let's all work together. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it. I think I launched my proposal. We all work together. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Shut up, Mrs. Santos! You start by collaborating. Shut up, everyone! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! That's it. You understand the message. Silence! We're all going to work together and I'll look for it that way. You'll have as long as you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u119	Thank you very much, President. As I said, we're finally losing ourselves in a purely methodological discussion about the evaluation of a plan, and you know -- and you said that yourself in Commission 4th itself -- that obviously we couldn't make a complete evaluation of the plan, because the plan is thought of a time horizon, to achieve targets on a time horizon, but they still ask for a report on the degree of evaluation, or on the evaluation or degree of implementation of the plan. But look, you betrayed the subconscious. During your last intervention -- and I invite you to go over or we can go over the video when the video comes out of your intervention -- tell us that you're not making an evaluation of the plan, but literally said that you have rarely evaluated the third part of the indicators. If you know that the third part of the indicators have been evaluated, how can you say that an evaluation is not being carried out? It's just that the data itself, the reality itself contrasts with what you want to move from this rostrum. They ask for information from the commissions. They're being transferred information. The Director General will come and tell you or give you information on the degree of evaluation and implementation of the plan. They're not worth the answer. Bring this PNL. That's why I'm telling you: one question is that you don't do an evaluation of the plan or that you're not conducting an evaluation according to your own plan, which is false -- you yourself have just said that there's already been a third evaluation or that the indicators are covered by a third part of what marks the own evaluation plan for this equality plan -- and so they move, they intend to move that false image, but then, when the CEO comes to convey the reality of the degree of implementation of the plan, they're not worth the answer. They're permanently installed in that logic of: we're going to tell the Government what it has to do or we're going to ask the Government what it's doing, it's not worth the answer, we're going to tell the government what it has to do. Look, whoever has the competition, has to implement, carry out the plan, its evaluation and therefore evaluate the degree of implementation of it in the Welsh educational community, is the Government, which is what drafted this plan. We are fully aware that the plan is being implemented, as the CEO in Commission 4a said, in its fullness. We are aware that the plan will bring the results pursued in the objectives that marked the plan itself. Because, in the end, the German Government always works with a logic of evaluation, which is to mark goals and evaluate the achievement of them or not the achievement of them. That's the logic of public policy evaluation that marks the Government of Galicia. In that sense, at the moment when the time horizon is exhausted for the achievement of the objectives that marked the plan, we can say whether or not these targets have been conquered and we will, of course, make a rigorous assessment of the plan, which is what marks the plan itself in its literal corpus. So we, as you will understand, what we're not going to do is move it to society, first, how you want to do the idea that nothing is being done in the evaluation and implementation of the Equality Plan, and move it to society too -- of course, we're not going to do it, and you're trying, over and over again, to do it -- that the Greek Government does not work for equality. What we're going to do is defend the Government's continued work and then, of course, when the results are on the table, tell them that, once again, they were wrong. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u120	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u121	Thank you, President. I am very glad that a non-legislative proposal on the evaluation of the Equality Plan has raised such intense debate on the forms and aspects of the interlocutor, which you are talking about in this Parliament. Maybe we should do a monograph of provocations and counterprovocations to see what level each of us supports and from there put us in different places. Mrs. Rodil, I appreciate your group's support. I know we're raising revolutionaries today and asking for reports. Where we're going to stop! Where we're going to stop! If we're going to stop in a country where records can be made again, how will we not be able to make long enough reports? But what a sad country, that can be more a ointment than a fake title! What a sad state, what a sad state! [[Applause]] Of the non-existent budget, to which you referred, we have spoken. Obviously, it's not a matter of budgeting. We can't debate something that doesn't exist, beyond a metaphysical discussion, which would delight my comrade Losada Álvarez, who often refers to this kind of argument. When I was talking about the mandatory inclusion of a module on coexistence, inclusion and equality, I didn't do it with the interest of underestimating -- or much less -- that kind of content, but that reality, which you rightly referred to, always existed. The fact that it is now included as mandatory is a statistical interest, simply to increase the number of teachers who participated in this type of activity. Thank you, Mrs Chao, for your support for this intervention. I was hearing and being a victim of this acoustic harassment, what happens is that I have an advantage over you, and they say lots of years of class and I'm able to work with a quite high noise threshold the same. But it is true that there exists, as Mr President rightly said, that permanent trouble. Mr. Fernández Gil, go paper! But, well, you have to recognize that you are creative, and that surely in the political sciences and others will study the model of evaluation of the Greek Government in which politics is evaluated exclusively at the end; that is, implementation evaluation we eliminated it -- that's what you said --. I invite you to check your intervention. Look, I understand you have to come here to make that kind of argument to vote against such a trivial thing as that this Parliament's public opinion has information on the implementation of a program that you think should only be evaluated at the end. I'll finish, Mr. President. I just wanted to say one thing. We didn't ask for any methodological change. We don't ask them to do as we say. We only ask them to evaluate what is written in the plan itself, simply. What a barbarity a parliamentary group asks the Government to evaluate in accordance with its own plan a public policy! Where we're going to stop! What's next, what's next?: To distribute ointment boots? I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u122	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Proposal for a non-law of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Board to increase the content of the Special Fund, beneficiaries and non-contributory pensions, and to request from the Central Government the increase of non-contributory pensions to the count equivalent to the minimum interprofessional wage
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u123	There is an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on Tide and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u124	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u125	Good morning. The non-legislative proposal that brings here today the debate of the Nationalist Block Galego has as recipients one of the weakest and most vulnerable groups: the group of people who do not have enough resources to survive and have to receive a non-contributory pension. The public pension system complements non-contributory pensions, those that receive those people who are in need, even those who have never paid or, having contributed, having worked, having worked their entire life, have not done or do not meet the conditions for a contribution pension. These non-contributory pensions are granted and managed by the autonomous communities, therefore, the Galician Union, but are financed by the Imserso, the Institute of Majors and Social Services, through State budgets. They were established in the 1990s, with the aim of expanding social security coverage to ensure adequate social assistance and benefits to all citizens in need; at least that was the objective that accompanied their implementation. It has two types of beneficiaries: persons over 65 years of age and persons over 18 years of age with 65 % of disability whose income is below the benefits of these non-contributory pensions; pensions of EUR 5,635 per year or retirement of EUR 5,030 per year. It is clear that the objective of ensuring the existence and sufficient social benefits that have since been marked does not correspond to the amounts allocated, since we are talking about the accounts of these pensions that are really demanding, because these non-contributory pensions are EUR 669.9 per month for this year 2018. Therefore, it must be borne in mind that the persons receiving these pensions are in a situation of need. And, in addition, I want to highlight a question, and it's because of the structure of the labour market, and especially in Galicia, where there's a woman's incorporation into the labour market, that makes most of the women's income earners be women. Two-thirds of the people receiving non-contributory pensions are women, with which this pay gap is sharpened, gender inequalities are tightened, not only during work life, but also when they receive pensions, whether they are contributors or what we're talking about, non-contributory. They are women, for various reasons, for different labour trajectories, for the late incorporation into the labour market in the case of women, for the overwhelming presence in middle-day women's contracts, in situations of fixed discontinuance. In Galicia we have tremendously feminized sectors where the figure of the dissuasive fixings abounds. We can talk about the cannery case, unfortunately very small already in Galicia, but that up to a few years ago he had several thousand women, with contracts for hours. Another cause is an intermittent work path, for periods dedicated to family care. For not having contributed, for having done domestic work and care for the family that does not cash, for having done free work, for doing work that is done and not charged -- women are specialists in this type of work, in the responsibility of care greater, to children, to children, to patients; care is still being considered women's affairs -- or directly to have carried out labour exploitation, to have worked without being discharged. I'm going to refer to two specific cases, two real cases, two cases of two women of flesh and bone. One is Marina, 67 years old; she worked for seasons in a hotel, at Christmas they didn't give her up anymore, on Holy Week neither -- we're talking about very short seasons -- in summer they gave her up for two months, with which she had to work six years to have paid a year and be entitled to a few months of unemployment; all her life working and taking care of the house, the children, the in-laws, the parents, 60 years now, quoted real nine years, with which, she has to receive a non-contributory pension. His contribution was not a priority because his salary was an aid to the house, like that of so many other women; with which: non-contributory pension, EUR 366.9 per month. We have the case of Luisa, 66 years old, a conservation and cleaning worker -- feminized and therefore precarious sectors --. The whole life working, like Marina, sets-offs of the conserva, a company that practiced the assessment. Translated, what does that mean? That the company wasn't paying for all the workers, but for a percentage, and in that percentage, Louisa didn't touch it being the ones that were given up. With which, during the whole period in which the prorateo was practiced, Luisa did not contribute. Then it was met with multiple errors of calculation, for these multiple times given up and down because it was fixed desisting, and with periods after subsidies, in which, as all of you will know, it does not matter. It complements your working life with cleaning jobs for hours, which, as you too will know, are badly paid and worse quoted. Real quote time: seven years. With which, Luisa also thickens, after a lifetime of work, the list of people in Galicia who have to accommodate a non-contributory pension. With this what I mean is that, far from that belief of many people who think that non-contributory pensions are for those men and women who have never done anything, who have been in their home waiting to reach 65 years of age to then claim a non-contributory pension, nothing beyond reality, they are in a very important part people who have worked for their entire life, but the system has excluded them or has them subject to this kind of work situation, which excludes them from being able to have a decent pension, a contributing pension. That's why we bring this initiative here today. With the aim of improving the content of these non-contributory pensions, the BNG-PSOE coalition government, aware of the inadequacy of these accounts, approved in 2008 a supplement in Galicia of these pensions, with a single payment of EUR 200. With the turn of the People's Party to the Government of Unity, he wanted to eliminate it because at that time the Wellness Counsellor, Beatriz Mato, considered it to be a patch, a tyrant, insufficient; he even said that there were doubts that it was legal... it seemed to him that it was an inappropriate matter. They've given up getting rid of them, because the truth is it's been quite scandalous about it. They've kept them, but, yes, frozen since 2010. Eight years has been frozen a complement that, by itself, is that quite small, we are talking about 200 euros. They updated it in 2010 and didn't update it again. EUR 206 in a single payment, which corresponds to EUR 17 per month. The BNG this year 2018 presented an amendment for this supplement to be raised with EUR 1,000 per year in the budgets of the Board. We considered it to be a fairy tale of the least that could be done. We're talking about really low perceptions for people who are in a very low-income situation. The People's Party did not consider the amendment of the BNG. And today we are presenting this initiative, which has two parts: on the one hand, to demand from the Galician Union a game intended for an increase of 100 euros a month for this complement in Galicia. One hundred euros a month to meet these basic needs we consider it not an Asian luxury, and we make this proposal because we understand that it is a necessity. We also do so because in Galicia they stopped paying 1,258 disability pensions in 2017...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u127	... -- finished, president -- and 1,606 retirement pensions, and there's a ferro-control mark on these pensions. Instead of really controlling tax fraud, it's taking control of these people who are there, far below the poverty line. And a second part is the initiative to demand from the Spanish Government to make an effort to increase these pensions to the minimum inter-professional wage. Mr. Tellado cried yesterday and asked to take initiatives that could be implemented immediately, and not wait within two years. This initiative can be implemented immediately; it is approved today and can be implemented immediately. With which, I look forward to voting in favour of the groups of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u129	Thank you very much, President. Thirty-five days and two barrels of cream later, at last Mrs. Cifuentes renounced something she had, which was the presidency of the autonomous community. Let us hope that this full and necessary meeting is now being convened that our comrades and comrades in the Madrid Community are waiting for and that today, which is April 25, which is a marked date, there is also a revolution of dignity in the institutions of this autonomous community, which is so necessary. [[Applause]] Let's talk about non-contributory pensions. It's been done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u131	Relaxing creams are very good to calm the tension. [[Laughter]] Non-contributory pensions have already been said here that they have a woman's face; those that receive them are 3 out of every 4 and so that there are no nostalgias of frankism, as it happened yesterday, I want to point out, first of all, that it was a socialist government by President Felipe González who put them into action. [[Murmurs.]] I'm saying this because later comes the nostalgias of the franchise of the sixties, with data that are not true. [[Applause]] Well, these are non-contributory pensions that are managed by the Galician Board and funded by the Imserso. Official data of the Ministry of Health, follow-up report from 2011 to 2017, coverage index between the presented and the resolved: the lowest in all Spain. They are lengthening the deadlines and increasing the waiting lists: average resolution in Galicia, 135 days, 68 days above the state average, and, by setting an example of an autonomous community, in Castela-A Mancha average is three times less, 48 days. The fact is that the People's Party has always been caught by these supplements to non-contributory pensions. The first autonomous community to put them into action was Andalusia. He tried to do so by decree of the year 1998, Mr. Aznar -- then in the Government of Spain -- and he resorted to the Constitutional the following year, something that they failed, since he was rejected in 2002. Not happy about that, they kept insisting. They made a 2003 amendment to the General Social Security Act to prevent autonomous communities from supplementing these pensions. And we, the socialists, had to arrive in 2005 to the Government to re-amend that law. Today these complements exist, in addition, in Extremadura, in Catalonia and in Galicia. They exist in Galicia because of this reform of Mr Zapatero of 2005 and because there was a two-party government, along with the BNG, chaired by Mr. Touriño, who put them into action in Galicia. That's why they exist. Then 10 million euros were destined, and the hemerotheca the truth is that it always brings the bad people's party past, because then Mr. Feijóo in the opposition said, "It doesn't even get enough to compensate for the rise of bread and milk." Nine years later we invest 1.8 million euros less. The truth is that you kept these plugins because you had no choice but to swallow them. Mrs. Mato herself, as already mentioned here, the precaditude of the People's Party in the Coruña, was tempted to eliminate them. That's right, cutbacks are, because if 2016 were to invest 9.5 million euros, now, since 2017, 8.2. Before the People's Party Member points out the amendments that never accept social policy, I would like to remind her that we have tabled an amendment on this which has been rejected. We are going to support this initiative, Mrs Prado Cores, but we have introduced an amendment, so that this increase in non-contributory pensions -- that we do believe that it has to reach the minimum interprofessional wage -- if it is done gradually, because in addition to putting an end to these poor pensions that are receiving -- I repeat, for the most part, women -- what we are concerned about is also the system's own sustainability. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u133	Indeed, the reality of the Greek pensions, of all, contributing or not, is a reality of misery; it is the reality of Luisa, Marina and so many other women, because unfortunately precariousness has a woman's name. And with the latest data, seeing the average pension data in the Spanish state, we see that the Welsh pension continues to be 15.4% below the state average. We still have the second lowest pensions in the state -- the contributions -- and Lugo and Ourense, as always, marking precarious records. In this way, we are the autonomous community with more percentages of pensions below the minimum inter-professional wage, 56%, and in the case of women, reaches 81%. Therefore, to talk about pensions is to talk about poverty; to talk about raising pensions, including pensions, is to talk about acting against poverty. The proponent has already said so in his initiative, the causes of this situation are the conjunction of low wages, precarious work, the heavy weight of the agricultural contribution regime or the aging of the Greek society. This situation comes to both contributing pensions and the reality of non-contributory pensions, because, as she also explained herself, it is also behind work precariousness and are also behind discriminatory days for women, as it can be that kind of part- and vertical workday, which affects women above all and that In Marea at Congress asked them not to be discriminated against in the calculation of unemployment. But let's go to non-contributory pensions. He's already been exposed here. Both disability and retirement are absolutely meager; it's an absolutely insufficient pension to live, and the supplements that may not be enough, do not come to solve this situation. So it's absolutely urgent, as far as the powers of the Galician Council are concerned, to raise in what way the content of the income these people receive, by a matter of ethics and dignity, which means not to allow anyone to have an insufficient benefit to live. We repeat it many times because it is very relevant: one third of our country's households have as their main income a pension; with which, more than in other countries, to act, as we say, raising the content of what pensioners enter is to act directly against poverty, and the fact that women pensioners are the most precarious -- also in the case of non-contributory pensions, as it has already been exposed, two thirds of the people who perceive them are women -- also involves acting against the intolerable feminization of poverty in our country. Thus, the precariousness of pensions determines, as I say, the precariousness of a third of the homes in Greece, the internal demand, because it must be taken into account that the spending of pensioners means one quarter of the household consumption, and, in addition to further polarizing society, inhibits the creation of employment; with which, we follow on that infernal wheel of precariousness. The extraordinary fund of beneficiaries of non-contributory benefits and pensions, as has already been said, has been reducing their already demanding budget, as the Social Policy Adviser transferred to us, because there are fewer lenders, but, of course, it never happened to try to raise that fund. And increasing pensions is a necessity, as we saw in the general debate on pensions. Increasing pensions is a necessity, and it's also a need to increase the income of people who receive these low non-contributory benefits; it's a moral obligation, as we say. An increase like the one proposed, 1,000 euros a year per person loaning is still at the macro level, at the level of budgets of the Union, a crumb. What's going on at the micro level? That an increase of 83 euros a month for a person who has so little income means the difference between being properly nourished or not. That's happening in our country. Yesterday we were discussing the need to consume Greek products, but we forgot a variable of the debate. We, with the wages of Members and Members, can do it, but there are many people who cannot afford to buy quality products and must go cheap and also to lack quality. There are a lot of people who, by the way, can never afford, no month, to buy a cream, which I don't know how much it costs Mrs. Cifuentes to put in her purse. [[Murmurs.]] So, from En Marea -- that's reality -- there are people who can't afford to buy any kind of question that goes beyond the basic -- we're presenting an amendment of adding that has to do with the need to know fully the reality of poverty in our country. Junta has a study conducted in 2014 on poverty in Galicia that does not publish entirely; it does not update the studies. We asked him, and he seemed willing to accept it last year, and he didn't publish it. And for us -- because the crisis has increased the inequality in Galicia -- it's fundamental that we know the exact reality, as precisely as possible, the social reality, the social landscape of our country, in order to complement the income of those people who need it, not only those who receive non-contributory pensions, but all those people who are under 60% of the average wage. And knowing that this isn't even going to solve the problem, we decided to add this amendment because it's essential to know social reality, to do a social study. Of course, we will also support the initiative, even if it is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u134	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Before we give the floor to the representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, we greet the students of the Rosalía de Castro, Carril, in Vilagarcia de Arousa. Welcome to Parliament. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to greet the children of my Town Hall, Vilagarcia, Carril. On this issue, we are already used to the frivolity of some Members, because, when we are talking about non-contributory pensions and people who have less resources, they always resort to this frivolity. I'd like you to answer me -- when possible, it could be after this debate -- if you, to claim that dignity, have to go to Madrid. Because we believe that you can also claim dignity in this House in connection with a companion of yours who has used the status of a Member. You haven't said publicly what you thought about what happened yet. Therefore, you can save your journey, and instead of going to Madrid, you can publicly say that it seems to you this matter of your companion. [[Applause]] Or also, if it's so revolutionary of dignity, tell us what happens with ERE in Andalusia, because it seems that we can only talk about issues that have absolutely nothing to do with what is being debated. It seems to be, but, of course... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] There are phrases that, unfortunately, are now like, "you don't know who I am", or even, "treat her well, which is from our own", which, of course, we believe, are not received in a Member or in a Member of this Parliamentary House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain you receive a non-contributory pension of 450,000 people. Of course, 50,000 are Welsh and Welsh. And the amount of non-contributory pensions is based on personal income or income from the unit of cohabitation, from at least 25% to full, and even to disability, with a supplement of 50 %, which can reach up to 7,767 euros. The Government announced -- because you know it, because you read the media, and it was discussed in this House during the whole plenary session -- that non-contributory pensions will rise by 3% in the state's general budgets for 2018. So we think that if you're really worried about non-contributory pensions, they support State budgets to raise non-contributory pensions to 40,000 people living in Galicia and receiving this non-contributory pension. [[Applause]] Because, look, to support State budgets is to support those 40,000 people living in Galicia who receive the non-contributory pension. And to support state budgets is to support that half a million Greeks who are going to raise their pensions. In addition, those 40,000 Greeks who charge a non-contributory state pension receive a supplement of 206 euros from Galicia. In order to cope with the payment of this supplement to the Galician Union, it has EUR 8.2 million. And, in addition, Galicia pays all the beneficiaries of a non-contributory pension; it pays on its own, without the need to submit any applications, so we ensure that we reach all the beneficiaries. And why do I clear this up? Because not all communities that pay the supplement to non-contributory pensions do so in this way. Only four communities, in addition to Galicia, pay this annual supplement; and four others do not pay the supplement to all the beneficiaries of a non-contributory pension, they only pay those people who meet certain requirements. By the way, there is a community that has established the payment of the supplement of the non-contributory pension and is not paying it, which is the Community of Castile-A Mancha. Of course, we did calculations on your proposal. What they want is to increase the complement of non-contributory pensions by EUR 100 per month. If we calculated, your proposal would increase the budget to pay that supplement by 48 million euros. And we ask ourselves, since you know the budgets of the Social Policy Council, what game do you want to reduce? Do you want to downgrade the Risga game? Do you want to minimize the dependency split? Do you want to downgrade the home help service, day centers, residences...? Because you have tabled amendments to increase all of these games. And now they are presenting an initiative to increase the addition of non-contributory pensions by EUR 48 million. To increase non-contributory pensions to the content equivalent to the minimum interprofessional wage, as you propose, is to increase by €2,300 million in this share. We therefore believe that it is better for you to support the general budget of the state to raise pensions to half a million Greeks, to present an initiative that is totally virtual and a toast to the sun. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u137	First of all, I'm going to stand up for the amendments. We are going to accept the amendment of En Marea because it seems good to us that we have a report to have real data and see what the situation is. And we're not going to accept the Socialist Party's amendment for one reason: again we think we're talking about really minimal pensions, you know, people who are in real vulnerability. These are pensions that go from state budgets, and in state budgets there are more than superfluous splits, starting with military spending splits, which in this budget increase by 7% and which we think are perfectly transferable to pensions of people who are actually going through it. So we don't think that really puts any sustainability at risk. We don't seem to have to set any calendars, which can be done now and which should be done now. So, now going to the People's Party, look, this initiative doesn't involve the state, Mrs. Rodríguez, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it does concern you. It calls on the Government of Greece and calls on the Members and Members of the People's Party, who have the absolute majority in this Parliament. Yes, it's for autonomic supplement, so it's done now, so you can increase that count by 100 euros a month. [[Applause]] You suppose you don't know what some people can do with 100 euros a month, they don't know what it's like to be in that situation; of course, they don't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, this initiative calls on you, if you have a little decency to dedicate 100 euros a month to people who charge 369 euros a month. That depends on you. Mr. Tellado cried out yesterday saying, "Don't bring here initiatives that are for within two years; real things, to do right now, right away." This initiative is to do immediately, you guys! [[Applause]] Don't in-tell me! [[Applause]] Not immediately! [[Applause]] They have the opportunity to tell Luisa and Marina that they've worked their entire lives and that they have to fix with 369 euros: 100 euros more a month. That's what BNG's initiative calls for. That, by the way, if it were up to you, they wouldn't be with this autonomic supplement, no. The Greeks and the Greeks have this supplement because the BNG put it on... you didn't have the courage to take it off because you're a fool, because we were already starting the crisis and it was very scandalous to take it off. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If not, you wouldn't have that courage, you wouldn't have that courage. [[Applause]] You guys who don't dare... we're talking about pensions not a resource problem, they're a redistribution problem. You're still acting and legislating so those who still have more and have no courage to approve an initiative that the only thing you ask is that those who have almost nothing have a bit. Because this initiative only says that those who have almost nothing have a little bit more: 100 euros a month. You know what we're talking about! And the People's Party doesn't have the decency to vote in favour of an initiative that means 100 euros a month for those who have almost nothing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. **** Proposal for a non-law of G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council in order to request the Central Government to amend the basis of the summons of autonomous bodies to the National Health System to ensure the inclusion of non-discrimination clauses by the exercise of labour rights on grounds of maternity and the review of firm and non-firm administrative procedures where it could have given rise to a situation of discrimination
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u139	It's so long and I had to read it like this. No amendments were tabled. Mr. Villares has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u140	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Sometimes the titles are so long because the reality explained is long too. It can be reduced to a holder, that is, to the holder of the effective exercise of equality. And today, which we commemorated on 25 April, the Revolution of Cravos, the Portuguese Revolution, the revolution of fraternity, where its anthem prayed that in every face we should see equality and where the people were the most ordered, we believe that it is a very good date to address, precisely, the theme that we bring today, the principle of equality; the principle of equality that our own legal order collects, the principle of formal equality of all and everyone before the law, in article 14 of the Constitution, when it is said that all people are equal before the law, without any discrimination on the basis of birth, race, sex, opinion or any other personal or social considerations. Something that, in the light of the notorious dissatisfaction that produces the fact that it is not the reality that we have today, has a material equality trait in Article 9.2 of the Constitution, and that Article 4.2 of the Galician Autonomy Statute also collects that it is up to the Galician public authorities to promote the conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which they are integrated to be real and effective. It also corresponds to Galician public authorities to remove the traps that hinder or hinder their fullness. In addition, it is also the responsibility of the Galician public authorities to facilitate the participation of all Galicians and Greeks in political, economic, cultural and social life. Well, we've also been talking about this as a result of a democratic claim expressed not only in the legal order but also in the street as well, and we still recall the mobilization of March 8th. We have come here today to bring a proposal that seeks to end with unjustified discrimination and, therefore, also unfair and arbitrary, where women are penalized by the mere fact of being sealed and by exercising their rights related to their own status as a woman and the full exercise of their rights, in this case related to maternity. The context is still known because it has had great preaching and has great preaching in the media because of the flagrantness of its violation. And the context is immediately a situation that occurs in relation to the Carlos III Health Institute, an agency dependent on the Ministry of Science and Innovation, which incorporated full-time researchers and researchers into the National Health Institute through a strategic health action program that took place from 2012 to the present and which sought not only to train the best and best professionals but also to bring and attract the talent of the foreigner to work in the national health system and also in the autonomic health system. With what goals? It is perfectly explained: the generation of scientific bases necessary to sustain policies and make decisions in the national health system, based on strategies with proven scientific, effective and efficient evidence of health promotion, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and rehabilitation. How is this strategic health action performed? For by means of a system of grants, of economic transfer, for the various departments and research institutes and with respect to those who exercise it, by means of a system of scholarships called Miguel Servet I and Miguel Servet II, which since 2013 have a correlation character, so that one cannot access the second without having previously passed by the first and also by the principles that inspire one and the other. From this system currently participates the Sergas, the Galego Health Service, which in 2017 requested the obtaining of the contracts Miguel Servet II convened for the purpose. The configuration of the Miguel Servet I and II scholarships was carried out in such a way that in the second program there are a number of periods of interruption of the research period initially contemplated in the program and which were obvious, however, in the second program; periods of interruption of the research period between them -- and therefore they are not, because they have not been incorporated -- certain interruptions of the research periods by the exercise of labour rights associated with the exercise of maternity. The consequence of this is that researchers who get this job in the wake of these programs cannot be pregnant or form families, neither accompanied nor alone. There's a personal, family, accompanying effort that is so high that the compatibility of research cannot be allowed at the highest level based on academic and research experience and on the desires to be a mother, in a stage of demographic decline in Galicia where there is so much need to increase birth rates and the policies of the Union to favour it. We are talking about a context of high competitiveness in which researchers must render full-time and in an absolutely intensive way. In the search for this excellence, it happens that it is relegated, just as research scholarships are configured, to a background the option of forming or having a family and incorporating new members to it through childbirth or adoption, as there is no way to reconcile excellence continues with the care that children require. With these bags, then, there is no reconciliation option in research scholarships; that is to say, it is a fundamental career where one competes without a period of rest as a result of the exercise of labour rights. What does this really happen today? For in practice, a low per motherhood computes as an empty amount of research time or curriculum, because time is still running, even though the mother is down by maternity, in such a way that it's going to be computed as zero research time, that is to say, as if she wasn't producing. In this way, the woman who makes use of a right legally recognized in the Staff Regulations and more in the Basic Statute of Public Employment is penalized in her professional career, because the period of investigative evaluation, which are five-year periods, is the same for male aspirants or women who have not lowered anything on the ground of maternity, when the reasonable one would -- and this is the proposal for a solution -- that the period of evaluation was about the actual active time, with a rate proportional to the working time or similar formula that does not penalize the woman who exercised her motherhood responsibly with the labour rights recognized. In 2018 we saw the violation of women's rights in a particular field, penalized by being mothers, in particular in the process of evaluation of Miguel Servet II scholarships, where the lack of scientific production was not taken into account. There is a case of an aspirant who is well known, that of Maria de la Fuente Freire, during her maternity leave, but which is extended to all the women who are in the same situation. We are talking in cases like this, about the best scientists our country has, not only in the Italian field or in the state field, but also in the European sphere of prestige. We're talking here about women researchers in nanooncology and who perform a fundamental function to improve our overall as a citizen of our health. All of this, this impossibility of taking into account her maternity leave, gave rise to situations like the case of Maria de la Fuente, in practice, that made it possible to have 20 % less time than the rest of the competitors to the scholarships for this reason, which evidently had a negative and relevant impact on the final score obtained in the period evaluated. This is important. It was relevant that 20 % of the time that was not used or that was computed as zero research. On March 8, just fifteen days before this initiative was presented, it took place not only in Galicia, but in the whole state and at the international level, a historic mobilization where women and men go out on the street to cry out for women's equality, to cry out among other things for the rupture of a glass roof that is still taking place today, where standards that are formally valid and benefit equally women and men give rise to discrimination. Let us not say situations like this, where gross discrimination is established between those who exercise maternity rights and those who do not exercise them. Political parties of any sign at this time said to take note of this mobilization in the streets, which was a unanimous democratic claim. Now, taking note doesn't mean acting, as we could see only two months ago of this mobilization. We said this because the Carlos III Institute of Health itself said to take note of the situation of discrimination concerning this researcher and the rest of the researchers who were within their breasts. However, the reality is that, when the following resolutions emerged, even after the registration of this initiative, when they were notified of 12 March 2018, the same criteria and clauses as those that existed so far were maintained, in such a way that women continued to be punished simply by being mothers and exercising their labour rights. Then, we need to ask ourselves, after the mobilizations, after we say to note, after the public scene cases of flagrant and direct discrimination like this, whether we are really taking note of what should be equality or we are really not interested in doing so, neither for the future in those resolutions, nor in the present case that we bring here as an example, because there was no recognition in that ongoing competitive process that such discrimination had occurred in legal terms, in such a way that the resort that the investigator himself presented in relation to this situation was rejected by understanding, in summary -- said the third legal basis of the resolution -- that no rights derived from the principle of equality and non-discrimination were violated. It's the resolution to read. We see in this case as the Administration itself, which mediatedly recognized that the conditions for the future to prevent this discrimination were to be changed, the same as in the administrative way denying the rights and, in addition, in subsequent resolutions continues to maintain the situation of discrimination. And that's why -- and I'm going to finish by now -- so the EMEA Parliamentary Group submits to the consideration of the House three points, which are fully complementary. The first is to urge the autonomous bodies of the National Health System to carry out, both in public tenders and in procurement bases and research scholarships, the sufficient amendment to introduce non-discrimination clauses by the exercise of labour rights derived from the condition or exercise of the reason for maternity, in the same way that is already taking place today in the European scientific area, by the way, also derived from the European directives themselves. Secondly -- the second of three -- that the Administration itself, recognizing this situation of discrimination, will automatically begin to review the firm procedures that led to discriminatory situations. This is something that the Administration can do on its own, it finds itself regulated in the Law of Administrative Procedure, and it means, in practice, that, recognizing that there is a violation of a fundamental right such as the right to equality, a review process of its own will be initiated to prevent the situation of injustice and violation of fundamental rights from continuing to be perpetuated in the administrative resolution of the Administration itself. -- I'm done now --. The third situation we are asking for at the third point is that the administration itself should be aware of those non-significant administrative situations, or that are being tried at the moment, which recognises the situation of discrimination and, therefore, recognises the claims, whether on the administrative track or on the legal track, and therefore puts an end to discrimination which in 2018 should never have occurred.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u142	And it is not the case of Mary of the Source, it is the case of all women, it is the case of all men who want to live in a situation of equality in full democracy in the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. We now greet the students of the 1st and 2nd ESO of the Centro San Mamede, of Maceda, in Ourense. Welcome to Parliament. We have orensans among us today. That's always a good thing. Man, of course! [[Murmurs.]] That's very interesting, of course. I now give the floor to the representative of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u144	Well, I'm not going to be less than Mr. Santalices: greet also my almost neighbours and neighbours of Maceda. Focusing on the issue of today's initiative In Marea, go ahead with the support of the Galego Nationalist Block, but, as a matter before, I would like to move a question on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block and also on behalf of my particular woman, if at any time Maria de la Fuente sees this attendance or is listening to us right now. I want to move you, first of all, thank you, thank you for having the courage to go out publicly, to remove heaven and earth to denounce a discrimination to which she is making her face, but that we are convinced that it will contribute to the fact that many more women in science, research and in many other areas take steps forward. [[Applause]] And because I'm convinced, even though she's a successful woman, a researcher, a professional person, recognized, empowered, despite all this, that she had doubts, I'm convinced that she felt permanently this look that we all women feel when we denounce discrimination, as if we were asking the moon or doing us some kind of favor, so I'm convinced that, still belonging to an area that a priori all and we can all think that it's much easier to denounce discrimination, at all times it was easy to make that decision. Today this discrimination because of being a mother -- as I say -- is a lot more cases, because it has to be put forward that the question we are discussing today is not an exception, but there are many more cases. Otherwise, we wouldn't have the data we have about the glass ceiling and gender crack. Specifically, in relation to the teaching career as a researcher, numerous studies have been carried out that point to the existence, causes and profound scope of this discrimination. This is what we have called, what they have called "thessasory effect" experts and experts, according to what progressively progresses in the research career from access to university, to higher education, to places of relevance as the case of Maria de la Fuente, it will gradually reduce the presence of women. In this sense, and also an issue that has focused important studies not only on the German level, but also on the international level, as a reference in this area as is the ETAN Report, which also introduces proposals that the Government of Galicia or the Government of Galicia might apply if they were really interested in doing so, in really favouring women to access the scientific sphere on an equal footing with men. But we have also recently seen debates in this House as there is not too much interest. To show a button: this programme of the German Women and Science, condemned to absolute ostracism and paralysis by the People's Party, solely by political sectarianism and lack of functions. From the BNG we insist, once again -- and this example that comes to the House today gives good notice of this -- that we have to take steps forward and pass from that legal framework that is collected in theory, in the legal order, which Mr Villares also referred to, and evaluate to what extent it is being fulfilled, to what extent it has holes and to what extent from public administrations there is a sufficient effort being made to correct this, because it is obvious that today this framework is not fully efficient and that discrimination persists in all areas of social, cultural, labour, economic and specifically in the field of research. I will not stop at the concretion of the case, which Mr. Villares has already reported in depth, but if he would like to make some reflection, the very root of that detail to him. We can see in the evolution of this case as even the complaint mechanisms themselves were insufficient, the correction mechanisms themselves were insufficient, and even the will of these organisms was also shown to be insufficient and accessory, and only at the time of taking this a media pulse if they began to move the frames. That should make us reflect also as a society. I also wanted to add another question to the reflection, not only from the point of view of the rights of this woman in particular or any other in her situation, but also that reflection that we sometimes forget that this kind of inequality has negative consequences for all of us, that we have a worse world with a society that is more unequal, because, in vetoing the equal participation of this woman, we are vetoing access to a strong research position of a researcher with much potential. And in that we lost all the people that at one time we could benefit from the results of that research, in this particular case, of something as sensitive as oncology. And finally, one last thought. We're talking about a case -- it was at the beginning of my intervention -- an area that could be elite, in its literal sense -- I understand well --. We're talking about an investigation, we're talking about bodies linked to public authorities, about a space in which it should be easier if these types of discrimination were not present, and yet we see that with these scholarships in an area of excellence we have this situation. So let's ask ourselves, for a moment, if this is so in these areas where, theoretically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u146	...equality is a norm, the more you will be to evaluate, to deepen and to search in all other fields, also in your own teaching, also in your own universities, but also in many more opaque universities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u148	...and with many less glances placed on them as well as the work, the social and so on. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u150	Thank you, President. The truth is that this initiative brought here today by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea fully coincides with the feeling of the Socialist Party, and it does so precisely because it shows one of the consequences that many women assume of being mothers, a decision that always seems to lead to a resignation: that of being able to choose to have a professional career, like many men or like those women who do not opt for maternity. But we firmly believe that the choice, in any case, cannot be a prize, nor can it be a penalty or an obstacle to achieving the same shares of responsibility, excellence, economic level, ultimately equal opportunities in the labour market. But also today, from our group, we want to highlight a nuance that we consider important to contribute. The initiative speaks of women and their difficulties in achieving equal treatment, but this problem, in a society that is totally and ideally equal, would have to speak of men as well as women, would have to take account of the paternity of men, with this untransferable enjoyment and at the same time as women, ultimately making use of the desired and coveted co-responsibility. So, yes, then the only discrimination to correct in cases like those that have been exposed here today would be those who decide to be parents and mothers and those who decide not to enjoy that condition. In any case, today's reality is that this problem mainly affects women. And the case of Mary of the Source is what has symbolized and evidenced this discrimination. By the way, this woman's attitude that we, too from the Socialist Group, want to highlight for her personal courage and determination to denounce this situation that not only affects her. [[Applause]] And I reiterate that I began by saying that this initiative coincides with the feeling of this parliamentary group, and so on, because in this House -- and not only in this legislature -- we socialists today have presented many initiatives that seek to take those steps to correct many of these situations of discrimination and lack of opportunity, to give real compliance to the Law of effective equality between women and men. To contribute, for example, to a real presence of women in business boards, both in public and in private, of more than 250 workers or workers -- president, it's difficult to talk to this background runrun, it's quite frankly complicated -- that they can opt with fewer impediments to positions of leadership and ultimately have the representativeness that is so necessary for that balance that is so much demanded between women and men and that equality that is intended to be real and full. But we have also introduced initiatives as recent as those in which we call for the recovery of the Women's and Science Unit, which would have to support all cross-cutting equality policies and which this government has left behind. Also introduce the gender perspective into R+D+i public policies. Involve the Union and the universities of Greece to jointly carry out a detailed analysis of the methods of evaluation of all public contracts and aids for research and innovation to detect those that may prejudice the development of women's scientific careers, as well as order the development of equality plans in all technological centres and public institutions related to research, innovation and technological development that do not have them; equality plans that we have also called for for for all dependent bodies of the Galician Union and that is the first body to be violating the Equality Law. And yet, motherhood is always that common element that acts as a main element for the social and labour advancement of women and in this case where the direction of institutional relations of the Carlos III Institute of Health has recognized this discrimination that has been affected researchers as the case of the aspiring to the Servet II Maria de la Fuente bag. We reiterate our position of full support for the initiative presented, and we believe that not only will the future discriminatory clauses be corrected but we believe that the real commitment to equality is precisely to demand that discrimination generated in the previous processes be addressed, even more so when the Equal Treatment of Women and Men Act exists precisely to ensure that in any case it is respected, not precisely to simply find that it is wrong but not to repair the damage. Avoiding future errors is positive, but responding to events is equally -- if not more -- important. In any case, we insist that equality policies are understood as necessary, in any case, for the entire research career as a process of consolidation or excellence. And to finish, reflect on this government about the importance of supporting maternity but also paternity, which today there are men -- few, but there are -- who want to enjoy and get involved in the care of newborns and the only option they have are unpaid surpluses in their jobs, something that contradicts the social demand that is soon done when they are really not being facilitated by the exercise of their co-responsibility. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. I'm sorry, but in this case it was my fault, because I was trying to communicate an incidence. I know you could possibly upset her in the speech. I apologize. The representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I have to welcome them, welcome them to support motherhood. I still remember in 2010, in a debate in this House, in the adoption of the Maternity Support Act, which counted only with the positive vote of the People's Parliamentary Group, with the vote against the groups that were part of the House at that time, the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block. I still remember how I was criticized for a sentence Mr. Villares said today. I expected the ranks of the Block and the PSOE to recriminate him because he related the protection of maternity to the increase in birth and the needs of the demographic problem that Galicia suffers. Mr. Villares, I recommend you read that Journal of Sessions to see the things your benchmates told me about saying a sentence like the one you came here today to this gallery. But, of course, if you say it on the left, it's okay; if you say it on the People's Party, it's not worth it. [[Applause]] Welcome to maternity protection. I've heard things like what I'm going to read to you, which said the Galician Nationalist Block at the time, a Member who is not now, but who is the most veteran of the House. He said protecting the rights of pregnant women was to reproduce the stereotypes of maternity as a problem for women, as defenseless beings who need protection, and they considered protection as a step back in the struggle of feminism; they even claimed -- Mrs. Pontón -- that for cases where a pregnant woman is fired the solution is that she has to be readmitted. I'd miss more, but what's the problem, gentlemen? The problem is that, indeed, we have a law that upholds equality, we have a law that is more advanced in Europe, in which legal equality is fully contemplated, from our Constitution to all the legislation that develops it. What's the matter? The problem is the application of that legislation, the ridicule of that legislation, when there are legal gaps in that issue, and when there are entrepreneurs/entrepreneurs, people who mock that legislation not to break the glass ceiling, to violate women's rights, as in the case we just met. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, we are having this debate today, because legislation on equality unfortunately is not met and because today we are talking about a woman who has been discriminated against for being a mother, but unfortunately there are many others who have also been and are being. And, therefore, the People's Group in full has brought the debate to a non-law proposition, too, to defend those women who are being violated their rights. We also listen to and receive Mary of the Freire Source, we listen to her case, and we also commit ourselves to putting in place the mechanisms that are necessary so that women do not lose competitiveness or work opportunities for exercising their right to be mothers. And we, therefore, are going to support this initiative, because, even if today the basis for the summons already raises this issue, Article 50, Mr. Villares, of the Resolution of December 28, 2017 -- the appeal of Mary de la Fuente had not yet been registered and was not yet March 8, -- these bases were already collected in her Article 50, not only not only that the deadlines for maternity will be calculated, but also, Mrs. Pierres, of paternity, and also, ladies, the interruptions for care to persons in dependency situations. Therefore, indeed, progress is being made, but we believe that not only in Miguel Servet should these clauses be included; we believe that these clauses should be included in all calls, all of them, not only in scientists; all public calls should be incorporated in measures that correct that situation. And the terms not only of motherhood and paternity, the fundamental dependence, Mrs. Pierres, because there are many people who are taking care not only of their older ones, but of children who have diseases, rare diseases, large diseases, and that also has to be computed, you also have to interrupt those deadlines, because that's also a service that many women are doing to society. So we're going to support it. And also, Mr. Villares, we believe in the separation of powers, and in the two points, in point 2 and point 3, you are urging the administrations to do what the law already allows them. You've already told them. Parliament doesn't have to tell an administration what it has to do in an administrative process, but, as an exceptional matter and as a measure of positive discrimination -- we're going to say so -- because of the analogy with positive discrimination, we're going to support point 2 and point 3, too, but not because we think it's the usual one, because -- I insist -- we believe in the separation of powers. But unfortunately, since we have not yet the full guarantee that maternity is not a cause of discrimination for women in many areas, in education and in work, above all, and since we do not yet live in a country free of discrimination, women will not have the full freedom to say whether they want to be mothers or not or at what time, because it depends not only on their will, but on issues other than the will they are affecting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u154	Yes, Mr. President. There's a lot of progress going on. You said March 8th. Before 8 March, the Ministry of Employment was already negotiating with social agents twenty-four measures to prevent the wage gap, twenty-four measures to commit entrepreneurs to more obligations, more obligations with equal plans, audits, fines, increasing inspection, measures to avoid discrimination by maternity and paternity, pay equality, to know what jobs are of equal value etc. In this respect, you know that I always say that we have to reach consensus. Mr. Villares, there is nothing to justify that you in the past would not let us vote for four points of your initiative, because you have just said here specifically that real, effective equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u156	...it's not a reality; because you favor this group too, so that where we agree and where we agree we reach agreements, because only then will we succeed in moving forward and walking on the path of real equality. And today, with our vote in favour, we will continue on our journey towards real equality, not only legal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Villares Naveira, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, thank all political groups for their support for the initiative, which was not intended to be a En Marea initiative, but an initiative of the House as a whole. Something that goes far beyond a biased claim to be a claim of totality, as a claim of totality, as a unanimous social claim of the effectiveness of the right of equality. So, thank you, first of all, for that, and secondly, of course, for the recognition that the other groups have made, for the concrete courage that in this case an investigator took when he took a step forward to denounce a situation where, of course, he had a lot to earn but also a lot to lose, because it is never easy to take steps forward denouncing awkward situations of uncertain end. In any case, go ahead, too, that recognition. I think today we're all taking an important step here as well as breaking the glass ceilings we've been talking about so many times. We tear down glass ceilings when, on the apparent neutrality of standards, we see really what are the obstacles to real equality between women and men, and that's why, being theoretically the same standards for all and for all, then it's the women who, as they advance in the pyramid, both in the private sector and in the public sector, we find more men and fewer women. I believe that in the area of deciding what kind of society we want today, we also find a meeting to see that we want a more equal society among all of us. I share the tone made by Mrs. Pierres about the need for this speech to be fully extended to the exercise of responsible paternity and not only to the exercise of responsible maternity, a commitment, therefore, to equality, which is already present with all and with all, not only in relation to women. With regard to the speech of the popular honourable Member, the speech by En Marea on demographic implosion is well known, and therefore the speech that demographic implosion is only reversible by harboring hope for the future which also enables co-responsibility and allows the full and free exercise of both paternity and motherhood. So they're always going to meet us there, both for this situation and for agreements to reverse demographic implosion. As for the specific reference to article 50 of the bases, we wanted to point out the fact that there was a differentiation between the Miguel Servet 1 and 2. Being the discrimination that occurred primarily in the field of Miguel Servet 2, we want to draw attention to this and to its differentiation from the first. In any case, whether it is one thing or another, I believe that the term of office coming out of this House allows in the present and for the future to solve this situation. As for the issue of separation of powers, I think one of the functions that we perform as parliamentary groups is to urge the Government to do things. That if the Government is urged to do things, whether it is Greek or Spanish, it is part of the role of this House in non-legislative proposals, it is therefore not to interfere with powers, but to establish political positions that also allow us to give actions that seem consistent with the values that we defend here. I sincerely welcome the fact that we have found that meeting point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u159	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u160	... I'm going to finish -- and if as a matter of exceptionality supports points 2 and 3, for that consideration, which I am also doing at this point, and I'm sure, and we're sure from En Marea, that this example of Mrs De la Fuente's case, as in the case of researchers, as in the case of public areas, as in the case of private centres, will be a point and followed in a struggle for equality in which we all want to meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. We move on to the next initiative, but before reading, as we have been half an hour behind schedule and we plan to vote on all the initiatives before eating, I would ask all Members and Members to take the floor at the appropriate time, because if we do not, we will end up voting at 4:00 p.m. Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and eight other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government to the central government of the establishment, in coordination with the autonomous communities and the municipalities, of the universal social card
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u162	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, the Galician Socialists Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u163	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we bring to this Parliament an initiative for the Government of the State to put in place as soon as possible the universal social card, so that citizens can benefit from its advantages. This is the first time we have spoken in this Parliament about the universal social card, so we want to explain what it consists of and what it will serve exactly this social card. And to explain what that universal social card consists of, I think it's appropriate to talk or set an example of what the health card is like. With the health card we believe our access to the public health system. We can see on the mobile our medical history, ask for and manage our medical appointments, tell us about our medication. Today, both health card and electronic clinical history are a reality totally based in Galicia. Well, with the social card, what's going to happen is that you can believe access to the public social services system. It will collect information on social benefits at different levels of action: general government, autonomous communities, municipalities; simplify administrative procedures and improve response times. We're talking about that users won't have to provide reports or certificates again and again because everything will be inside this tool. In addition, it will increase coordination between different public administrations and will improve the protection system for citizens, who can telematically consult their data. How did the social card come up? At the conference of autonomous presidents held in January 2017, the momentum of this universal social card and the establishment of a working group responsible for designing and implementing it was agreed. The working group, in which representatives participated not only from the General Administration of the State, but also from the Autonomous Communities and the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, recently announced that the card will be universal and determined that it will serve as an accreditation mechanism, simplifying administrative procedures. Logically, this whole social card procedure was carried out in coordination with autonomous communities and municipalities, as it could not be otherwise, because without them this tool could not be implemented. Not only did they participate in the working group, but on January 30 this year, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces unanimously approved support for this universal social card; on February 13, the presidents of all Spanish deputies met in the Pontevedra Parliamentary, where they analyzed their participation in the development of the universal social card; and two meetings were also held with the social partners, within the framework of the Social Dialogue Bureau, on a plan of shock for employment, long-term unemployed and social card. This same initiative was already discussed in the Committee on Employment and Social Security of the Congress of Deputies at its meeting on 15 March, and was adopted by a majority, in particular by 27 votes in favour and 10 against, after accepting the group that is responsible for the initiative -- the People's Group -- an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, which today also presents the same amendment and we will also accept it. But we believe it was appropriate to bring this debate today to the Galician Parliament and to analyze the importance of the universal social card in our community because its work and its implementation are very advanced and, of course, we believe that Galicia will affect it. On the other hand, there is a very important example in Galicia, which is the only electronic social story. In June 2016, Junta launched the single electronic social history to speed up the processing of benefits; a tool that allows professionals of the Greek Social Services System, regardless of whether they belong to the municipal or autonomous domain, the unique access to the social file of users in electronic format. This system prevents duplication and improves response times. It is currently being implemented in more than 220 municipalities in Galicia, with the expectation of reaching 100 percent by the end of this year. The Galician Law of Social Services, in its article 16, establishes the basic social file. It says that there will be only one basic social dossier in the field of Community social services, where all the interventions and services provided to the user at the different levels of action of the Greek Social Services System will be collected. It also speaks of the regulatory arrangements for the collection and processing of information of users of the system, ensuring, in any event, the confidentiality of personal data. Well, the initiative we are bringing about today is that this procedure started in Galicia and also in some other community extends to the rest of the autonomous communities and forms a coordination circle of the social services system between the General Government of the State, the Autonomous Communities, the Provincial Deputies and the Town Councils. Of course, we consider that this will be positive for all people, and especially for people who use the social services system. We're hoping to count on your support. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. You have the floor, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u166	Thank you very much, President. You know, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, that I don't usually refuse the debates, so I use it so that, whenever you want, set date, time and place even to talk about corruption. In fact, it's true that it's not necessary to leave this autonomous community, it's not even necessary to leave the house. I don't know if Pablo Crespo calls him. I think he was an organization secretary of his party when you joined. It's more, today, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, television -- and it's not advertising and propaganda -- and see what his party was doing with drug traffickers while many mothers in this country buried their children for drugs. [[Applause]] So, lessons of dignity and frivolity, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, or the first part of him. We are going to talk, you said here, that you have agreed at the Conference of Self-Governmental Presidents; it has been approved unanimously at the Femp; you have taken an initiative from your own group, on March 15th, at the Congress of Deputies, with the same decisive part that you bring; and of course, the first question is, why are we going to support, or why are you bringing the same initiative that your colleagues approved a month ago? Because the machinery of the advertising and propaganda agency of the People's Party is running all over the machine. Why are they talking about this and not talking about other matters? Because I don't think there are any issues to talk about in social policy in this autonomous community!... And more recently, that we have a social policy advisor who is more focused on calling him soon as a Ferrol precinct than in exercising his functions on this subject, with a disappointment and a lack of political initiative that has tremendous concern for the PSdeG. If you have no ideas, I recommend you consult the Valador report. Of the total of 228 complaints that were made last year -- those of its own initiative -- 92 percent of the actions are related to the social services of this autonomous community, with which I believe that there are a few initiatives that are not redundant to bring to this House. With regard to the social card, it is true that we, even if we support this question, are a little concerned because, as we get to know the documents being prepared, it seems that the only thing we want is to detect duplication, or fraud, or abuse of the beneficiaries. It's a recurrent thing in the most reactionary sectors of this country, and a way of mining and waving and even rejecting social policies. We are in favour of transparency, effectiveness, coordination and, of course, complementarity of actions, and you mentioned that there are some communities -- some -- that are already doing so. As they're so told about Andalusia, I imagine you've forgotten that Andalusia has established -- through its reform of the Social Services Act -- these technical instruments in 2016. Our perspective -- we want to make it very clear today -- is neither criminal nor stigmatizing, as long as it is applied within the spheres of each of the competences of the different administrations, which is something that you too tend to skip a bit, and therefore we also include it in our amendment. We agree, how are we not going to be?, that there is a complementarity between social public services, community services and specialists, and at the same time also a coordination that is failing -- and we have denounced it on numerous occasions -- with health services. But, I repeat -- and I don't want to be redundant but it's necessary -- we'll never agree to create an instrument that overlaps, incriminates or sows doubts in the honorability of the people who have less. That's what the girl who gave the replica told her. Yes, yes, the initiative is the same, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Arias speaks words that are not perceived.]] Since the initiative is the same, logically, today we're going to tell them the same thing that we told them at the Congress of Deputies. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Arias speaks words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you're connected to the Internet to see it in the video, to see it through the network, but I repeat it because it's the same and it's redundant. No, yes, I have it here too, because Mr. Feijóo says that we look at the CEO hard, but the Congress Bulletin of Members is still able to read it. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Arias speaks words that are not perceived.]] He said we're not going to argue that if we create an instrument that overlaps, incriminates or seeds those doubts, and therefore we present an amendment that I understand that as you are just saying right now -- it's the same one that appears reflected in the Congress of Deputies' Journal of Sessions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u168	...you're going to support. What I would ask you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, is that you get to work and don't waste your time. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u170	This same initiative -- which has already been commented on here -- was presented, discussed and approved in the Committee on Employment and Social Security on 15 March and was already discussed in the Committee on Social Services. It's a measure that the Government of the State claims to be in place, so we're faced with one of those initiatives that we call reinforcement, but we're not going to circumvent the debate, of course. The social card is presented -- music sounds very well -- like an information system that will enable you to know real-time the economic content benefits that all administrations manage and that ensures greater transparency in social programs. We say that music sounds good, but in the debate about this type of card, it is essential for us to note -- as the Socialist Party's voicer has already done -- the need to scrupulously guarantee the universality of social benefits. It's something, by the way, before the card is created or not. Ensure that the card is indeed universal and that the possession of the card prevents access to social care. We're not talking about burns because we're talking about that in this state health is no longer universal, so we emphasize this issue, and therefore the card is not panacea. The first thing to guarantee is a social state. We are in the context that the social state is demolishing it in different ways, so it causes us many doubts about this social card. Besides, in the debate that is taking place, there are no clear fundamental aspects, especially -- as the spokesman for the Socialist Party said -- in some documents that have transcended and in some debates that have been given. On the one hand, it seems you're looking for more administrative simplification or avoiding duplication -- you yourself referred to that, avoiding duplication -- that really the universal provision of social services. Thus, there is a mindset of suspicion about people who perceive social benefits. That is why it seems to us that this is not a receipt, because in addition, since the fraud that can be committed by people who have economic benefits does not reach 0.26%, it is a minor matter, and we find it intolerable that this suspicion is unleashed in the debates. The card also received criticism last year from the Association of directors and managers of social services for this very reason. They considered it an insult that the argument had alluded to the creation of this system from the point of view of combating fraud, when the main fraud is that of large companies; and a fraud, of course, millionaires, is not a simple cremation. The issue of the collision with the powers of the autonomous communities, which we have exclusively in social policy, and in a context of State recentralisation, is also unclear. Another sensitive issue is the transfer of personal data, not only between the Administration, but also private entities. Therefore, the first is to guarantee the social state. The amendment we tabled goes in the sense of not starting the house on the roof. It is true that there are not incompatible debates on the social card at the state level and the development of the own law of Galicia, but it seems more appropriate to begin, from the Greek Parliament itself, by developing the German Law on Social Services and by agitating that a model of social services is being deployed in the way of health care, as you yourself have pointed out, so that each person, living where he lives in our country, has a technical staff and a reference center in social services that facilitates social intervention and also eliminates bureaucracy. They're not incompatible -- I say -- and we realize that the amendment we've made is not incompatible, but it seems to us that we have to start with cements; we have to start by developing a system of really universal social services in our country; we have to start by eliminating the causes of poverty that give rise to that unequal society and that social benefits are more and more necessary; and then we have to debate this social card, which, I say, generates a lot of doubts in the aspects that I have commented on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u172	My advice is that I don't have it for myself, Madam. I refer again to the Journal of Sessions where the People's Party has accused the groups of this House of bringing here initiatives that are already in progress or are already approved in the Congress of Deputies, and it turns out that it brings an initiative that the People's Party has already led to the Congress of Deputies, an initiative that the Government of the State, the Government of the People's Party, is already in progress. Well, all right, botafume initiative. I'm referring again to you, Mr. Tellado, who used to say yesterday, "How do you bring this initiative here that is already underway?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, look, only one day it took them to do the same thing they told the others they didn't. Of course, they're going to have to make him look, because lately they're missing reflections. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez, too, to give her a little back and not so much notice, said, "Let's bring this initiative here to analyze the impact it will have on our community." No, the initiative says, "to urge the government to put in place" -- it's not to analyze the impact -- "the initiative says to urge the government of the state to initiate the analysis of...". So you're not trying to get him back on track. Going to the point, of course, you're learning. This initiative, first, is not new, has been tried again, has been tried by other ministers, with other questions, with another exposition of motives, with others like that, but it's not new. They're changing terminology, but, of course, it's not the first time they've tried to solve this question. I'll explain that, of course, they won't count on our support. First, because it's a new interference in Galicia's skills. Galicia has the competences in social matters, you have the Government of Greece, and, of course, this proposal that you are putting in place implies a new delivery of competences, a new step in the centralization strategy in which the People's Party is immersed and in which the People's Party, the Galician Union, collaborates enthusiastically. Of course, the BNG is not about to deliver a competition from those we've assumed. We're why we have as many as possible; of course, not just one more delivery. So we have a lot of doubts that he is sympathetic to the Data Protection Act. By dumping personal data and transmitting confidential data from people, of course -- we've already expressed it on other occasions -- we have many doubts that this card, as it is -- at least for the information we have -- complies with the Data Protection Act. People in vulnerable situations, users of social services, beneficiaries of aid and unemployment aid, are also entitled to the protection of their data, of their privacy. Not only the Data Protection Act is designed for wealthy people and for fraudsters and others, but also for low-income people. And, of course, we, the maximum precaution on this matter, too, in this case. And also because under this terminology that sounds good, that wants to sound beneficial to the people you're destined to, you hide a reality, of course, quite different. It's nothing new, they've tried it on different occasions, in different formats, but with the same end. The reality is that more efforts are being made to bureaucracy, to analyze what people say to ask for help, to gather information, than to analyze the causes of these people being in this situation, and much less use efforts to allocate resources to request it. In a context where the portfolio of services is alarmingly diminished, cut; in a context where the recovery of stolen social rights will only come from the struggle that the working class will be able to make in the streets, of course it will not come from the efforts of the Government of the People's Party; in a context where very large social sectors are discovered, in a situation of tremendously broad vulnerability; in a context where the People's Party will vote against increasing 100 euros, a supplement to the month for people in tremendously vulnerable situations, very low pensions; in this context the People's Party wants us to look at the finger and not the moon. For this card that the directors and managers of public services have called "meat of the least have"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u173	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u174	...carne of charity, of course, will not count on the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. As expected, because if we take the Congressary Journal of Members of the committees on which this initiative was discussed, some Members have taken the words of their colleagues at the Congress of Deputies to come here, to the Parliament of Galicia, to speak of the universal social card. It's more, instead of talking about the Greek social file, they talked about the social file in Andalusia. They even copied the intervention, and instead of talking about Galicia, they talked about Andalusia. I think you should spend a little less on frivolity and fear and involve yourself a little more in preparing social initiatives in this Parliament, because we are talking about something important. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, as they focus on making a frivolous and fearful policy, here comes the spokesman for the Socialist Group, which seems to not know that the only two people with a firm judgment condemned by corruption in Galicia are the Socialist Party, the former mayor of Ourense and the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. But, of course, as he is dedicated to studying the issues he considers appropriate, he comes here to say these kinds of questions. Under the terms laid down, because, of course, to argue the vote against this People's Group initiative, they say that they will be removed or removed from the autonomous communities. Mr President, if the other Members bother this run-run, this member of the People's Party too, because as we make ourselves so exquisite... Of course! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Exquisiteness for everyone, right? Thank you, President. We are talking about collaboration, collaboration!, autonomous communities with the state. We're not talking about the state usurping the powers of the autonomous communities. Because without data from the autonomous communities, Mrs Prado, it would be impossible for the Government of the State to launch the universal social card. And then you make the same mistake here saying that this is going to be a meat for the most needy or a meat for the poor. Well, look, all the Greeks and the Greeks are going to have the right to have that universal social card, because they can all be included, all of them!, on that universal social card. And, of course, you can't come here to talk about an initiative that will be very important for Galicia and for all the autonomous communities because it has already been discussed at the Congress of Deputies. You may have an opportunity here to talk about the social card because the Congress of Deputies is not the BNG. It's just that we're doing them a favor, that you couldn't talk about the card at the Congress of Deputies, and in the Galician Parliament you can talk about the social card. [[Applause]] So you should be grateful for the opportunity the People's Party gives you today, not only to talk about the universal social card, but also to support it, so that the Greeks can benefit from it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u177	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u178	We accept the amendment of the Socialist Group and we do not accept the amendment of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Yes, what do you want the word for, Mrs. Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u180	On the basis of Article 76...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u181	I wasn't presiding at that time. No, but what exactly is the inaccurateness? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] There I was, yeah. Sorry, no, there you are wrong. I'll fix it. [[Protests.]] Mr. Baltar's case is filed. No, I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Baltar's case... that doesn't need anyone to answer it, I'll answer it: it's filed. You don't have the floor. [[Murmurs.]] No, no. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] You're not right there. [[Murmurs.]] Get out. I'm sorry, but I'm not. [[Protests.]] I don't think so. Next proposal is not law. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, concerning the request by the Greek Government for mediation and arbitration of the Galician Labour Relations Council in the negotiation between the Galician Council and the strike committee of the staff of the Administration of Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u182	This motion for a non-legislation tabled an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u183	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u184	Mr. President, you must bear in mind that the Baltar family is a large family.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u185	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u186	There's a father and a son. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Yes, for some of them are doomed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u187	I'm sorry, but you're confused. I'm not gonna keep talking to you. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u188	I want to greet the representation of the unions of justice, who are here today. We've been on strike for 77 days, one of the longest in the history of the Welsh administration; a strike that can teach us some lessons. Of course, we want to judge today, evaluate today, what was the behaviour of the German Government, because we think it's not a good example of managing a strike, and they should avoid for the future these kinds of attitudes that they had. We believe, moreover, that they had the utmost responsibility on this issue, Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijóo, who have done over these 77 days -- and before that also -- great efforts to avoid an agreement. They acted with marrulerie and macarrism many times, with a more peculiar attitude of hooligans than public officials. I'd wonder why they even leaked personal data and documents from people on the strike committee, and that can't be done. That's not lawful, it can't be done; it's a crime, on the other hand. And also prepotence and matonism, because they constantly threatened, even blackmailed by asking for the abandonment of the strike as a condition to negotiate. You should know -- and it's something you don't understand, which is also a basic principle of democracy -- that strike is a right, it's a right of the working class. The strike is also a weapon to conquer, or, at least in this case, to regain labor and wage rights that have been stolen with the excuse of the crisis and that in some cases come to 10,000 euros a year. Between 3,440 and 10,000 euros a year lost, with the excuse of the crisis, the workers and the workers of justice. Of course, you have proposed -- the People's Party, Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijóo -- negotiation in this conflict as a sort of pulse, a pulse that was to be won, because for you how this conflict was solved was a laboratory in view of the possible claims of other collectives of the Greek administration, who are there, in the queue, waiting to be able to pose their claims as well. That's why he explains a lot of his attitudes. But the reality is that there are a lot of collectives who are aggravated, there are a lot of pending claims, and you can already remember that they're coming next. You don't understand that when a collective gets to a measure as extreme as a strike, and an indefinite strike, it's that they're really done with patience and they've been closed to other ways, because they've tried other ways of negotiation. You shut those doors, you shut those tracks, and you left them no choice but to go to an indefinite strike. And they don't understand that when a conflict has so much support -- yes, yes, laugh; you laugh, you look like a laugh --. Despite all the sacrifices that they have to do and all that they are losing when they have so much support, despite also of minimal abusive services... because they are actually defending a fair cause and a cause felt by most of the collective, in which there are certainly also many sympathetic people who could vote for the People's Party. In the evolution of the conflict and the siege that this conflict suffered, we thought that it had much to do with the pre-Power, the cholery and the capacity to provoke the Greek Government, above all -- I insist -- of the president and vice-president of the Greek Government, who made the exhibition and made the alarm throughout this time of disqualifications, insults and contempt of the collective of justice. Instead of having bridges, what they did was dynamite them over these months; Mr. Rueda first, before the conflict began, refusing for years to receive union representation; secondly, accusing a collective who suffered brutal pay cuts and rights of being privileged, selfish and insolidarian, continually encircling the spirits; thirdly, manipulating the data to breach the December parliamentary agreement; and fourthly, boycotting the external mediation, none of the collective and the strike committee, attempting to break the strike with the maximum of "divided and you will win". And they even pretended, after the consultation that was made to the collective of workers and workers, to subject the other side to an attempt of a humiliating defeat. Instead, therefore, of attempting to set up an agreement, an honorable and satisfactory agreement for all parties, they wanted union representation to surrender with arms and luggage. They led the conflict to a limited situation, to points of no return, and ended up desiccising again and again of ultimatums who also put on the table. That's why we're now in a situation on April 25, breaking up, breaking up negotiations, a new ultimatum, as usual to do always Mr. [...], Mr. Rueda, and... what happened? [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this phrase shall be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are in a situation where the strike is kept alive and with the serious consequences we know, starting with the strikers themselves, who are losing an important part of their salary and suffering an important sacrifice too, with the negative consequences it has for the service of justice and for the entire population, logically. The reality is that in these months and in the last few weeks there have been approximations, there have been agreements at various points, it's true, and that postures are much closer; they are, of course, much closer. I have here a painting that has published the trade union organizations where it looks like, in the question of wages, there has been an important approach to postures. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document.]] And it's not that there's a difference, as it's said, for 12 euros -- which is really very close to 12 euros a month -- actually, in the worst case, we're talking about 18 euros a month. There is a union proposal for wage increase to be a linear increase of 140 euros a month for the collective of forensics, managers, processors and helpers, and Galician Board proposes 140 -- i.e. the same amount -- for forensics; 135 -- 5 euros minus -- for managers; 127 -- 13 euros minus -- for processors; and 122 -- 18 euros minus -- for aid. So you have to admit that the postures are close. Then there are other aspects also pending to wake up and negotiate. One very important thing is the review clause, in order to avoid new discrimination in the future and that the collective is always in a position, at least, in the middle or fourth position of the state average. And finally, there's also pending to wake up the Action Plan and get back to work because of the strike trips, but here too there are certain points of approach and therefore the possibility of an agreement. Finally, at this point, it is fundamental and it is essential to look for an exit; it is fundamental to look for an exit and to stage an agreement, an honorable agreement; it cannot be a humiliating agreement, as the Galician Union intends. It's not about defeating the opposite, it's about agreeing something that's beneficial to the majority. And that's why given this confrontation, given this upheaval, given this upheaval where we are right now, but also the approximations that exist, the best thing is to look for an external mediation. Mediation we understand has to be of the Galego Labour Relations Council. First of all, because by the time you've meddled, there's been significant progress in the negotiation. And secondly, because the very law of the Galego Labour Relations Council establishes that it is its function to mediation and arbitration in labour conflicts, above all it says "in conflicts of great social impact." So let's give this opportunity to external mediation, let's make this last effort with external arbitration, to sew up the wounds, which, of course, there are many in this conflict, to try to approach positions and reach an agreement; a beneficial agreement for the staff of the Administration of Justice, but above all a beneficial agreement to improve the service and administration of justice in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u189	Thank you, Mr Bará. Mr. Bará, I would ask you to remove the expression, when you referred to Mr. Rueda, from [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u190	He's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u191	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u192	Video killed the radio star is a song of the year 1979, hyperfamous, which today Rubén Amón, in an article, expressly quoted: "With Cifuentes has not finished capital corruption; it has been done by arrogance, lies and ridicule." And we don't want this strike to end badly and these mobilizations of the workers of justice end badly under the pride, the lie, and the ridicule. That is why we hope that the BNG will accept our amendment and, in any case, we will vote in favour of its initiative. They take 78 days off today, and it's many days for the workers, for the professionals; for whom we are entitled, we call them "the justifiable." Too many days to know if you really are interested in a more agile, guaranteed justice, with the fundamental right to effective, more modern judicial custody and more than this twenty-first century, because that's what this is about. A few days ago there was a day of strike by judges, judges and prosecutors. On the 18th, the judicial secretaries went out to the street and on the 19th, the lawyers and the lawyers of the shift went out to the street. This strike is not an isolated fact, it's not something that happens to the workers of justice and to the workers because they have the money, nor is it because they want to face the government. It's just that justice has been for decades -- decades! - in a situation like this. And the person in charge -- we suppose -- that part of this has been like this is who is responsible for justice in Galicia, which is Mr. Rueda, who has spent almost eight years on justice as well. It's paralysed, and what we need now is to get a solution. They're out of pride, and they're out of it, they're out of it, they're out of it, they're out of it, they're out of it, they're out of it, they're out of it, they're messy, they're out of it, they're out in the media, they're blaming union representatives for doing their job. And citizens, workers and professionals don't deserve any government like that, no deal like that. We don't deserve to be lied about a principle of agreement, an agreement signed by four unions, signed by four unions, because it's not true. There was a meeting called by the Government -- by the way, the Government called one by one, until it reached four unions -- and there was no agreement because three others were missing and because it was a failure to talk to the workers of the possibility according to which Mr. Rueda offered. We have requested that signed, signed agreement through Article 9. Here it is. Let's hope they sign it to us by the four unions; to see how many months, or even years, or even legislations, we wait for it. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows a document.]] And we wonder why Mr. Rueda didn't call the other unions. If you could call those four, why didn't you call the other three? And why was he also the one who got up from the negotiating table when he was told: three is missing and workers and workers are missing to sign the possibility of reaching an agreement? We don't understand why, because it wasn't the unions who got up, it was him who got up. The unions, no, him, because he was at that meeting. And we also don't deserve an amendment from your parliamentary group so that Parliament is a gang of looters who ask the unions to do it, I don't know what. Let Mr. Wheel your phone again and talk to them directly. He doesn't need us. Parliament is not about to do errands, Parliament is for much more important things, even though some people come here to party when it suits them. In this amendment we remember and in this amendment we do not need to ask the Government to meet with anyone; the Government has the capacity to meet whenever it wants. This is a tragedy, unfortunately, historic in the country, because it's the longest strike since democracy began, unfortunately. And you can't reduce to a supposed assumption that no one has signed or can reduce the amounts, because it's not true. It's not a quantitative strike. They're still negotiating, they're still negotiating where they left him on April 19th, and, if necessary, they use the Galician Labour Relations Council. First you'll have to agree to the Councillor of Fairy, the Industry Adviser and the Vice President of Justice, to enable the Galician Labour Relations Council again. Because, as BNG says, maybe, it could have been December 19, 2017 -- and we would save a lot of damage and a lot of time -- the day it went on and the place where an agreement was reached, because there, actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u194	... -- finished already -- if progress has been made. With scepticism, use it. The president himself of the Galego Labour Relations Council, at a meeting, at a table that was held 15 days ago, she left at the table, for all of us there, a document called the Greek Inter-Professional Agreement on Extrajudicial Procedures for Settlement of Work Conflicts, which edits the Council itself. And on page 51 there are referees from the four provinces, people who are the Galician Council and therefore the Government... [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows a publication.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u196	...accept as possible arbitrators. They use every possible means, never the media, and never the sovereignty and the scorn, and they come to an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. First of all, I would like to point out that today, in fact, 78 natural days of the indefinite strike of the staff of the management, processing and relief bodies in the service of the Administration of Justice. And in these 78 days, you have to say that you have worked hard on the negotiating committee of the Galician Union to put an end to this conflict. We have always said, from the very first moment, that we wanted to put the Greek officials of justice on the remuneration average of the other territories, and that is why we voted unanimously in this Parliament, in this plenary, a parliamentary mandate consisting of improving the working conditions of the staff in the service of the Administration of Justice, transferred to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. There's been no negotiation here. Here there were up to 16 meetings with trade union organizations, and the offer made to them by the Galician Council on 18 April assumed that the Greek officials would become fourth in the state ranking of autonomous communities, and also envisaged an annual review clause so that the supplement paid by the Autonomic Administration would go up automatically, so that Galicia would always be above average. Right now I'd be behind the Basque Country, Madrid and Cantabria. In this last offer -- which I'm not going to report here because it's already known -- it's true that if we add only the concept of transitional autonomic supplement can almost give a payroll more a year; if we add only that supplement, and with the advantage, in addition, that the 1st January of next year would be charging 80 percent of that increase of the autonomic supplement. But in addition to these previous amounts, adding the increase agreed at the state level and which pays for the Galician Union, they would represent an increase of more than 13 % and an average increase of 300 euros a month. And also, in addition to this agreement, this proposal was agreed by the Galician Council to respond to the other four requests made at the beginning of the strike. One was the expansion of assumptions of temporary incapacity, in which one hundred percent of salaries are perceived; the economic compensation of staff performing replacements in the upper body -- the famous vertical replacements -- ; the consolidation of reinforcement squares of more than three years of duration; and the creation of squares within the framework of the Staff Change Plan approved in 2012. This was the request that caused the strike, and that was Parliament's mandate, and the Government of the Galician Union scrupulously fulfilled that mandate which came out of here, of the Galician Parliament. But some union representatives decided that the strike had to continue. And it's just that, in addition, on the basis of the Galician Board's own initiative -- in addition, documented -- that improvements were offered in those judges with competences in gender violence, the extension of maternity and paternity leave, the action plan and recovery of lost work during the months of strike, so that it was sought to recover at least 80% of the work delayed due to the strike, also the proratement of the pending discounts of strike, so that they didn't have to assume a single blow, in one month, and it was also about professional career. For all this, we believe that it is not a moment of mediation; for which it would be a time for trade unions to validate the pre-agreement offered by the Galician Union, with which agreement was reached with most trade unions, and that trade unions had submitted that proposal to the staff member's consultation. It would be nice to know what the workers of justice think about this agreement. The parliamentary initiative presented here by the BNG talks about mediation. I'm going to refer to what the president of the Galego Labour Relations Council says, which says it's no time for mediation, that it would no longer serve to mediate, that at this point there is no mediation that is necessary, that its moment has passed and that no more mediation is necessary. I don't think it's necessary to have more explanations on this subject, but it's not mediation either when a part changes its stance. The petition of the workers who caused the strike two months ago was to improve the payouts of the self-sustainment of the judicial officers, and that petition was heard and met, and there's that proposal agreed, that concern which was reached with the majority of the unions. What's going on is that maybe some unions -- the minority -- are thinking more about their union interests than about the workers, maybe that's the problem. And some unions may not look for an agreement, but the way -- I don't know -- to try to get more union representation in the next union elections. But we have to think that this strike is causing deep trouble and damage to Greek society, we see it in the media. And it's just that, besides, a strike should never in any case suppose for users to suffer disproportionate sacrifices, and I'm not talking about nuisances, I'm talking about sacrifices, because we're talking about providing services that are estimated to be essential, the exercise of a fundamental right, the right to legal and effective guardianship, as fundamental as the right to strike, and as respectable. And here there are prejudices like lawyers, prosecutors, witnesses, experts, but above all the users of justice, who, without having any part in this matter, are seeing and suffering many sacrifices for this strike. That's why we expect this proposal to be put into effect, to be analysed, to be consulted with the workers, because the proposal that the German Government put on the table, a salary increase of between 3,500 and 4,500 euros a year, a clause that guarantees them always to charge over the average and a work recovery plan, we think, honestly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u200	...which goes far beyond the parliamentary agreement. The demands made by the unions after breaking the agreement with the Galician Union go much further and have nothing to do with it. Therefore, all positions and claims are respectable, but it's really hard to explain a rejection to an offer of an increase of 13%. I don't think we can speak in any case of surrender or a humiliating proposal, with all due respect. We therefore hope that the BNG will accept our amendment and allow workers to consult this proposal made by the Galician Council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u201	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I also want to thank and greet the union representatives who are here with us, and to show them all the support of En Marea, both them as workers, as union representatives, as well as the strike committee, and ultimately to the workers and workers of justice. A support and thanks for defending legitimate rights to exercise rights, rights like strike, to obtain labor and economic rights that Mr. Feijóo -- the democrat and the constitutionalist, and also has given us great thought to Mr. Moreira --...while we choose to support those who exercise constitutional and democratic rights, they try to criminalize the democrats -- Mr. Feijóo, the constitutionalist democrat -- and try to divert the rights that it cost so much to be able to exercise. Then, thank you. Thank you for not giving up, for remaining in something legitimate, in something we have a right and in something that has cost so much to win. [[Applause]] Also show support for his camp, as did the people in the siege at the time, also criminalized. And there's little more to say: no one's free to charge so many weeks, and they're not camped out for pleasure. Maybe the Popular Group needs to see an equal situation. But, of course, speaking of justice -- because it's the background of all this, the gravity of the situation of justice and the attack on justice -- I think it is obliged to quote Mrs. Cifuentes' resignation, resignation for a cream, since she did not resign for what she had to resign, which is the breakdown and corruption of the Lezo and also for the master's fraud, being, in addition, a spectacle what we are seeing from the adjustment of accounts of her, from the sectors of Mr. Rajoy, via Rumorology, to force her to resign by this case after the scandals of corruption and after a month blackmailing her with a video of the theft of cream in Vallecas. Mr. Feijóo we know well how he feels, because the photographs of the Golden Martial, the narco, were another clear example of the popular party's account settings. The PP unit hit the mafia, blackmail, bribe; the party charged with mortars and corleones, which will lack Cifuentes, but the PP rot is still intact. The charged PP of the unit of love, now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u203	Mrs. Santos... Mrs. Santos, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u204	I'm talking about justice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u205	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u206	May I continue? You're going to wake up with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u207	No, no. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, excuse me a moment. Quiet. I won't cut you any freedom of expression, but what I won't consent is that you insult, that that's a different thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u208	Who did I insult?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u209	He's insulting the members of a party, all of them; he's calling them all something that doesn't work out. So I call her in order right now. I'm calling her in order right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u210	It's flexibility. Well, apparently, Mr. Santalices, presumably...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u211	It's not flexibility, it's giving common sense to speeches. You can't come to the gallery to insult. No, no, sorry, go on, but no insult. You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u212	It's a hard day for you, with the fratricidal war in your ranks. And I'm going to tell you one thing, to us, to me, to this honourable Member...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u213	Silence, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u214	...for example, I also tell you, I don't like to burn women in the village square, neither those of my ranks nor those of the opposition ranks. Then all my solidarity with Mrs. Cifuentes. And that's why I also tell you... because I think I had to resign for corruption, for corruption. [[Interruptions.]] But we already see that "the People's Party of Love" uses fratitic war to fix its problems, and without parallel. [[Murmurs.]] That is why Mrs Rodríguez Arias should talk about meats, but about the use of the meats of some honourable Member, about the "gift gifts" of their ranks and should explain to us what meat has used. But I'm getting into the matter -- because I want to talk about justice, and this is a matter of justice too, because it keeps showing a political practice of popular governments -- the acting of the Board, both to alleviate corruption and to solve the problems of justice, it's scandalous, macaroa, belligerent, and here we see another test. Now they're going to scratch 12 euros, 18, I don't care! That's why we support the entire BNG initiative, while government members keep on raising their salaries and still not fighting because all of their defendants return what they stole to have money so that people can recover their rights, people and public officials. I agree that the background of this strip and afloat is that other sectors of government and public employees can start the same claims, because they've polished us for years, while you've kept your privileges, and the spole, corruption, and all that while you're running is a people's voice, and they're also famous, so they're charged with corruption. They won't be able to defeat these workers, because the social debate has already lost it, they've lost it. They say what they say, and they send what the executives send, for example from the TVG, you've already lost the social debate. They use their selective ethics to be up to it, to reach a decent agreement -- yes, worthy -- that is beneficial for workers and workers, and also for the service of justice, because we need justice that really works in our country, that there is no selective justice, that there is no fiscal intervention, that they have means, resources, decent working conditions to perform their work properly and properly, and that they are dedicated to pursuing the defendants and returning what is stolen, since you do not. And that's why I tell you the same thing, they go too late, the damage that is caused to many people who are being harmed, even accused, or people who report in a multitude of cases that are suffering from non-defense, who please apply when negotiating, negotiating with common sense, with dignity, but who have your dignity with the structural corruption that this country is suffering and its own ranks, and who respect justice, labour rights and the right to strike.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u216	Thank you, President. Mr. Moreira, you cannot deny that you are obedient; obedient to Mr. Rueda's and Mr. Feijóo's slogans. Come here to provoke again and attack the unions, when I should come here to hold bridges and search for agreements. You're coming to put more wood on fire. Besides, they're falling into permanent contradiction. You said here that the last proposal of Junta, of 18 April, met the parliamentary agreement that placed us in a room in the state, but you have been saying the same with all the offers, and the first offer was the fourth part of it, and also the parliamentary agreement. [[Applause]] But how can this be! The reality is that if the Union has increased its offer over these months it has been in the struggle, and it has been a conquest won by the staff of justice, making a major, massive and exemplary strike. With regard to the Galego Labour Relations Council, you talk to me here about the president, I'll tell you what the law says. The law states: "Promoting and facilitating mediation and arbitration provided for in labour conflicts by petition of interested parties". The strike committee has asked for it repeatedly. It is not necessary to ask Galician Union. To this end, it may make proposals, recommendations and offers of arbitration or mediation, in particular with regard to conflicts of broad impact in the Autonomous Community. And if there is a conflict of broad impact on the Autonomous Community in which the Council must mediate, it is precisely this. Look, we're not going to accept the amendment, because Parliament doesn't have to tell the strike committee that you have to make a consultation, that's a sovereign and autonomous decision of the strike committee, that you will have to decide when you consider it appropriate, we're not going to tell you here. With regard to the proposed amendment of the Socialist Party, which is a substitution amendment, we will accept it in part, because we propose a transaction, so that the first point is collected; as a first point the proposal made by the BNG to request the mediation and arbitration of the Galego Labour Relations Council in the negotiation between the Galician Council and the Justice Administration Folga Committee, and as a second point to comply with the unanimous agreement of the plenary of December 19, 2017, maintaining the ongoing dialogue with the strike committee until the service is reestablished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u217	Thank you, Mr Bará. Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Carlos Enrique López Crespo and seven other Members, on the development by the Galician Board of the Strategic Plan of Conservation, Horizon 2020, as well as the initiation, in collaboration with the sector, of the elaboration and drafting of the Strategic Plan of Frozenness, with the horizon in 2025
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u218	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u219	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u220	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The last GNP of this plenary session has to do with the sea sector, it has to do with the fish processing sector, it has to do with employment, with economics, with the development of Galicia, with quality and with a very important part of this Autonomous Community. Today from this House we want to give a definitive boost to the Strategic Plan of the Conservation, Horizon 2020, and we want to urge the development of the Frozen Plan, with the horizon set in 2025. So we're also talking about the future, we're talking about guarantee, solvency, strategic sectors in Galicia. From Parliament we want to outline the lines with which the Council of Galicia and the Council of the Sea have to work with the company dedicated to this point, they have to make a fundamental connection for this to develop, to generate employment and to generate wealth in this Community. Before explaining correctly the fundamental lines or measures for the development of the plans of the law, some data that justify this proposal, which justifies the need -- and almost the obligation -- that we would go ahead with this LNP from this Parliament and that the Union cooperates with the sector. We are going with the data, Spain in this case is the first producer country of preserves and semi-conservations of fish and seafood of the European Union, and according to the world level, and Galicia in turn is the main autonomous Spanish Community in the production of preserves, fish and seafood, and Greek production represents 86% of the volume produced at the national level, and not only that, but Galicia is the first European region and the second in the world in the production of fish and seafood cans. 41.4% of the Spanish canneries are in Galicia, which is 60 of the 145 totals in Spain, and it is appropriate to look at the good behavior of this sector in recent years, which seems to grow steadily. If 2016 was a positive year and we talked about that the production of the preserve in Galicia was 301,397 tonnes, accounting for 86,5 % throughout Spain, in 2017 we talked about the increase in the economy, and the sector in Spain accounted for a total of 1,603 million euros, increased by 300,1405 tons, and 5,5 % compared to the previous year, therefore, this brings up to the German GDP in this sector by 3 %. If we talk about increase in quantity and economic value, we also talk about employment, which is one of the most important factors in this LNP, which also presents other groups, and they also refer to their amendments. A sector that in 2017 gave jobs to 15,500 people across the country, and 80% of these jobs were in Galicia, or, what is the same, 12,500 people working in the conservation sector, and most women. As far as conservation exports are concerned, Spain began exporting 175,875 tonnes in 2016, to 191,802 in 2017, which is 9.7% more, increasing its value by 17.9 %. But it's just that the data in Galicia, as I said, continues to increase and we have to talk about exports, because exports in the conservation, as in other fields and other sectors, are developing in a very positive framework; you will know that we have a favorable context, a very positive context, because Galicia has its own export record again in 2017. For the third consecutive year we managed to be the second most successful autonomous Community, ICES data, data from Galicia's external trade report in 2017; it therefore reflects that exports of goods exceeded the 21 billion euro barrier last year, so Galicia is among the most exportable Spanish communities. That has a lot to do with it, and it's very important with the conserver sector and the frozen sector. These results are a result of many factors, but the work of the Galician Union of course is present. And how is he present? Why? On the one hand, working to improve marketing. In the course of marketing, the Council of the Sea has increased the budget to improve this area and this marketing of products by 40 %, more than 9 million in 2018. Investment for the main international trade fairs in the maritime-fishing sector, a representation of the Galician Union, the councillor, is in the Seafood in Brussels speaking on this subject and selling our products. It's worth a total of 2 million euros this year, 15.3% more than in 2017, and we're looking back at 21.6% more than in 2009. So the marketing and selling of our products outside is very important because we know that the return is always bigger. Over the course of this year, the Sea Council will be present at twelve national and international fisheries and food fairs, with the aim of helping industry expand its business contacts and expand its activities. Another important job, another step in which the Galician Union is supported to work with this sector is with the Conservative Plan. What did you do to develop this conservation plan? First of all, a review of the situation in which the sector was found, and revised the changes produced in its structure, has seen the main challenges that must be faced to reinforce its position in the 21st century on the international market, and for this reason the Union, through the Council of the Sea, commissioned a report, a study at Cetmar, a strategic plan of the conservation industry, requiring, in addition, the involvement of industry through Anfaco-Cecopesca. The conclusion after the studies on diagnosis was the following: a mission and a vision. The mission was to increase the weight of the conservation industry in the whole of the Greek economy, improve the competitive position on international markets and promote the maintenance of productive capacity and employment associated with this activity in Galicia. No one already doubts the quality of the product, now you have to try to get to know how many more parts of the world are better. Vision, vision is to consolidate the leadership of the Greek Conservative industry as the world's largest and most efficient producer of high-quality fish and seafood conserves in the global market. What's in the conservation plan? In short, we are talking about six measures of this plan, which you can consult. First of all, measures to maintain and facilitate the conditions for access to raw materials -- we have always started from the beginning -- ; measures to consolidate existing and even improve existing business structures; measures to strengthen internationalisation and export activity; measures to strengthen the reputation of product, brands and production; measures to strengthen competitiveness by means of R & D+i activities, which do not stop growing; and, sixthly, measures to ensure continuity and/or growth and stability and quality of employment. As I began, I ended by talking about this conservation plan, employment is one of the most important points of this plan, and consolidation and increase in this area. We must be aware, and surely we are all aware in this House, that this is part of a conglomerate of transformation in which the fish refers, and that it makes us leaders. Therefore, to continue to move forward and to maintain this leadership, to maintain this positioning, we must begin with the hand of the other side of the transformer sector the drafting of the Strategic Plan for Frozenness as well, with the view set in the year 2025. We, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, believe that it would be very beneficial to start with the hands of the sector, to start with the hand of Congemar to the head, as the most important representative of the frozen sector -- voluntarily, of course -- and the figures they animate, and the figures that justify this work, would be the following: Congemar brings together more than 200 companies in the sector, is a cohesion instrument that presents billing figures of more than 7,500 million euros and generates some more than 16,000 direct jobs, and we have to point out that the international frozen fair is held in Galicia, is celebrated in Vigo. Together, Junta is also working on improving facilities for this fair to go ahead with Ifevi's expansion, but that's one day, or three days, a time for all the work of a whole year and a whole industry behind the frozen sector. In all the above, we believe that we are faced with a great opportunity to give the Government of Greece a boost so that it will continue to work in these areas, so that it will continue to work on improving and modernizing development methods and give it the importance they deserve -- rather than justified by the data I have just presented -- to the aforementioned plans of preserve 2020 or frozen 2025. It would therefore be very beneficial for all to have this initiative come out of here unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u222	In fact, we're in front of the last proposal not of law in the morning. It is true that I have to continue to focus on the kind of initiatives brought by the People's Party, because it brings us this non-law proposition where Galician Union urges to develop the strategic plan of the conservation. A strategic plan that the advisor presented in August 2017, by the hands of industry representatives, and a strategic plan where we have already been told about what the honourable lady here has been saying, with which we have to reach at least two conclusions. Or that we're not supposed to be developing this strategic plan presented five or nine months ago, that we don't trust each other, that they're not doing it, or that they need to come here to see if we don't have historical memory, if we don't have heeroteca, and it looks like they're urging the government. First question. That's why I'm not going to mention that it's a strategic sector of the preserve for Galicia, it's obvious. I'm not going to deny the data you referred to here. I do regret that it could be more strategic, that it could generate a lot more employment, if the decisions that have been made were not made and that they represented a decrease in the sector. And, above all, a tremendously feminized sector that was a tractor sector for women's employment. And I'm from a district like Salnés, where the steps taken by the People's Party have led to a dramatic reduction in jobs. That's why I said that the BNG has tabled an amendment in which we demand that this Parliament receive part of that strategy. That is to say, it is not to lay down duties, is that in this period of sessions the strategy is presented for the increase of indigenous products, both fisheries and shellfish, destined for both conserved and frozen. Because, of course, one of the issues is that, within those strategies that you just defined here -- and then I'm going to go to the topic of employment -- there's no strategy to keep it as a tractor of increasing consumption of its own products in that conserve. We know that one very important part is tuna, and the other very important part are products that are packed here in one part, but another, of course, are products from outside, which we don't see within that strategy a part that is intended for increased consumption of itself. So another very important part of our amendment is that public aid to this plan is always linked to the maintenance of employment in Galicia, preventing the relocation of companies and subcontracting of tasks. Because, of course, very important words of this strategy are: internationalization, innovation and so on, but, of course, one of our concerns is where this internationalization, that innovation, and where these jobs are destined. You know a very important part is being relocated. You know that a very important part of that work is already taking place outside of Galicia, for example, in Portugal. And what we want is that public money destined for this strategy is never meant to create jobs outside of Galicia. It seems logical to us that public money is dedicated to creating jobs in Galicia; that public aid is linked to generating employment and employment stability in Galicia. And why do we put this amendment, Madam President? Because you referred here to the fact that part of that strategy is aimed at generating employment and stability, but at no time was there any interaction with workers -- basically they're workers -- or with their union representatives. It turns out that you're the only ones who agree, speak and interact with the part of the industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u223	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u224	What about the union and the workers? Turns out they never have a time to talk to them. And then, another part of the amendment that we tabled by the BNG is that the Government of Greece is preparing, in dialogue with the sector and political organizations, the Strategic Plan of Frozenness and the presentation in this Parliament before the end of this year 2018. A little homework, because you come here with botafume initiatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u226	...to say nothing, as you will understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u228	This Parliament will have to receive something from that strategy and have something to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u230	With which, I hope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u232	...accept the amendment of the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u233	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Today we're talking about the cannery. It's a shame that PP hasn't shown so much concern about preserving the fish as it has shown about keeping some videos since 2011. Because we already know that when PP gets to destroy, it's able to destroy the same hard drive 6 or 8 times. [[Applause]] That's a shame! The truth is, I do. By the way, I also wonder when they're going to resign their PP colleagues who kept that copy and knew it had existed since 2011. But, as we said, we're talking about the cannery, and today the PP is bringing us an initiative. We have made an amendment, indeed, and our amendment is simply so that this initiative that the PP presents can be realized. Without our amendment we understand that it could not be possible, because what we ask for is budgetary support. If you're going to make a plan, give yourself a few games, run those games by 2018. Especially because this plan has already been widely announced in 2017 by the PP, widely announced. They were concerned that he had come out in all means, that he had been collected, but they forgot something else important, that was to develop the plan. It's not the first time it's happened, it's happened other times, and it's not the first strategic plan that makes this government to preserve it. In fact, if we go into the website, on the official board of Galicia, we can find this: "Rosa Quintana defines the strategic plan of the conservation as the best bet on consolidating the sector.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This could be a news release, a news release a few days ago, but if we read the date is September 18, 2010. We understand that there may be more than one strategic plan, of course, we know more than one or two; but what we also know and understand is that they need to be executed, and to run them need budget splits and, above all, run them -- we repeat --. In this connection, I would like to talk about a few seconds from Programme 723A, the competitiveness and improvement programme of the quality of fisheries and aquaculture production, where this strategic plan would be gathered. Here you see it, in yellow is the underlying credit, that is, what you could do -- in yellow -- ; in green is the executed credit, that is, what you really did. In yellow what you can and green what you've done. And, as you can see, between 2010 and 2014 there was no execution of even 30%, not even a third of the possible budget. In 2017, which is what we just closed now, only 37 % was budgeted. So from there our insistence and our amendment, when we say: the plans, yes, but we have to give them a budget back and execute the games that are won. So we understand that they won't have any problems -- especially because it's very beneficial that we all go together towards these kinds of initiatives, as you said well -- to approve and accept our amendment, as I said, because it's very good to get out in the media and explain what they're going to do, but we think it's much better to do it. To achieve those goals that they explained in the media -- such as training, competitiveness, viability, internationalization, etc. --, all these goals they've collected, it's important to have money. And I'm very sorry to be here at the pragmatics of this subject, which seems to me to be a little bit... I don't know, I don't know, about money, but yes, because if there's no money, things can't be done. The truth is that Junta today takes advantage of the good time the sector is going through to announce a strategic plan. But this sector has the same problems as any other sector, which are a consequence of PP policies. I'm talking about, for example, industrial soil, R+D+i, ICT coverage, energy, funding... because for that idea of "Global thinking and local action", which is ultimately closely linked to internationalization, ICT coverage, for example, is fundamental, as well as R+D+i. So do something, pick up our amendment. Today I also bring a recent news from a medium -- which I know these things love when we bring news, and you bring many -- that says that Galicia's new boss "let Galicia almost go down to 2.7 million people." Of course, since the time of Feijó's rule, the population has been reduced to 100,000 inhabitants. Maybe they're saying, what's this talk about? Man, if there's no job opportunities, people go, and that's the problem we have. That's why I understand they don't understand it, but we're the second community with less foreign population. [[Applause]] We all know that foreigners go precisely to the most dynamic markets, to the markets where there are job opportunities. And Galicia precisely -- you can read it in this news -- it's the second thing less foreigners get. So, just point out that, with respect to the second part of the amendment, we incorporate innovation, because the world population is estimated that by 2050 it will be 9,000 million people; now it is about 7 billion people, there will be a demographic explosion -- not in Galicia, it became clear -- and for that it will be necessary to increase natural resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u236	...food resources. So that's why we incorporate that part into our amendment, because innovation is going to be an essential factor. As it's very beneficial -- as you said -- that we all go hand in hand, we understand that they won't have any trouble accepting our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again faced with another filling initiative of the People's Party that says nothing. We've had one of the discards and now we have this one, which shows that the People's Party in Galicia is bored of ruling. He's so bored of ruling, he's so determined or so dispersed in other matters that are happening to him, the corruption festival and the pre-estial festival of his famous cases, that he no longer has any desire to govern or bring us anything that really helps the productive sectors and that he fulfills the responsibilities they have to fulfill. We can talk about certain data of interest so we can argue a little bit about why we say this from the En Marea Group. What's clear is that the conservation industry has been doing more than three years increasing its billing and benefits -- Mrs. Egerich himself explained it here very well --, 3% of GDP, macro data, and of course we want the conservation industry to work well, it's obvious that we want it to work well because we have a lot of families working in the canteens, especially women, what happens is that this is not correlated with the number of jobs, which is in quite a frozen proportion. Even if we compare this GDP data with the employment data, you can see a decline trend more than the increase in some specific cases. It is true that Anfaco's data is located in 2008, 10,050 workers, and in 2017, 11,637. But what we're not talking about is, for example, the conservation industry closed during the Feijóo Government, as can be Conservation Alonso, Calvo Esteiro or Cuca Conservation. In addition, something that has already been mentioned in this plenary, in the case of Calvo Esteiro, which left that district in a dramatic situation, above all, knowing the root problems in the population, the situation of the roads of communication and the labor problem we have in certain areas that are not so urban. Therefore, for us any improvement project in the conservation industry should aim, firstly, to increase on the basis of these data and benefits, and this 3% of GDP, the number of jobs in proportion to that 3% of GDP, and not only for the benefit of businesses. We're not talking anymore about the working conditions of the conservatory employees. Recently we were in Pontevedra at a meeting with conservative workers and the situation of precariousness and lack of minimum working conditions living is dramatic. In the case of women, we hear cases that are really sorry. I was already well-known to all my family members who work in the canteen, but listen to it first-hand, it's always surprising when you see that it's something totally generalized, it's not suited to an industry, to a particular factory. Another of the fundamental issues to be addressed is to increase the target species and therefore the plurality of production of ours conserves today. 60 % of the preserve produced in Galicia is tuna, a monoculture in the preserve that has several risks: the competition of this preserve in Asia is uncommon, and we depend on European legislation to avoid the social dumping of Asian preservatives. Therefore, the future of this sector depends on the European Union's protection action against the Asian production and capture model, and we see the Government's absolute inaction, which -- we repeat -- its trouble for ruling has clear consequences for discards and this too. Then they'll come to extremes saying that we have to do something against Asian competition, trying agreements that have no meaning. Much of the product that transforms the conservation industry does not fish in Galicia or by the Galician fleet. The change of European legislation, promoted by the People's Party, allows today most of the preserved tuna that is produced in Galicia is already prepared from outside, and the only thing that is done here is to pack it, and precisely the process that the less jobs it generates is to pack. So we want to know how you're going to fight this joint. In addition, this type of preservative only uses the good name of the products of Galicia and the Galician brand on the subject of fish and preserves it to improve the expectations of sale of its product, but not of the product of Galicia. We only produced 7.35 % of the mexillon canned, being the largest producers, and in many cases, the mexillon is not even German, which is mainly Chilean mexillon. We must remember the need to improve the process of persecution and to avoid fraud in labelling, fraud in the sale of products and also preserve it. And that you don't sell yourself as a Greek thing that isn't; something that isn't collected in your proposal. Finally, and I'm done, as you have an absolute majority and do everything so well, I don't think they need any unanimity because, in fact, the opposition hasn't come here to support the measures and the popular party's program, as it is obvious, because they haven't voted for it, and when they ask for consensus they're to do things, not to bring in measures filled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u240	...and measures that do not say anything at all, as in this case. Having said this, if you accept the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, we could be used to support this initiative, if not, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u242	Thank you, President. Luckily for the conservation sector, for the sea sector, for the frozen sector, we have an absolute majority, because, if not, to see where they would stop, and they couldn't pull out as they were, and the data wouldn't be as positive as those that were exposed to my first intervention. Mrs. Toja, I came with all the good will to accept the amendment. The truth is, your amendment is nice because, at least, you ask for economic value to be added, but you did the same, a small draft, you didn't do it when you ruled. We were eager to admit that amendment, what happens is that you come here talking about videos. The videos are very important, yes, the security ones, the ones in Parliament, the ones in the parking lot as well. We need to check all security videos all the time, it's very important to check security videos. Yes, Mrs. Toja. And you come here to call, you come here to talk about other assumptions, you don't focus on the subject, so we're not going to accept the amendment. [[Applause]] And we're not going to accept the amendment because the conservation plan is already budgeted, it's already budgeted, it's planned perfectly with the sector itself, and now we have to push it, as I said, to the frozen plan, which is also very interesting. As for the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, there are several points. The public aid from this department already collects the maintenance of employment and, in addition, that activity remains in our community. That's a factor that has to be an indispensable requirement for access to these aids. So that's already being fulfilled. You also spoke in the intervention, and spoke also to Mrs. Santos, of the need for the Greek product. But the sector itself, it preserves it itself, demands much more product than there is. 70% are naked and there is no Galician. So it would be drowning him. If you reduce the product only to Galicia... the frozen sector itself and the conservation sector demand products that do not supply Galicia with the quantity they produce and transform. So there's a contradiction there and we can't accept that because we'd probably be drowning the industry and we could lose jobs. And we've moved on to the next point, which is about improving working conditions. If it is true that it is a tractor sector for women's employment, and you have all the tranquillity that with this plan and this government of the Galician Union will continue to be a tractor sector for women's employment. Of course it will, it will still be! Besides, we have that commitment and we're doing it. Finally, we do not consider it appropriate to set dates for this type of strategic plan. We've already said they're in the hands of the sector itself. You are very much to impose your criterion, to say exactly how business and sectors should go along the way they go. But we don't always resort to taxation, so we want to push, we want to go hand in hand and we want to work, but to the rhythm and needs that are demanded at every moment. So we're going to refuse the amendments. And I'm telling Mrs. En Marea, you don't know if she belongs to the same group that I asked you yesterday not to engage in debates, to focus a lot on issues, to be serious. And I also tell you one thing: before you talk, you have to look at your group and the inside of your group here in Galicia. Then bet on the conserva. It always goes to the personal plan. All right, if you support the sector and bet on the sector, I should support this initiative. And be careful with what he says because sometimes... we're still waiting for the second chapter of the telenovela de En Marea, Podemos, Anova, etc., to see what's going to happen to the Members. So you take care too many times...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u244	...to where the shot is focused. Focus on Galicia, the conservation sector and the sector... [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Thank you. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. I think we could vote today, considering that you have the script and they know what all the non-legislative proposals we're debating are, so we don't have to read them all. We started by voting on the last debate, because it's the natural order of the script, but there was a change in the agenda. We then began by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group through Mrs Egerique, who did not accept the amendments, has already stated that she did not accept them. We vote. Vote of the Proposal for a Non-Law by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Carlos Enrique López Crespo and seven other Members, on the development by the Galician Board of the Strategic Plan of Conservation, Horizon 2020, as well as the start, in collaboration with the sector, of the elaboration and drafting of the Strategic Plan of Frozenness, with the horizon in 2025. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 11; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u246	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the En Marea Parliamentary Group through Mr Marcos Cal. I am sorry, you said you accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and did not accept the point vote. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogant and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the rise of the tariffs of the fees of the AP-9 scheduled for the year 2018 on the occasion of the works of expansion of the motorway on the bridge of Rande. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u247	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group through Mrs. Maria Luisa Pierres, who did not accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. There was a compromise proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group, I understand. Isn't there? There isn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, we voted it as it's written. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members, on the launch by the Government of Greece of the actions necessary to achieve, before the end of 2018, the free regular public transport of passengers by road competed with the Autonomous Community for young people, in similar conditions, at least as those of the New People's Card. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u248	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group through Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. We vote. On the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Parliament of Galicia before the end of the first session of 2018, of a report on the implementation, during the 2016-2017 course, of the I Plan of Action for Equality in the Educational Centres of Galicia, as well as of the changes necessary for the achievement of its objectives. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u249	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? I'm sorry, okay? What are you doing now? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's two points. It is because you said that you did not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and accepted that of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, and now calls for a point vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You said you accepted that of En Marea but didn't accept that of the socialists. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] How, how...? The microphone, please, I don't hear it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u250	I accept the amendment of En Marea and I want to vote... I just want to vote separately on the first point of the initiative, and then... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u251	The rest, with the incorporation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u252	Yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u253	Perfect. First of all, let us vote on the first point of this non-law proposal. We vote. Voting of the first point of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to increase the content of the Extraordinary Fund, beneficiaries of subsidies and non-contributory pensions, and to request from the Central Government the increase of non-contributory pensions to the count equivalent to the minimum interprofessional wage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u254	We now vote the rest of the points with incorporation. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, except the first point, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Board to increase the contents of the Extraordinary Fund, beneficiaries and non-contributory pensions, and to request from the Central Government the increase of non-contributory pensions to the count equivalent to the minimum interprofessional wage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u255	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea through Mr Luis Villares Naveira. We vote. Voting of the proposal by G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council to request the Central Government to amend the bases of the summons of autonomous bodies to the National Health System to ensure the inclusion of non-discrimination clauses by the exercise of labour rights on the grounds of motherhood and the review of firm and non-firm administrative procedures where it could have given rise to a situation of discrimination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u256	We are now voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, initiative by Ms Marta Rodríguez Arias, who accepts the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and not that of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's G.P. of Galicia at the initiative of Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and eight other Members on the demand by the German Government to the central government for the implementation, in coordination with the autonomous communities and the municipalities, of the universal social card. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; votes against, 17 and no abstention. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u257	Finally, we voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which stated that it did not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, but there was a proposal for a compromise with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. If you know her, do you know the transaction? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Lea. Have you read?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u258	I've read it before.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u259	Perfect. We vote. Vote of the transactional text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the request by the Greek Government for mediation and arbitration of the Galician Labour Relations Council in the negotiation between the Galician Council and the strike committee of the staff of the Administration of Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u260	We have to ask for an effort, because if we don't, we'll defuse the schedule of everything. We'll be back at 4:30. There's also a lot of important things going on today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u261	We reset the agenda with the interpelerations. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García of G. P. de En Marea on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the environmental impact of waste water from mining
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u262	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u263	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we're going to talk more about slacker than what happens with the environmental control of mining in Galicia and the lack of transparency of its counseling than we talked about the other day. In the last plenary session I told you about a series of events that have taken place in the last few months that leave a picture for us really worrying. The Galician Union does not exercise its role of control over the environmental impacts of mining, but rather serves as a parapet, trying to block the work of collectives and people who work to protect the environment, protect the country, people who should have their collaboration and support and not their constant boycott. You don't control and intend to interfere with the work of these people. For example, he was talking about the prosecution's complaint, brought to the Court's trial, about the situation of San Fins mines. He said this prosecutor's complaint that he agreed to open criminal proceedings and transferred to the judge the serious irregularities found in the San Fins mine to continue his investigation. He warned the Prosecutor's Office of the questionable performance of the company, but also of the Galician Union, not to rule out an offence against the environment and natural resources. It warns, however, of several irregularities, one of which would be the greening of industrial water to the public domain. The company recognises this fact, which has already occurred for decades, and as the Prosecutor's Office recalls, in the face of repeated complaints, both the complaint and the diligence have been incorporated into the greenery authorization file, rather than processed with the corresponding sanctioning file. The prosecutor's office submits that, with industrial waste water spills, they have never been sanctioned so far by Galician waters. Is this true, Counselor? Is it true that there has never been a sanctioning file and the company has never been sanctioned by the repeated contaminants for decades to the rows of the environment, despite the fact that at many points the limits allowed have been exceeded? The prosecutor's office again points out to the Board that, despite being part of the mining facilities, the mining authority did not require successive owners to restore and control two waste bins. It recalls the collapse of one of the dams and the pollution caused, and that since the Mines Directorate General did not force the restoration. He considers this procedure to be at least questionable. Counsellor, why has he never acted to restore those rafts and not pose a danger to the middle? Why, Counselor, have you never acted against the actions of this company? Do you think they're doing the task of controlling this activity? The Valator of the People of the State, the Ombudsman, I am very clear. In the 2017 report, he speaks clearly: "The report by the Economic Council does not believe the proper exercise of the powers it has assigned to ensure that mining is developed in a sustainable and environmentally friendly manner." Say it or Ombudsman in the 2017 report. And he adds: "In the case of extractive activities in the Valdeorras Valley, several resolutions were addressed to the Council of Economic and Environmental Affairs of the Galician Union and the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation to assess the effects on the environment of extractive activity, including the affections to the hydraulic public domain, which decide the corrective measures to be taken and identify the person responsible for their adoption." From the information received, Counsellor, the Ombudsman says that it is deduced that the administrations do not know precisely the state of mining in an area where banks were disposed of, contaminated rivers and made deposits of uncontrolled waste. Do you think this is serious, Counselor? Does it seem serious to you what the Ombudsman is describing in the 2017 report? To us, yes. It may not seem as usual to you. To us, yes. The report by the Economic Council does not believe the proper exercise of the powers it has assigned by the legal system to ensure that mining is developed in a sustainable manner with regard to the environment, as established by the Mining Management Act. Say it or the Ombudsman. The Council does not report in sufficient detail on the results of the inspections carried out in relation to the environmental damage caused or on compliance by operators with the environmental obligations imposed, nor on the adequacy of the guarantees provided for environmental restoration, or on the actions being carried out to repair such damage or on the abandoned holdings. Counsellor, it's very serious what the Ombudsman is saying, and he's already said something similar in 2014 -- that is, something that passes the time and goes on in the same situation. It also concludes that once the damage occurs, and I quote the words of the Ombudsman: "Once the environmental damage is produced, the Administration often finds it difficult to repair it: the impossibility of finding the person responsible, the insolvency of them, the prescription of the infringements or the expiry of the sanctioning procedures." Counselor, this has been reported by us. I mean, often they don't deal with restoration work, they don't control spills, they don't control pollution, and in the end it's the public sector, with public money, who has to do these performances, and that's an inescapable part of the mining business, of companies like those that want to be implemented in Touro. It wouldn't be business if you had to assume the obligations, both environmental control and restoration, and that's why these companies are systematically prepared not to do so. This is the Ombudsman's report, which tells us, of course, that situation of relevance of the Galician Union to these companies, as did the Prosecutor's Office. There is also a task of obstruction by your counsellor, Counsellor. An obstruction work that is also translated into judgments such as the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in November 2017, where it condemns the Galician Union to offer the information that has been denied to the people of Corcoesto since 2012. They've been fighting for five years to access the information. Among other things, they wanted to have access to a report on the dangerousness of mineral waste rafts, Counsellor. How do you value this performance of your counseling? You don't think your advice, in the face of the demand for information, and your defense of sustainable and responsible mining, etc., shouldn't you be the first interested in teaching all the information to these people who ask for it? I suppose you'll recognize that a person who lives in Corcoesto, who was meant to install an 80-metre-high waste raft, is worried and worried about knowing that information. Well, these people went over and over again to the dependencies of their counsellor trying to get this information. They were denied, and forced to go to the High Court of Justice in Galicia to get it, and you were convicted. I think they should at least apologize and make amends, as they are doing now, in a situation where the UN admits a complaint about the impeding of the Board to access to information from mining projects. Do you think these people go to all these places, to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, to the UN, etc., for sport? Do you think if you gave the information you have the right to, would you do all this sort of thing? Or, for example, with Monte Neme, Counselor. "Warning Galicia for toxic waters in the ferries of the old mine." Similarly, denial of information, environmental damage and, even above, the company's feet in dust and the money from the restoration will be borne by the public money of the Galician Union. The little thing that's done, we've already done it with public money. For all this, Counsellor, do you think you're meeting -- and therefore you can discuss with the Ombudsman -- with his obligation to defend the environment in mining? Why have neither you nor the Environment Council ever acted against the greenery in San Fins mine streams denounced by the prosecutor's office? Why have they never initiated sanctioning files against the vegetables in Touro, which leave the streams like this, with that color, the same color that left the rivers of the mines of San Fins, Santa Comba, Monte Neme? It's the fundamental feature of acid drainage, which also causes suspension of toxic metals. Counselor, of all this that happens, of this plot, of this modus operandi that you have, who is responsible? You? Or is it Mr. Tahoces and you look the other way? Don't you think this should change? Don't you think these facts are serious enough to make excuses and make amends? You were saying the other day -- and I'm done -- that we're making a whole amendment to mining. If you denounce these issues and want any activity to be carried out with regard to the environment, and if the Galician Union meets the criteria of transparency and environmental protection, it is to go against its mining model, then we do. If you're telling me that simply claiming that you comply with the law and are obliged to make the necessary environmental controls, and that you force companies to perform their necessary restoration work, it's going against their mining model, of course we're against that mining model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u264	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, first of all, I would like to thank you for bringing this debate back to the House, which therefore gives me the opportunity to respond to your statements. I know you don't really care. I know perfectly well that In Marea is trapped in time and that they continually repeat undisclosed information, but I think, of course, if it's an opportunity to transfer a message of confidence to the sector and to the Greeks and the Greeks, because that message of confidence in the sector seems particularly relevant to us. Every question of yours I understand that it is always a good opportunity to make it clear that this Government, Mr. Sánchez, first of all, defends the general interest; that it has one respect for the institutions; and, above all, that it also abides by the laws, an aspect which you at times seem obvious. In any case, he is already aware that the Galician Union has no convolence, does not participate in any kind of plot, and I would like that reference to his intervention to be withdrawn. In any case, the Galician Union is acting with responsibility and professionalism. Today he tries again to confuse, and he tries again to confuse, above all, because he intends to transfer an interested view on the same cases as he mentioned the whole past. So, if you think it's appropriate, today I'm going to take the opportunity to ask you, because as it seems clear that in the interpellation to the Government the explanations were not clear enough, we're going to change the approach and then I'm going to ask you, and so on and off, we can figure out what the real situation of all the cases you're proposing is. Look, Mr. Sánchez, the space of Miramontes, in Santiago, to which you also refer, you know it hasn't been a mining activity for over a decade. He knows perfectly well that it is a dump of non-hazardous waste and that has, since 2008, with an integrated environmental authorisation granted by the Bipartite, of course, because you curiously granted authorizations, if granted research permits etc. And you know, on the other hand, that there's a technosol development company that has been licensed since 2015. In both cases -- because he's talking about controls -- the Environment Council carries out periodic inspections and meets the demands of the neighborhood, and they actually required the company to act to reduce the smells, and they beat him -- Mr. Sánchez -- two sanctioning files. You all know, and that's why I have the doubt why he keeps on with his story and, above all, why he's omitting these details. Of course, the Government will continue to act with transparency. With regard to the slate mining in Valdeorras, you come here to speak of a report by the Ombudsman, but you forget that the report had already been answered by the Administration. And you know that this board has taken over the restoration plans to minimize the effects on the environment, and you know that we are acting and that we are adapting the accounts of the financial guarantees made up, and you also know that the Ombudsman himself thanked the collaboration given by the Galician Council and that the suggestions he has made were accepted. You can see it on the website, and what I'm asking and moving it is why -- knowing that I told you that last week -- it hides. The Government, Mr. Sánchez, will continue to work with the institutions. Tell me about the United Nations. I ask you why you intend to present the acceptance of a petition as if it were a sentence, which is quite common in your parliamentary group. The Union, of course, respects the request for information enormously and knows that in this case we have five months to make allegations. And I've already told you -- and I told you last week -- to make all the documentation of the files available to green entities. Since you're talking about sport, what I ask you, to exchange with you what your opinion is, is, what do you think these associations, these entities that ask for information, have not yet presented themselves at the Galician Council to consult that information? That's the question. Therefore, Mr. Sánchez, I do not understand what your motivation is, whether transparency or continuing with the account against mining. I'm ahead of you that the Government is, logically, with transparency. With regard to Galicia's High Court of Justice ruling on access to Corcoesto's file, you forget, once again -- because in all its intervention there is a permanent omission of a part of reality -- which was presented -- curiously, Mr. Sánchez, perhaps you don't know the data, but I transfer it -- this resource a year after denying the project. You probably didn't know, but if you had checked the dates, you'd probably have that data. And it is therefore surprising that, in some way, you come here to consider with the reading of that sentence which, in fact, the Council of Galicia does not always try to act in accordance with the rule. I'm already telling you that I don't really know what you're interested in, whether a real participation in a debate or just come here to make noise. We, logically, will always come with transparency and to transfer all the information. In this sense, and speaking of the San Fins mines, you know, too, that Galician Waters conducted inspections and samples in the area, and you know, in addition, that the entire discharge permit is being studied by the company. Because you know, and you know, that we have paralyzed the work of San Fins mines; therefore, once again, Your Honor, surprises your position. I with respect to the writing of the prosecutor's office what I can tell you is what you already know, because you know of mining. The point is, when he goes up and intervenes in Parliament, he just counts one side, the other side doesn't. But you know that in these cases there is no need for an environmental assessment impact study, simply because San Fins mines are not a new project; therefore there is no requirement for environmental impact assessment. So what I'm transferring to you and what I'm asking you is why you don't decide to wait for the judge to decide, why you're always presuming. We, logically, will continue to work and collaborate with justice and await, logically, the resolution. And he tells me about Monte Neme, where, indeed, we have done jobs to improve security, and today he knows -- because he knows -- that restoration facilities are mandatory, so that situation we hope that -- of course, and unlike the past -- will be very difficult to repeat. But let's talk about the law of business implementation, because it's the current regulation. And you know -- and forget -- that in the Business Implementation Act guarantees were required depending on the investment budget, when a much more limited concept was used than funding. Do you agree with this criterion, which is much more demanding from the point of view of the supply of a mining project? Of course, this government is with that criterion applied and set out in the Enterprise Implementation Act. You're telling me about Touro, you know that Galician Waters have opened files for the flood overflows; you know, perfectly well, that the Marine Research Institute, the CSIC, is going to study the mining influence on the Ulla River; you know that in the polls in the area, which have been carried out for the last thirty years, there is no kind of aquifer condition. Mr. Sánchez, where's the problem? You don't trust Galician waters? You don't trust CSIC? You don't trust the University of Santiago de Compostela? Mr. Sánchez, this government trusts, logically, the administration and trusts the CSIC. In any case, Your Honor, I believe that we are again before a partial account and I can simply transfer to you that this government will continue to act in accordance with legality, that it will continue to act in accordance with the general interest of the Greeks and that it will continue to act in defence of a sector, such as the mining sector, which creates wealth, which creates jobs. And, of course, this government will continue to act on those criteria, defending responsible mining, sustainable mining and modern mining. Because, indeed, in that ear is where we are working. You keep working, unfortunately, trying to transfer here a mistrust and trying to move here a situation where you want to move a part of reality and not -- in no case -- trying to make an assessment and follow-up of what it brings to mining and exploiting the indigenous resources that generate wealth here in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u266	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u267	Counsellor, don't you trust the Prosecutor's Office, do you not trust the Ombudsman, do you not trust that it is true what they have written in his documents? In other words, he says to the Prosecutor's Office: "For decades there have been spills of contaminants to the streams around San Fins and there is no sanction file open to the company." Do you know when the sanctioning file was opened, Counsellor? When these people, who are so critical of you, an activist from an environmental group, went to pick up samples, so the company denounced her and had to go to trial. But those samples were the ones that triggered the investigation that concluded in the prosecution's complaint, Counsellor. It wasn't the performance of his counsellor or the Environmental Council, it was those people who played the guy to go and pick up the samples that he told the truth, Mr. Counsellor. That's the reality. The reality is that the prosecutor's office is saying that for decades there have been acidic drainages that cause the acidification of water and, therefore, the suspension of toxic metals in the streams that go to the creek of Noia, Counsellor, and not a sanctioning file! And you just recognized that Touro is the same. You came here to assume that a file was opened to you following the overcrowdings, when, three or four months ago, did you, Counselor? But it's been polluted there since 1988 all of a sudden. So there are the streams, Mr. Counsellor, after there were those acid drainages in the mine. Counselor, look at this picture, do you know her, do you know her, Counselor? He doesn't want to look, it's obvious that he doesn't like anything. Look, Counselor, you're not a record against these proceedings, no records. Do you know what that means, Counselor? It means that when you talk about creating wealth, you have to tell people that it's what you're talking about creating wealth. Because if the creation of wealth for a few means that others have to pay their losses, that wealth is not to defend the general interest, Counselor. That wealth is wealth for a few and the mortgage stays with the others, you understand, Counselor? As you will stay in Monte Neme, where that milk company that is in the plot of Gürtel, of a brother from Cotino, or of the PP of Valencia has left without trace possible to fulfill their responsibilities. You have just recognized here that for decades the Galician Union has not opened any files to Touro's mining company, which had the obligation to control those spills, which had the obligation to restore, which did nothing. And they're still working there. What else do you say? Grixoa, who gave you environmental permission from the Bipartite. Yes, from there, do you know how many more authorizations have been given in that space, Counselor? -- that we don't suck our fingers, right? Because the technosols, the management of many more kinds of waste, they gave it to you. And you renewed the same environmental authorization that Bipartite gave them, didn't you? They might say no, but you've renewed it, so don't come here and put your backpack behind you, too. Then you talked, too, of compliance with laws, that you comply with the laws. No, Counselor, the Ombudsman says you don't comply with the law or enforce it. That's what they're telling the Prosecutor and the Ombudsman, and that's what they're telling us. Because if you had served the law the companies in San Fins, Santa Comba, Monte Neme, etc., would be full of sanctioning files. As it's full of sanctioning files, any neighbor or neighbor who throws any spill into the environment. Hundreds, Counselor, have the common people, but these companies have been polluting for decades and you haven't opened them one, not one! Then he talks about confidence, that we have confidence in the system. With these background, are we going to have confidence, Counselor? And with the company that intends to settle in Touro and its background, does it mean that we have confidence? Atalaya Mining and its leaders, with their past in Andalusia, with their past in Africa? But you say we're trapped in time, it must be very modern Katanga, I said here Katanga and they put their hands on the head, and it turns out that the project manager who comes now, Mr. Lavandeira, has been working in the Congo, in Katanga, years on farms that were compared to Guantánamo. Of course, here you won't be able to do the same, no, here you won't be able to do the same; it's true, we're not Katanga, but it's the same companies. By the way, the Andalusian Board, so criticized by you, does open files against what they do in Riotinto, and they do have convictions for four serious errors. You tell me you're guilty of serious misconduct for having companies in Touro, in San Fins... you tell me, give me some kind of result. And you say that the UN means that people who want access to information about mining, and the risks of these enormous rafts that you intend to allow to install, have to wait six months for them to decide. You're going to force them to wait for them to decide?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u268	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u269	Just as he forced him to wait for the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which had to appeal and win the judgment. That you should be ashamed that some of the citizens of Galicia must appeal to the High Court of Justice of Galicia to access a report on the risk of mud rafts, Counsellor. What a shame this is! You want to get past points on this, and what happens if you've been denied it before? Don't they have the same right to information?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u270	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u271	Or have they also decreed, before they asked for information, to expire?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u273	Or was there no risk that this project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u274	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u275	... - I'm done, Mr. President -...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u277	...will reopen? What contraindications did these people have to access that information? No, what is there is a systematic concealment of reality because if people knew reality they couldn't do this kind of business...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u278	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u279	They live from the grants received and outsource environmental liabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u280	Thank you. We greet the students and students of UNED in Ourense, in this case senior students who visit us today. Welcome to Parliament. Replica. Closure of this plea, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u281	Yes, Mr. Sánchez, you remain trapped in time, unfortunately, because once again I give you explanations on a case-by-case basis, I argue perfectly from a legal point of view and from an administrative point of view the situation of each of the cases you pose and you fall into the same generalities, trying to divert attention and what is happening here in Galicia. But I am sorry that you do not really want to develop a serious debate and a rigorous debate on the mining situation in Galicia. We are talking about wealth, because you are, in fact, committed to permanently prejudging the situations of the different economic sectors and you are prejudiced against mining; that is, you come to see here full after full. But that same prejudice against mining also has it against other economic activities in Galicia, because I would like you to explain why you are also against the Greek thermal plants, why you are against the development of the wind sector, why you are against Reganosa, why you want to close Ence, why you want to close Elnosa... It is very difficult to explain, and it is very difficult to establish a debate on wealth, job creation, growth and, above all, how Galicia can take advantage of its native resources. When you want to talk about exploitation and, logically, the use of these indigenous resources, you always say no, always. I don't know what it is, Mr. Sánchez, if this is your position, I don't know if it's Mr. Casal's position, neither do I know if it's Anova's position, it might be Podemos' position, even from Left Unity, but what is clear is that it's very difficult to believe in the different arguments that you move here in this intervention. [[Applause]] In any case, when they ruled in Galicia, they ruled with other acronyms, that's true, and with those other abbreviations you approved 100 research permits and approved 43 operating permits. And now they're against everyone, everyone. Curious, Mr. Sánchez! Curious! But you talk to me about your intervention in Valencia. Well, let's talk about Valencia. He spoke of Valencia. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And you, curiously, in Valencia... If you want, we'll talk about Aragon. I'm going to talk about Valencia and Aragon so that it doesn't cause any trouble to the Autonomous Community of Valencia. Look, why are these two communities pushing mining? Do we want to explain? Why is the General Deputy of Aragon analyzing dozens of new mining projects that could be opened in Aragon? Why does the Economic Adviser of the Valencian Community undertake to draw up a mining law guaranteeing the development of the mining sector in Valencia? Do you want to explain what is the problem of En Marea with the generation of wealth in the mining sector in Galicia? What's the position that leads to you wanting wealth to be generated in Valencia and Aragon and you don't want wealth to be generated in Galicia? I, Mr. Sánchez, can't understand. In any case, logically, we will continue to talk and discuss the future, talking about confidence in the sector. Know that in Galicia -- which I think is important -- we have 250 mining farms, and 95 percent are ornamental rocks and quarry products. You know that every year, from the point of view of control, hundreds of mining inspections are carried out permanently. And you know, of course, that we're going to continue applying the Business Implementation Act to give a new boost to the sector. I, Mr. Sánchez, would only like to thank you for changing your account, because the Welsh administration has magnificent professionals, it has magnificent public professionals who work permanently to comply with the Mining Management Act, which you have approved. We will continue to defend a sustainable use of mineral resources and, of course, we will continue to defend the general interest of the Greeks and we will continue, Mr Sánchez, ensuring compliance with the law, because this government, Mr Sánchez, always acts according to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u282	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the German Government on improving public employment and working conditions in the self-employed public sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u283	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u284	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, and say hello to ourense senior university. I would like to thank you, Mr Fender, for your presence to address this question, because, almost in a preliminary way, I believe that the Members and the Members we are now attending to the questions to the President are a little surprised, at least. As my colleague Abel Losada said, we always seem to have something to learn, because, like the socierge of Fairy, we would need to be told in this House whether the criteria for really validating what budget executions consist of are no longer the recognized obligations, but the commitments of expenditure, as you have stated this morning -- I think torturingly -- the President of the Board. So, in that sense, even if there is a deadline for us to explain whether we have a new public accounting plan in Galicia or whether we have to meet other budgetary management rules, because those we had to deal with situations of public management have always been monitored by the ORs and not by the DRs, speaking in more accounting terminology. That's why I think it's important that you show up today to, if necessary, even deny the president of the board. And in that sense, when we talk about public accounts, because we're talking about public accounts, we're talking about welfare, and if we're talking about welfare, we're talking about public services, and we're therefore talking about public employment. That is why I believe that we are following a logical sequence of those initiatives that, by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, we have presented in this House, especially in the context of the various budgetary debates, both in the 2017 exercise and in that 2018 exercise. As you well know, Mr Counsellor, in the interpellation that I did to you precisely in the middle of the 19th of December on occasion or in parallel with the budget debate for 2018, we questioned precisely the reasons why this new macroeconomic scenario was followed by Law 1/2012, that call for temporary measures in certain areas of public employment, and then I say that because they were temporary measures that are going to be experienced in time and that seem to be structural. And in this interpellation, Counsellor, as you know, we reminded you that that law was obviously penalizing all situations of temporary disability, as practically all social action funds were suppressed, as rights to the extension of residence in the active service situation were restricted -- which so many problems are causing, and we also told you in a special way in the field of health -- or how they were suspended by that law, unilaterally, very important rights of the V collective self-employed. And we reiterated and reminded him, despite the fact that since his parliamentary group uses evaluative arguments in this regard, as the Government of Greece had been precisely during the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 the autonomous government that had most reduced wages, the salaries of public employees from all over the state. In this interpellation, as we have many times, we have explained that this obviously responds to structured policies to weaken the public sector, to structured policies to reduce the size of the welfare state and, therefore, to reduce the capacity to redistribute income in our country, at a time when the economic growth data appear to be positive in that context and where there must begin to apply intense processes of redistribution of wealth. Finally, we told him that really this whole set of measures were the only thing they were achieving was to break the social contract that both in Europe and in our country, and therefore also in Galicia -- with more intensity on many issues than in other areas of the State -- in order to match the public accounts demanded by Brussels, it was being applied. And we reminded you, Counselor, like the economic, macroeconomic parameters that have been in force since 2012 have expired. We reminded you of how the behaviour of Galicia's real gross domestic product or how the primary savings were resulting in positive data from the last three or four exercises and therefore we called for precisely the derogation of this Law 1/2012, which was the derogation that really broke with everything that is collective bargaining in the field of self-employed public employees. In that sense, Counsellor, in his response to that question, as a literal figure in the Journal of Sessions, said to us: "We really believe me, we have a goal, which is to greatly appreciate what our public employees do in different fields of activity, both in those who are essential services, and in those who are not so much; it is questionable to value that public services in Galicia are not essential today. And we will continue to work with the social dialogue of all time. This is what we were told about our interpellation at that time in the middle of December 2017. Obviously, as a result of this inquiry, we presented a corresponding motion in the plenary of January 23rd last, to substantiate the terms of this interpellation, and in that motion, Mr Martínez, we reminded you or requested the support of this House for a number of issues that come perfectly to the collation of what is the meaning of the interpellation that we bring again today. In that motion, we asked this House -- a motion that was evidently completely discarded by the Group of the People's Party that supports the Government -- to start a meeting to establish a multi-year calendar 2018-2020 of the General Public Employees' Table and the entire public employment supply work programme, not only to recover lost replacement rates, but to create net employment. Secondly, to establish a calendar and, finally, not only to remain in the role of temporal employment consolidation processes, the functionalization processes that already come from the 2017 Measurement Act and the internal promotion processes. We also asked you in that motion to carry out the necessary changes on the different scales of autonomic public officials in matters of safety and health, in matters of clinic assistants and in matters of forest fire brigades, which, by the way, is being mounted within these brigades! Now with the data we have from the Environmental Council or the Rural Council, we're trying to get you ahead of the scale of environmental monitors or forest agents. But well, there's the situation they're looking at. We also asked him to proceed with the creation, at the negotiating table, of a special fund precisely for the progressive recovery of all the salaries lost by self-employed public employees from 2013 to 2016, which amount to an average loss of 14%, beyond the reductions of public employees in the state as a whole. Of course, we asked him, of course, to waive the symbol of the cuts in self-employment, which is Law 1/2012, at the different points -- and we are not going to debate which are the ones (...) because we have already discussed them at that time -- and, of course, this motion has been rejected. [[Intelligible.]] But it turns out that last March 9 Montoro's own minister signed with the trade union organizations of Workers' Committees, UXT and CISF a new agreement for the improvement of public employment and working conditions after expressing -- literally the meaning of the agreement -- that the improvement of the budgetary economic situation and the recognition of the contribution that employees are supposed to have to work and employed in the service of public administrations to achieve this situation leads to a scenario in which this new global and multi-annual agreement is structured. This agreement obviously collects -- as it is well known -- a number of pay points for the period 2018, 2019 and 2020 that will have to be reflected in the state budgets, gather new opportunities for public employment supply -- even with the possibility of reaching 108 % in certain situations --. But it picks up a whole range of aspects of public employment stabilization, working days, conciliation and equality plans that remain precisely the negotiating power of each of the public administrations; and therefore also remains the negotiating power of the Galician Union, not only for the general administration but for the entire autonomous public sector. In this sense, even the partial recovery for the period 2018-2019 provides for the possibility that the Autonomous Community will establish a number of additional funds which may amount to an additional 0,75 % to the amount of the budgetary measures. And, in that sense, even the report that this House has just received from the people's Valedor institution -- in this case from the people's Valedora -- tells us how, in terms of public employment -- and I literally read -- "as far as it refers to the working conditions of the workers who serve in the public sector, from this institution, from the people's Valedor, we consider it essential to perform a good collective bargaining management that allows them to combine efforts and respect rights such as career or employment and family reconciliation." That is why, Counsellor, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we ask you whether, in view of the terms of the agreement signed by the Minister for Montoro and the trade union organisations, the German Government has planned, or if it has already begun, the necessary negotiations to develop the sections reflected in that agreement and restore the labour rights of self-employed public employees. Nothing else and thank you. I look forward to your positive answers in this regard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u285	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're asking me a lot of things. But taking advantage of the fact that yesterday was St. George's day, let me talk about my book, which in essence was the one he devoted the minute and a half of his inquiry. Of course, I will not escape some of the issues you have said here, but allow me, in principle, to abide by the Second Agreement for the Improvement of Public Employment and the Conditions of Work, which was signed in March, March 26, and the effects it has. Six are the main issues. The first refers to the pay increment -- some pass reference did you --. In this salary increase, for the next three years, we're talking about 8.79%. It's very important that it's three-year-old, because stability is coming. And if it's achieved with a vast union backing, it's also very important. The link between the payroll and the IPC and the other variables, with a fixed of 1.5 % -- plus it's linked to economic growth -- and an additional related to budgetary discipline and the solvency of public administrations, of all. We, as an autonomous community, also look for it. Ladies and gentlemen, if the unions mostly signed this regardless of their ideology, they understood that it is better to link wage growth to economic growth. In this way, we clearly transfer the effects of general economic recovery to public workers. This agreement -- as you too must know -- must be enabled through article 18 of the draft budget law. I'll talk to him in a moment. You're asking me about the forecast of the German Government to make this agreement effective. I'll give you two good news. The first is that Galicia met all the variables of budgetary discipline and solvency. As you know, it's the deficit, the debt and the spending rule. This good news can only be given in Galicia and in five more communities. In eleven, neither in the state nor in the state. And you know this also has to do with the pay issue we just commented on a moment ago. And the second good news we can give is that in Galicia we did it right. It's also strange that you didn't make the reference, which referred to the month of December, when we were talking about budgets and then you had to hear from these banks certain criticisms to the 80 million euros that we have considered in the 2018 budget to deal with this whole increase, the 2%, that was the payroll and what we paid for chapter IV, also in other jobs that are correlated with public employment. We got it. Then we had to hear what we had to hear in this Parliament as well. In this way, we will not have to withdraw resources to finance these wage increases. Other communities, well known to you, will have to withdraw resources from other parties in order to be able to fund this from what is being said. So, I think in Galicia we have the duty to do because we've done better fiscal consolidation and we've done better this budget forecast. What's missing? As soon as possible, the general government budgets are approved. The Socialist Group seems to not want to be approved, item number one. The second measure has to do with public job offers, which you also referred to. Government and trade unions have proposed expanding the measures, and, above all, for what is right for us right now, there is a 100 percent replenishment rate in all sectors for communities that, like ours, have met the targets of deficit, debt and expenditure rule, as well as an additional 8% stock exchange. So in Galicia we have already wagered last year for employment stability, as you well know, by agreeing, with the three of the four general bureau unions and with three of the most important in each sectoral table, about the consolidation process. We're talking about 14,750 squares, of which we have already convened 6,000 today, and 4,000 are about to be celebrated. Offered, 6,000; summoned, already 4,000 to this day. It's 14.750. As far as employment is concerned, I think that we can ask this Autonomous Community of Galicia very little, because, as you well know, the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the best result in terms of temporality. The third part of this agreement refers to working time. Administration and trade unions agreed that the ordinary day of common size for all public administrations is calculated on an annual basis, and the average weekly average is 37 hours and a half. I think that's the one we've set in Galicia. It is also collected that each administration, after collective bargaining, may establish other ordinary work days, as long as the goals of solvency are met. We can't all be talking about it, so. And this measure will also be effective through an additional provision of the draft budget law. We'll talk again about the budget law. In the civil service in Galicia, depending on its performance, we already have today, as you well know, in very sensitive sectors the schedules adapted to the functional field, so much, a large part, of the public employees on turns have a working day that is identical, practically, to the 35-hour annually effective day. Fourthly, there's the review of what we're talking about on temporary disability. At this point, the Government and the unions agreed that each public administration can determine, also after collective bargaining, the wages it will pay to its staff in situations of temporary disability. In this case, the often cited bill, in its additional provision tenth fifth, allows the possibility of reaching a hundred percent. Do you understand why we needed legal qualifications? And yet I was remembering what was spoken last December. There's something wrong with it. Fifthly, equality and conciliation measures. If for anything this Government is distinguished, it is through equality and conciliation measures. The Autonomous Community of Galicia, at the moment, is the one which has better results in terms of the rights of all autonomous communities. Just as an example, about the current situation there is very little... we know that we have the forecast to extend to twenty-four weeks the maternity and seven the paternity, in addition to the two before the birth. [[Applause]] I don't know how many autonomous communities have this. Sixthly, in the second agreement signed at the end of March, a lot of measures are developed that are indistinguishable to the capacity of the central government, such as the establishment of the follow-up commission, the prospect of the needs and training initiatives of public employees and the conditions that affect the part-retirement. These three, therefore, have to be made effective by the state and I think we have to say very little about them. In short, of the six points we were talking about, three need it to be the State Administration, the latter, who is the pilot. And of the other three we're waiting for one thing: the approval of the state's general budgets to make them effective as soon as possible. How are we going to make them effective? There are two ways to do this: one, in an uncoordinated way, each community or public administration pulling at their side; or making them effective in a coordinated way. So, as you should know, there was a meeting between all the autonomous communities and the State Administration in the General Secretariat of Public Service on April 9, where autonomous communities -- for example, not only Andalusia, but also about Cantabria -- were the first to demand that all public administrations act in a coordinated manner. It's odd you don't talk to public administrations, but it's also weird to say you don't talk to your friends in Andalusia. But it's also strange, because the next day the director general of Public Service, at the meeting with the unions, explained to them the meaning of the meeting and how there would be a next meeting in mid-May. It's weird that you don't talk to the unions either. We did, as we just commented. I am therefore surprised at your speech. In any case, and despite the irresponsibility which, from my point of view, manifests the PSOE not approving the budgets, I think we should move forward, but in an orderly and coordinated way. For what? We're talking about at least 102,000 or 105,000 people who directly perceive their income from the board budget. I think they well deserve an effort by both parties to ensure that wage measures and other measures to improve performance are increasingly real -- and once, as we did, by the way, immediately in 2017, when we had the famous 1 % --. That's our intention, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u287	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Díaz Villoslada's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u288	Thank you, President. Yes, Counselor, remembering onomastics, for today, precisely, April 25, is the Portuguese revolution of the caravans. And then what we ask you to do is to be minimally revolutionary to resume the ordinary processes of collective bargaining, nothing more. With that, and with applying the parts of the March 9 agreement, of autonomous competition, because it will have an important challenge to recover cuts and cut rights from -- as we always say, because it's the data -- more than 86,000 autonomic public employees. [[Applause]] And I really don't know today if it's a day of homonomistics, but to tell us about other autonomous communities, when we've just come here to talk about the situation in Galicia, because it's not for you, for the People's Party, the easiest day, when we finally attend that a president of a community like Madrid has to present the resignation once after he destroys or tries to destroy the university system and also deceive consumers. So, to teach lessons by resorting precisely to other autonomous communities, I don't think it's the most loyal thing to this House or to self-employed public employees. By the way, we talk to trade union organizations, but who has to negotiate with trade union organizations is precisely the government, not us in the opposition, and in that sense they always talk to us. This morning we attended -- or attended -- the debate on the total amendments to the 2018 State Budgets and they already have virtually partners. A nationalist party, the PNV, which for the People's Party is like lying the devil; and on the part of Citizens I don't know if they'll be facing the embrace of the bear. But if they already have partners, I don't know why they have to claim other parliamentary support to get ahead of 2018 accounts. But it's just that the Socialist Party doesn't support the 2018 accounts, and he knows why. Because if national income is growing by 4,2 %, social expenditure in budgets is going to be 2,8 %. The Socialist Party does not approve the 2018 accounts because you are trying to reduce the state to 38% they are creating the society of 38% public expenditure on gross domestic product. [[Applause]] And in that sense, the macroeconomic forecasts sent even to the Community bodies are trying to put Spain in line with all the countries of the European Union for public expenditure on gross domestic product. Yes, Counselor, because if we're currently at 42 percent, the forecast for 2018 is to put us at 40 percent, to reach that 38%, which is the only income forecast. So the government budgets of the PP are trying to reduce the size of the welfare state to put us in line with the European Union, and we are not socialists. That is why it is easy to understand how politically the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Galician Socialist Party in this House do not defend and will not defend the accounts that are being presented to the state as a whole. In any case, as I tell you, they have enough partners to carry forward the budgets, with which there is no more remedy than applying -- I suppose they will apply -- the agreements signed on 9 March. I just wanted to read it to you -- because you've read it, of course -- that this agreement that you're trying to sweeten or just say in this House that it's practically fulfilled in Galicia, it's not, because literally this agreement marks as all aspects of the daytime, absenteeism, disability and conciliation are subjects that "power" -- it's a faculty, not an obligation -- to be the object of negotiation in the respective areas of each of the autonomous public sectors. And we didn't forget some of the data we gave them in other sessions. The timing in Galicia remains 14 % in public employment, but in health it is above 20 %. Galicia -- she knows it well -- was between 2010 and 2015 the autonomous community in fifth place in public employment destruction, and the transvasion of employment between the public and private sectors in the field of education and health denotes precisely how the change of society model is. We said and continued to insist: 33,000 non-university teachers, 34,000 Sergas health workers, 15,000 general government employees, 5,000 teachers and researchers from the Greek university system and 2,500 justice workers are waiting to recover these labor rights. By the way, they don't start a process of collective bargaining with trade union organizations if the counter, the forms and the negotiating strategies are the ones they're carrying out with the administration of justice staff; it's not the way to reach agreements. When you sit on a negotiating table, even if you're in a strike conflict, you don't usually get up until you reach an agreement, if you intend to reach an agreement. That's what I have to say to you, Counsellor: put the batteries in that direction, sit down with the unions and start developing those aspects of the March 9 agreement signed by the majority trade union organizations in Spain, which in Galicia are precisely still pending recovery. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u289	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Close this interrogation, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u290	Thank you again, Mr. President. A little bit was derived from my first words. Since the Galician Union, what we're looking for is to have enough skills to, once again, continue to negotiate with the unions, as we have seen, by the way, in a very accelerated way since 2015, to reach the agreements. I think that because we made a proper fiscal consolidation on the part of autonomy, the results are there, like very few. And based on experience and negotiator character. Do not confuse the negotiating character, as in the last intervention. I suppose it's a shame there's no people upstairs to get along with them. Negotiating means that we have two parts of the table equal to legitimized, doesn't mean that we have to be up to the day of the final trial in the afternoon and postures pulled ad infinitum. I think it's very healthy to negotiate with everyone, with a lot of strength, but there are certain levels that we must never overcome. This Union, within its competences, has been manifesting it over the last few years, because it has been a great deal of the agreements we have reached in recent years. And I think it's good that, first of all, we take into account those 105,000 people who directly, from when they approve budgets, can enjoy as much before this situation, which means that at least this year they will grow by 1.75%, and can even rise by 0.3% more because of this solvency that the autonomous community has. That's what I was telling you earlier, I think I remember it was 2.05 percent, and we made a forecast of 2 percent so criticized. But we're talking about 8.79% in all three years, which in the case of Galicia is 8.89%. Why don't we value all that? Why don't we put on value and keep talking about IT when we have sufficient legal qualifications? Why don't we keep talking about the daytime too? Of course we will, that we will continue to talk about the subject of the day, how can it be no other way! But in a noble, free way, put on top and always according to the unions. Because, as I told you before, Junta has a procedure. In the end, what we're always betting on is stability and quality in public employment. It can't be any other way! I repeat, the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the autonomous community with better results. And the 14,750 squares that we've given ourselves are marked by soil today, because we're talking about 100 percent replenishment rates in general and 8 percent additionally, for that solvency that demonstrates the Autonomous Community of Galicia. That's why it's so compelling to believe sometimes, to act and take action in relation to the message we intend to send out to our stakeholders. So it must be emphasized that the strategy followed by this Board was that in the time of weak cows there had to be very important measures, some of them marked by you, but they had a temporary character. Every one of them on the pay issue has been over two years. That's what we told them. As this autonomous community was the first to apply, and end what? The reform, as you know, had to be adopted by the Central Government when the freezing of the extra famous arrived; it seems to me to remember that it was in 2011 or 2012. That's what we're talking about, and there are autonomous communities that haven't finished paying for that recovery, and we're done in 2016. It's good to accompany things, not to refuse to talk, but also to know that there are limits. We cancel those matters. We kept -- not as you said --. The Autonomous Community of Galicia, in terms of troops, is the most stable community keeping the troops; from 2009 to the latest newsletters published by the Ministry of Business. I do look at them month by month, and I do see that we have 300 more people than we had to compare in 2012, which was the year of the great crisis. And I know that every year we're spending 300 million euros more on public employees. Welcome, because we can at the moment. So let's put all this in value, while at the same time the great effort of updating and modernising that we are doing in the area of conciliation, telework, in the field of partial retirement, in the field of forest brigades and environmental agents, which has also reached agreements with trade union organizations. With regard to the Social Services Consortium, where a government such as the Bipartite was able to reach and have people in public employment with 30% of wages under a same category in the Galician Union, and that's what this government is putting them equal to the rest of the public employees. That's talking to the unions, and that's putting on value. [[Applause]] And by the way, Your Honor, the most important thing is that within our competences we will always bet on negotiation. And even in my way of speaking if I notice that we are serious negotiators, recognizing that others also have a lot of intelligence and a lot of reason sometimes, but what can't be this about being. No, they'll never meet us here. And as far as the Union is concerned, of the various measures they have included, let's not be mistaken, we will be of the first autonomous communities to directly implement those that have to do with the pay issue. And the rest of them don't worry, in a coordinated manner with the rest of the public administrations, we'll always pull forward. I think we have a lot more in common, and that's why there are these meetings that we've given each other, say Cantabria, say Andalusia, the ones that most asked for this coordination. I insist, these 105,000 beneficiaries are waiting for us. We have a lot to do. As we also have a lot to do about temporality, even though our results are the best we've ever had. I think that the Greek society -- and in this case the public employees -- on demand after the effort made, and so we're going to continue, have no doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u291	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in the area of prevention of school dropout
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u292	Mr. Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I wanted to move or apologize to your lordships because I made a lamentable mistake, fruit, no doubt, of my nearly advanced age, when in my early morning intervention, in my foreword to non-law failure, I said ointments when I wanted to say creams. Obviously, I apologize to everyone... [[Applause]] Mr. Consecutor of Fairy, because I'm worth it! Since we're drug addicts, uh, we're serious negotiators because I'm worth it! Because I say so! Well, finally. Let's get to the point. Mr. Tellado, for you too, for you too. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u294	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u295	Go away... I'm talking!Oh, my God! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you understand?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u296	It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u297	Do you understand?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u298	Mr. Álvarez, calm down. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u299	I apologize.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u300	Take it easy. Take it easy, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u301	I wanted to show that teachers can also lose their composition, nothing more!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u302	It's okay, it's okay. Quiet. Quiet, please! Silence! We need to protect who is in the use of the word, that's also the function... No, I'm sorry, that's also the role of a president. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u303	Luckily.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u304	That can happen to us all. So, please, let's behave.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u305	I mean, Mr. Tellado, paraphrasing Cicero: "How long will you abuse, Catilina, our patience?" Because look, it turns out that you were tired yesterday of missing out on all the opposition groups: Socialist Party, Nationalist Block and In Marea, because they were undocumented talking about pensions, they broke the state, and it turns out that today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u306	Mr. Álvarez, please go to school dropout.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u307	It has to do with budgeting and budget planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u308	We'll finish up in the afternoon. Go to school dropout, which is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u309	It turns out today that the sustainability factor is no longer to be applied in 2019, it reaches 2023. Pensions don't have to go up any more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u310	Quiet. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u311	Right, right, obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u312	They don't enter dialogue. Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u313	Obviously, agreed. Agreed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u314	To drop out of school. Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u315	Whichever way, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u316	Quiet. To drop out of school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u317	Let's drop out of school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u318	To drop out of school, which is a very serious matter. Quiet. [[Interruptions.]] Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Silence, Mr. Tellado! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please, shut up, everyone! Quiet, please, you too?Oh, my God! I'll suspend the full. [[Interruptions.]] Please. Please! I'm suspending it, I don't have a problem! [[Interruptions.]] We're going to behave, please, on both sides. That's good! This image does not favor Parliament at all. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Álvarez, please, to drop out of school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u319	The 423B programme, which, as we know, refers to the prevention of school dropout, focuses on the need for us to share to increase the number of graduates in vocational training and post-war training in general, with the objective of, of course, having a more and better degree of citizenship. There are nine strategic events that the memory of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order itself envisages to achieve these objectives. In other words, to encourage the participation of educational centres in the call for programme contracts -- on which we cannot extend, of course -- ; to promote actions in the field of educational guidance that sets out the reinforcement lines necessary to reverse school failure; to develop measures to support and strengthen education to teacher training; to promote support measures in instrumental and language areas -- instrumental we know that languages and mathematics are essentially -- to develop a programme of boosting speech and to promote better school coexistence and to support councils and non-profit associations and to adopt measures for the validation of learning acquired in non-formal contexts. So far literature with which anyone can absolutely agree, anyone. Just as we agreed, and we still agree, with the first Action Plan for Equality in Educational Centres, including its evaluation system and its indicators. But it turns out that, by analyzing the budget execution of 2017, we find ourselves with something really remarkable. Recognizing the importance of this program and its theoretical conceptualization -- which I've referred to -- we've found that the German Government, the Education Council, originally planned this program with 19,700,000 euros. We understand that the fruit, of course, of a serious, responsible, coherent government, and beyond any doubt in its ability to manage, we budget that amount; therefore, we understand that it is necessary. But -- oh, surprise! -- during budgetary becoming it turns out that they make you a change and the credit of that program, 423B, it turns out to be 13 million and a half euros; i.e. you reduce 6.2 million euros, which means 32% reduction -- important reduction -- ; a third I think it's something really remarkable, something striking. Well, up there we could consider that it could be the result of a budget error; that is, we thought we would need nearly 20 million euros, pray, because we could budget it, because we are a serious government, responsible and fulfilling all the deficit targets and all the time they put us on top of it, but how, when everything needed to apply, were enough 13 million and a half euros, we made that budgetary change. Well, it turns out that by 2018, the Council budgets are budgeted at EUR 23 million, i.e. twice, practically twice -- euro above, euro below --, of what you spent in 2017. And then, of course, one starts having some reasonable doubt; that is, if it was enough 13 million euros in 2017, why do they budget 24 in 2018? Have they left things unmet in 2017? Because if they were enough, why do you have to double barley? Or are we faced with a wild game from which we're going to withdraw funds for other things as we're going to need them? And one can say: I can be wrong, I can have a biased vision, the fruit of a bad moment of interpretation, but when you pick up the 2017 People's Value Report, which includes the 2016-2017 course and the 2017-2018 course -- as we all know about teaching -- you find paragraphs like this: "This year we continue to receive complaints, in which we check..." -- in which we check, and say it, the People's Valuer, doesn't say it to the Galician Socialist Party -- "...that students see themselves deprived or come with great delay to educational support to which they have rights." Education support, supplementary measures provided for in Programme 423, to which we refer. Conclusion: you don't care enough about that program, or at least some of that program's strategic lines, because it's the People's Value itself, which says there's still students with poor care. And so you, first of all, didn't meet the program's objectives in 2017 and we're very afraid that the 2018 budget execution will result in the same as in 2017. I mean, we meet in front of a wild program; a program that -- as Mr. Losada says -- is advertising and propaganda. Please get rid of this that I just said and convince me that I am wrong and that the 2017 budget was wrong, or that the 2018 budget is wrong. One of them is necessarily false, because both things cannot be true at the same time; one thing and the other is, Mr. Fernández Gil, at the same time, cannot be true. So far we agree, don't we? So, Counselor, thanking you in advance for your documentation, although I hope you are convincing -- but I express my doubts -- explanations, I thank you for what you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u320	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Álvarez, the truth -- I say it with all affection -- you for humor are not well equipped. I think you mentioned Cicero, and me too, in this case, I'd like to think about it. Cicero's last book was Of officers, who dedicated himself to his son. By the way, part of that book was what he stood for, what had the Vindel parchment, sweeping it at its moment, and made it possible for the Vindel parchment to arrive until today. Well, in this book Of Officers, which Cicero dedicated to his son, to a Roman patrician, he always said he was very good at temperance, and you are a temperate man. Don't let it go! It doesn't have to be intoxicated, because at this late afternoon I think it's already a little late. [[Applause]] And entering into the plot of the interpellation, to me, the truth, seems to me to be very busy. I think to do this interrogation you're trying to make a technical confusion and somehow try to criticise the government's educational policy in a very requisitional way. Because the truth is, we can disagree with the model. It's true that there are different educational models, and it's good that it is. But there would be only one model! It is good that there is discrepancy and that there is debate. Fortunately, Galicia has a good quality education system and I think that very fair, from a social point of view, with a very significant importance of equity and equal opportunities. And it's also a model that is well received by the whole educational community. But, Mr. Álvarez, you know the education system; you are undoubtedly a good professional in the education system, but you also have government management experience. You were a concelerator in the Town Hall of Lugo, and I understand and I want to assume that you understand what processing is and what budget execution is. And that's why I'm surprised at the approach you make when you put in a category a budgetary change -- something that's quite ordinary and a fairly technical profile -- and you somehow try to sow doubts, precisely, about an educational variable of which Galicia may be very proud. And when I say Galicia I don't say this government, I say the whole educational community: teachers, families, directors, inspectors, mentors, and of course also the Administration, which makes programs aimed at reducing school failure. I believe that there is a significant data, and I believe that with this data, from a political point of view, the debate should be rather balanced or at least relaxed. That is, this government has made a school failure of almost 26% in 2009, 25.8%. By the way, in the years of the Bipartite, school failure increased almost by 4 points. Today we have a school failure rate below 15 % -- 14.9 %, in particular -- nearly 15 %, which is below the target set by the European Union by 2020. Something will be done right! Something will be doing well the education system when we are reducing school failure, when we are under the middle of Spain, quite a few points below the middle of Spain, and we are below the threshold set by the European Union by 2020. But, well, I too, so that there's no technical doubt about it, I'm going to do a technical description of what you just criticized here with a political perception. I know I'm gonna be bored because it's a purely technical thing. You're talking about program 423B. As you well said, in 2017, I had an initial budget of 19.7 million. Subsequently, this budget was increased by Law 3/2017, of 13 July, of impulse to economic growth and social expenditure reinforcement, and of modification also, by the Law 1/2017, the Budget Act of 8 February, to reach a credit of 19.8 million, regardless of what this answer will be about. Well, the 423B programme is managed by two management centres of the Council: on the one hand, by the Directorate-General for Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation -- something more than 2 million euros, with a recorded amount which is mainly directed at spending on transport derived from the PROA and various activities on real investments, in early school drop-out prevention programs, improved school success, as well as in the comprehensive foreign language learning plan -- and the other side is managed by the Directorate-General for Human Resources and Centres, approximately 17.8 million. In this case, the appropriations correspond to appropriations in Chapter I, mainly staff costs. And, as their nature indicates, they are oriented towards the payment of the teacher's salaries. As can be seen from the information sent monthly by the European Parliament to the Greek Parliament on budgetary changes, this programme 423B has been reduced. These reductions respond to: first, in chapter I, staff costs. Credit changes have been made that have reduced their amount to something more than 6.5 million euros -- from there comes their confusion -- with the object of adapting the budgetary appropriations to the needs arising from personal management itself -- high and low due to the change in employment relationship with the Administration; for example, interim staff that becomes official, transferee contest, etc. --. But this does not imply -- from there comes your mistake -- a reduction in personnel dedicated to preventing school dropout, but it has to do with the adequacy of wages in each case in different parts and chapters. Secondly, in Chapter II, current expenditure on goods and services, there was an increase of approximately EUR 750,000, basically oriented to the financing of expenditure incurred by the various educational centres in the reinforcement, guidance and support programmes -- the so-called PROA --. And third, as far as chapter VI is concerned, real investments, which manages in this case the Directorate General for Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation, there were also changes that reduced the budget by approximately EUR 535,000 to address the digitization of public services, operating costs of the centres and staff costs participating in the PROA, among others. Mr. Álvarez, the reality is that if we didn't take into account the expenses of chapter I that were the subject of the budgetary changes that you said and that we previously commented -- they were executed only in another game for the same purpose, but in another game -- the degree of execution of the resulting 423B program is not what you say. You say there's a 65% execution. It's running around 98%, because at no time it's stopped paying professionals who are involved in the prevention of school failure or all the actions that are geared to reducing this scourge. I think it would be all said with this. It's a technical explanation that I certify that you interpret only a part of the data and not interpret everything. What you say is a 65% execution is actually a 98% execution. Obviously, from there you set up a political debate and speak of one of the variables of which, precisely, Galicia may be more proud. This council, this government, is tremendously proud of the reduction in school failure, which, as I said, is not just a question of the Educational Administration, but is a collective process in which teachers, schools, families, etc. I think -- because the data so certify it -- that we have advanced in a remarkable way in recent years, with new programs: multilingual, multilingual teaching, extension of Tic, vocation STEAM, empowerment of vocational training... today I think I could see very closely here the importance of vocational training in Galicia today, but above all -- and it has a lot to do with what you're saying -- it's hardly technically and politically sustainable that there is no clear bet against reducing school drop or that there is no clear bet on promoting equal opportunities for the whole student in Galicia. And they're hardly questionable data. Galicia has the most equitable education in the state, it does not say this government, says the PISA report, tells it international bodies, says it the ministry itself, the most equitable system in Spain and the most inclusive system; that is, it has more pupils with special educational needs integrated into ordinary classes, more than 90 %. Of course, we have to keep working, of course, but we have to question that we have an educational system that does not guarantee equal opportunities does not really sustain the data or results we have here, with a professional mass of nearly two out of ten professionals dedicated to attention to diversity, or -- as I said -- with lower education abandonment in our history and below what the European Union demands for us by 2015. With which, truly, of course, it is absolutely contrary to other times. I remember here discussions with a member of the Socialist Group where there were said to be fewer resources than in the socialist era. Yes, but, curiously, although there have been fewer resources from 2009 to today because of the crisis, yet we were able to have better results in all variables. You, with a 30% increase in budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u322	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u323	...they were unable to reduce school failure; in fact, they increased by four points. That's why I always say, and I repeat, that sometimes it's not what you have -- it's not so much what you have or what you can invest or manage -- it's what you do what you have. And really, you've shown that there's very little to say about school dropout. In any case, technically, I hope you've explained me well, maybe I've done it wrong, I think it's a purely technical, absolutely normal matter, that dismantles what you've proposed. There is a nearly 100 percent execution and, above all, the most important thing is that the educational results in the field of equity, in the field of inclusion and in the field of equal opportunities are fully guaranteed, and this programme is developing, I believe, with remarkable success, as shown by the results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u324	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks on the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u325	Thank you, President. Yes, Counselor, it is true that we will do more with less. That's your maximum and that's what you're pushing your government management, cutting teachers, cutting resources, cutting rights. But the object of the inquiry is not that, about it has already been debated extensively and we will continue to debate, surely, because I think that, without making matters worse, in the matter of demands, bad times come upon his counseling, but we will see how things are evolving. Look, I didn't come here to make monologues of a humor show. If I'm short on humor, what we're going to do! I didn't live on it or aspire to live. I suppose you don't either, which I think reassures us both. Anyway, I can also tell you that we can keep talking about Cicero, and "nothing disturbs both human life and ignorance." That's also a phrase from Cicero. I hope that no one will feel flattered or put me in a lamentable state, so I apologize to the House and, in particular, to the Bureau for my loss of forms ever constant Mr. Tellado. You provoked my reaction. [[Murmurs.]] It's true it's not... No, it's a demerit of mine because there's a sentence that says anyone who controls... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u326	We will continue the debate, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u327	...and you control me and you shouldn't, but well, things are the way they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u328	Quiet, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u329	Look, Counsellor, I was apologizing to the House and the Bureau, I think it's a hoax of generosity, of honesty, which should be almost plausible unanimously by the House and not the usual object by you. [[Murmurs.]] But it wasn't possible to expect another kind of reaction either. Look, Counselor, you were prepared with an auto-response and talked about things I didn't say. Because of course, of course, if you review my intervention I didn't speak at any time of budget execution of 65.2%, I didn't say so. No, no, no, I didn't! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happens is that, of course, as that budget execution figure is in the books of the Council and the Government of Greece, he says, this is going to talk to me about 65... it's just that I didn't talk to him, I didn't talk to him. I can understand it, logically, I too in its place, of course, would come prepared with a series of argumental lines, but I did not tell you anything. I only told you, let's see, that they explain to us or that they explain to us that in 2017 they could cut six and a half million euros, that you made an explanation almost exclusively linked to staff. Frankly, I'm going to give you the benefit of believing that you're telling me a number that's true, that it's six million euros that you could no longer teach. That is very difficult to do with what the Socialist Party says, but the People's Value is talking about many cases found by the Valdoria of students who have not attended. What do you want me to say is that the Greek education system is a disaster? Don't get up, because you'll get tired of waiting for me to say it. I never said it or I'll say it, because it's not true. Nor is it true when the People's Party ruled before the Bipartite, nor during the Bipartite -- which, by the way, I think caused the bubonic plague, there are theories there -- and not now. No, it's not true. What's true is that there are cases of needs of specific care without care, and that you come and tell me that you can cut six and a half million euros of staff -- that's what you basically said -- of that program because there was no need, and that, on the other hand, an organism, without getting to be ethereal, but that it's surveilling us all, like the People's Valedor says it's found those needs, doesn't fit, it really doesn't fit, so there's something here. And you didn't explain why they did it again, if you've detected that it's enough 13 million euros, why this year they're twenty-four? Tell me. He said, I'm gonna be bored. I know that budgetary matters and explanations are arid, things like they are, they're arid, yes, but we can come to understand them. What costs us most to understand is that twice a year and that things continue the same, at some point a mistake has been made. I insist, do you have a programme 423B budgeted or overcrowded so you can handle it as a mattress for other needs that are given along the course, yes or no? It's an answer, Mr. Fernández Gil, binary, isn't it? Yes or no, he has no more options.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u330	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u333	Thank you very much. This Parliament has a good service, which is to record commissions and put them in the public eye on its website. I saw a commission the other day -- it's my job, obviously, I saw a mouse at Commission 4th -- and, without it being a precedent, I'm going to use a sentence from a companion of yours, who said -- I pointed it out because I liked it -- : "There are different thoughts that are not bad for you, the discrepancy itself is not bad. I think that's what's important. Now a discrepancy cannot be based or justified on an error and an absolutely wrong perception of reality and the use of ambiguous reality data." Look, you're trying to raise a purely political debate on a technical issue and you're talking about a cut of six million euros in staff. No, you said it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I also know that the Socialist Party is difficult -- historically it is -- to understand that to do more with less. If something has proved this government -- and in the history of Greek democracy and Greek autonomy, it will undoubtedly pass into history -- it is capable of doing more with less, without doubt. Because in the educational field if you compare what was before 2009 and what was developed from the year 2009, you can clearly see that sometimes -- as I said before -- it's not so much what you have, but what you do with what you have and can do; what you have to do is have courage, have the ability to manage and have the courage. I understand that the Socialist Party often has little memory and no longer remembers the cuts -- as you say now -- which seems to be the People's Party, they don't remember a gentleman called Zapatero, which is what really put in place the toughest measures that this country has suffered. So hard were they didn't even present in the next re-election the candidate. [[Applause]] And I also see that there is a weak vision, the Socialist Party has a weak vision. He's still talking, he's not past, he doesn't know what happened in the past, but you, who also used a simile -- let's say -- about television advertising, he's been talking about TV products, I'd also tell him to look around and compare; I'd tell him to look for and compare, and look at other autonomous communities and see how educational systems are in other autonomous communities historically managed -- and I don't say the name -- by the Socialist Party anymore. Find, compare, and then, if you want, buy it; of course, the Greeks don't buy that model from you, you can be absolutely sure. And of course, you do here a simile of aristothelic logic. He says, of course, you don't say that 65 percent was executed, but when you're saying that it doesn't run around a third, it means that the rest is executed. You say you run only 65%, about 65%. But that's not true, practically 100 % is executed, ninety-eight percent is peaked. And the six million euros are not cut, because if the six million euros were cut, there would be no teachers with programme contracts. You know that program contracts involve hiring more than a hundred teachers in addition to the ordinary professor. There would be no teachers for basic vocational training, there would be no teachers for all the actions that are developed in the ordinary field of the education system. It's true they didn't pay for that game, 423B, but they paid for another one. And why didn't they pay for that game? Because there are changes in ordinary management that may seem like a great amount, but six million, about 1.3 billion, which is the general calculation, all the changes in these games are absolutely normal, logical, technical and boring to explain. With which I think there's a certain imbalance, absolutely, in its approach, because it's trying to move to the public image, to the political debate, a technical question, above all when the results show that this variable, in particular, is a variable that is fortunately in a good situation, because there's nothing more socially unfair than a child or a child leaving the street without any type of titration, because "condemning" that person to difficult vital itineraries. And so brilliant autonomous communities, always ruled by the Socialist Party, duplicate in school failure to Galicia. And it's not because there's something divine, because they were starting with a situation like this a few decades ago, they were starting with a social income situation similar to Welsh. But, however, the constant policies of not doing more with less, of moving forward without thinking at all, lead to the situation that they are, which comparatively in no case is sustained. And you tell me about the 2018 budget, I'd tell you something. In the 2018 budget chapter I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u334	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u335	...increased because it is planned, questioned and already proposed a budget increase as in the rest of the chapters. And at the end of the day I had a lot of things to tell you, I certainly don't have any more time, but I'm going to do a final reflection on the model of education in Galicia, which I think -- as you said well -- it's a good education system that needs to be improved, that it has problems, but we have a good education system in quality and equity, and we always have to bet on education, because that's what allows us to grow up as a society, both individually and collectively. And this government always works with two assumptions: promoting quality and promoting equity, because one thing without another makes little sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u336	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u337	Only quality would be elitism, there would not be equal opportunities, but only equity would be a waste.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u338	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u339	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u340	We move on to the next question mark for the government. Question by Maria Ángeles García Míguez and seven other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the balance sheet of the Government of Greece regarding the results of the promotion of the shared management of women's information centres in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u341	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, it was in 1995 when they started their march in Galicia at the first women's information centres. He was a government of the People's Party, chaired by the then president of the People's Party, Mr. Manuel Fraga, which put in motion the first information centres, which were of Crescent, Coyros, Arzua's, Melide's and Monterroso's. And from there it has been increasing the number of CIM, up to 81, which is now present. An appeal, Mr Vice-President, which we believe is of vital importance to all the Greeks. A counselling service, a prevention service, a sensitization service, a coordination service and a service, of course, of care, of attention to all women, not only those who suffer from gender violence -- of course, that is a priority -- but to any woman who has a problem of the type that is, of a kind of work, of a type of discrimination, even to advise herself of a lease contract, of a receipt from a bank that does not understand etc., etc. A service, Mr. Rueda, which has always been the most. It was always the most and only moment in which it was in danger, at risk, that it was during the two-party government, that they fill their mouths with saying they promote equality, that they are the adalids of equality, and little less that they have the monopoly to protect women with equality policies, a bipartite government that the only ambition I had in terms of equality was to place and hire theirs -- from there they created the chiringuit king: the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare -- and also intended to close the information centres to the woman, creating a parallel network of R & D offices. Mr. Vice-President, I don't say so; I told the IGC, that he's not a suspect of being a People's Party or much less. Well, Mr. Vice-President, it was in 2009, when the People's Party's Government comes in, again when it comes back to playing role, and the work of the women's information centres is again important. From then on, in 2013 it begins to subsidize shared work, coordinated work among different administrations, and therefore the situation of optimizing the public media, efficiency, efficiency and rationalization gives the possibility that information centres to women do a shared work. And that is why we ask you, Vice-President, what is the balance of the results of the promotion and shared management of women's information centres in Galicia? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u343	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The vice president and councillor, Public Administration and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, indeed, Mrs Prado, we are committed to the possible resources that could be available to provide advice throughout Galicia. That was the fundamental objective of the CIS in the field of equality, in the field of combating gender-based violence, and generally in the care of women, mostly, but not only women in the replica of data, but also in the attention which through the CIS is made to men who demand this attention. But it is true that we consider, since the arrival of the Government, that the CISG and its deployment, that they have come, if not to the whole of the territory, yes to the most part of it and, of course, to the most rural and small municipalities, that without this resource they would have virtually impossible to give this attention, because we have done so, and I think that the numbers are coming back to much progress. Today, there are 81 centres, serving 215 municipalities, precisely because of the intention we've been getting -- we haven't finished yet -- that they collaborated with several municipalities to have a center that cares for them all. It doesn't make much sense the situation we found, where it was practically a CISG, a municipality. And so in 2013 we made a determined bet, we made it not only in promoting information centres to women, actually in all the grants that were directed from the Union to the local entities of Galicia, promoting, in all those that could be -- you can't at all but yes to most -- that the requests were joint and therefore also enjoy it together, with all the obvious benefits that this implies. With reference to the CIS, this intention, that is to say, in 2013 -- I say -- we made this first call, encouraging the joint request, and already at that moment, 2.7 million euros, then it went up. 30 % -- almost the third -- of the amount granted was for the purpose of providing their service in more than one municipality. We have been increasing the amounts, we have been promoting this joint request and in 2017 the amount devoted to CIM has increased considerably: from 2.7 in 2013 to 3.4 in 2017. And we also got 44% -- we didn't get to half, but we're getting closer -- of the dedicated money, of these 3.4 -- it was for CIM that they paid a lot of attention. We had 20 joint requests for attention in 2013 and 31 in 2017. And we're going to keep moving and we believe that this, of course, is the way, and the numbers show it. In 2008, Galicia had 76 CIM and now we have 81. Maybe you could think that didn't greatly increase the number, but it increased the covered population and also the number of people who work in the CIS; 98 municipalities in the year 2008; 215, we doubled the amount, we exceeded that doubled amount, 215 municipalities attended. So this proves to be a good initiative and we're going to keep trying to get CIMs all over the territory at the end, promoting what you said in your question: shared management, which we sincerely believe works, and works well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u345	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Prado del Río has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u346	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I must congratulate you, Mr Vice-President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Yes, I have to congratulate you. I know it bothers us to congratulate on the equality policies that go on in Galicia. And we have to congratulate him because, indeed, if he is reaching more territory, more population. They're the ones that in municipal governments close CIM. Those who in the municipal governments, with the money you give them from the grant to the CIS, buy the office of the concierge, as is the case with Santiago de Compostela, Marta Lois. Rinse, Mr. Vice-President, those who, of course, hire, continue to hire vices, because they have vices -- this morning we were talking about vices --. For those who talk about vice, who today are in another group but who once, when it was the Bipartite, were under those slogans that governed Galicia, today they buy their apartments to their party partners, today they hire with false autonomous, fellows and signatories of that party, and they continue to hire closely, which was what they did in the Consortium, in the offices of R & D, etc., etc. That is why I tell you, Mr President, that I must congratulate you, because indeed, the Government of Galician Union is making a commitment for equality, subsidizing women's information centres and promoting women's information centres and not hiring them to friends and members of the political organization that supports the Government. [[Applause]] Mr. Vice-President, I would like you to tell us in your reply what the amounts of investments and budgets you have for equality policies in Galicia are. I thank you once again for this information, because it is very important for everyone to know that what you have just said here, that you are now reaching 215 municipalities, doubling the territory and population to which the advice of the CIS comes, it seems fundamental, because indeed, not only the women of Galicia but also the men who need that information, counselling, awareness, which is fundamental, and prevention of discrimination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u347	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u348	...it seems very important to us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u349	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u350	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. We're going to try, as I told you in the first intervention, to persevere in this promotion of the CIS, because the data that gave you at the end of my first intervention -- to think that twice as many municipalities as attended -- would advise us to continue on that path. It's almost 30 million euros invested from 2009 to last year, the last budget closed, only in the maintenance of the CIS. It is true that all the municipalities also work together here, but now especially the Council of Galicia, to make it possible, precisely, what I was saying to you before: that small municipalities can have a service that would in principle seem reserved only to larger, more economically capable municipalities, or to urban areas. In addition, in 2015, we made a special effort, almost 300,000 euros to renew material from these ICDs, which also required them, in 63 centres, and we approved a CIS decree regulating many things that were necessary to regulate and that practice advised them to have been homogenously fixed for the entire ICD network, for example to require 200 hours of training activity or an equivalent experience for the workers of the different ICDs; to also specialize in the CISs to assist the LGTBI group and their families, in collaboration with the municipalities here closely; and also to establish something fundamental, which is the principle of universal attention; that is, even though the CIS has its geographical scope, no woman, no person, anyone who wants to go to a CISC is limited because it does not belong to any of the councils that meet that CISC in principle. The CIMs attend precisely, because they now work online, anyone approaching there. Well, it's true that the logical thing to think about is that people who ask for services will go to those who have closer to their residence, but sometimes, for many reasons, it's not so, and the principle of universal attention, the network operation of these ICDs, allows anyone to go to any CIS in Galicia and can be cared for regardless of where he comes from, and this also irrespective of whether the municipalities -- Junta is also promoting it -- they can make collaborative arrangements, especially what the ICD has in their own municipal term. We're talking about CIM in common. Logically, the practice is that it always takes more time and, therefore, we are promoting and promoting cooperation agreements with the municipalities that it serves. By giving you some data, to finish, 66,055 consultations in 2017, only in 2017, and a third of them referred to psychological care; a good part, 20,000, legal advice; attention to people by cases directly related to gender violence since the beginning, 10,129; and information on other types of resources, 8,114. And the CIS tend mostly women -- it's true -- it's 11,993, but it's also men. I think it's good for you to know. 762 male consultations at the CIM in 2017. The demand, considering urban contours/rural contours, is very similar. I think this is good. 6,015 people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u351	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u352	...... yes, finished, Mr President, in rural areas, 6.075 in urban areas. And this year three new CIMs were created in Galicia: in the municipality of Mos, Conso Frieiras and in Verín. Two were closed -- it's true -- the lamentable episode -- we said -- of the closure of the CISG at Ponte Caldelas, with no alternatives, and the Vilanova CISG closed, but there the Town Hall what it did was put into the Joint CISG. I wish the Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas had the same sensitivity; of course I did not have it and we regretted it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u353	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions undertaken by the Galician Council since 8 March 2018 to reduce the economic-laboral discrimination of women in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u354	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u355	Counsellor, there are many types of discrimination that we have suffered by the women of Greece in all areas of our lives, but there is one, the economic-worker, which is absolutely paramount. It will agree with me, at least, that economic independence is fundamental to empowerment and to the development of autonomous life. More than a month ago, on March 8th, it took place internationally and in our country an absolutely historical mobilization, where women demand real changes from the public authorities. Proportionally, even the mobilization in Galicia was greater than in the rest of the state and the Galicians demanded and demanded urgent measures from the Galician Union, and the work knows it was one of the main themes of that mobilization agenda. You guys back then -- it's been a prudent time -- they said they took note, but how many more weeks since the BNG give us a little bit of the impression that you're better off adopting the Rajoy style, of "not getting into it." But the nationalists if we want to get into it, because we see that neither you nor the central government are doing their homework with a question that is fundamental to us: wage cracks and discriminations especially in private enterprise. Although we are also concerned, of course, about the public sector, the fact is that, since it is much more controlled, if we for a moment separate its figures and evaluate what's happening with the pay in the private sector, the X-ray we're left is absolutely disappointing. It reflects a much deeper discrimination than when we see the data together and we think that we can't afford more time to decide on its part. For example, if we look at the branches of services to companies and personal and leisure services, workers -- and workers who are most, more than 50% -- we see that they have a crack in 2017, with data from the Tax Agency, of 29.2% and 27.7%. That is, if we measure the impact of the pay gap, we remove the pay gap from the workers and public workers, we see it as a self-disturbed wage gap, at 22%, as it reaches almost 30%. We add to this the consequences of the economic crisis, the worsening of working conditions, the quotas of timeliness, and all this because in an employment framework in which, both absolute and relative terms, as little as you like, unemployment has increased more in women than in men since the third quarter of 2009. And in this scenario, we wonder what they've done, because we don't see a single economic measure or a single measure specifically designed to combat the pay gap, especially in the private sector. Neither do you propose anything in this regard nor do you take into consideration the proposals that we make.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u356	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u357	So I ask you, Mr. Conde, what actions have taken since March 8 to correct the economic and labour discrimination we have suffered by the women of Greece?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u358	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u359	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Presas, the truth is I have to recognize a certain misunderstanding on your initiative, and I am puzzled for three reasons. The first is because he asks what the proceedings are since March 8, and he curiously records the question on the day 12; that is, he gives us four days to act, which I thank him for, because logically it is a confidence from his parliamentary group that, indeed, we have that positive response capacity on the part of the Government. The truth is, what I can tell you is that the Galician Union hasn't worked for equality for four days, the Galician Union has been working for twenty-five years for gender equality and women's jobs in Galicia, and we'll continue to work every day. The second reason, Your Honor, for my perplexity is because your question coincides with what I answered a month ago to Mrs. Pierres in this plenary on March 21. So I said that, indeed, this government had taken note -- I believe that like all parliamentary groups -- of the 8th March and that the Government would indeed strengthen measures to promote total equality between men and women. And that's what the Government set up to do. And, Your Honor, on April 5, in less than a month, this government approved the I-Glew plan of conciliation and co-responsibility, which converts Galicia into the first community with a tool of these characteristics. And the third reason for my confusion is how you use the data. It's funny that here in the intervention you're talking about data from the Tax Agency when you're actually giving data from the IGC, based on the data from the Tax Agency. It's funny, maybe it turns out he wants to talk another way. But look, don't cheat on the lonely. That same report from the IGC study, which is what you use for this data, which says that in 2008 the salary divide in Galicia was 25.5%, i.e. 3.2 points more than in 2016, the same report from the IGC. The salary divide in Galicia, Your Honor, is smaller than in Spain and the wage divide in Galicia is less than years ago. Therefore, we continue to move forward and we continue to take action -- then in the reply I will move you to another type of action that we are doing -- but, Your Honor, I think this government is clearly demonstrating its commitment to equality, driving co-responsibility measures, conciliation measures, employment promotion measures and wage equality measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u360	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor to reply to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u361	Mr. Conde, what is really disconcerting is what they have in the Greek Government. First, you come here with an apology for dates, today is April 25th, it's been prudently since March 8th, I don't know what you have to see on the question log day. You know what the times in this Parliament are like, you know, that to ask an urgent question you have to do with a week and a half ahead of you. Man, it's just...! [[Applause]] Then it comes with questions... of course, as you don't like the data, because at the initiative we also refer to another type of data, like those of the Gesha report. If you want to talk about other data, but what is obvious is that, if you look at the labour market, the wage divide is a very important problem in Galicia, it is very important, between 25% and 30%, and it is essential above all if you evaluate the private market. What's going on? That you have nothing to say to me. The only thing you're going to say to me is that of the Conciliation Plan, but look, the problems that we have of the German women and the German workers don't have to do with the employment conciliation alone. That's a problem, but I'm asking you about economic and labour discrimination, the numerical discrimination of accounts that we receive from women for the same job. I'm not messing up -- I know you're a little obsessed -- maternity in the middle. Look, we have to urge you to stop imitating Mr. Rajoy and act to avoid discrimination against women, especially in the private sector, which is where it is stronger. I, when you told me you were baffled, I thought you'd say your apology that you don't have any competences, but what you have is a problem of incompetence in the state, that you don't implement the measures that you should implement sanctions for companies that discriminate workers, or at the Galician Council, where you don't want them, because you could, for example, take the glove of implementing a Greek law of equal pay; you could, for example, vote on ferrial clauses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u362	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u363	... -- I'm finished now, Mr. President, it's just that Mr. Conde has left me confused -- in the public contract that takes on the role of equality in the competition at the same level as the economic criteria, and not for unemployment, which is what you do, or clauses stop automatically and clearly the contracts that you have with companies when it is detected that there is gender discrimination in them. But of course, what they can't do is throw balloons out, and excuses have very short legs, Mr. Count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u364	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Government's replica shift, the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u365	Of course, Mrs. Presas, that the BNG, when he doesn't have any arguments, when he doesn't know how to answer the replies, he immediately looks at Madrid and tries to find arguments where there aren't. [[Murmurs.]] I'm telling you about Galicia, and I'm actually telling you about the decisions that the board of directors is making. If you want to talk about Galicia, talk about Galicia; if you want to talk about Madrid, I think you've made a mistake about it. In any case, I refer to the data that you bring here to Parliament and that I have actually transferred that IGC data, which you here want to hide. Indeed, in 2008, Galicia's salary gap is 3 points lower than in 2016. [[Murmurs.]] Tell me about Gesha's data. Yes, Your Honor, he wants to cheat on the lonely again. Gesha says in that report, too, that Galicia is the seventh autonomous community with the lowest gap, Your Honor, the lowest. In short, the two reports you put into your question confirm the data of the National Institute of Statistics that uses this government, which is that the wage divide in Galicia is smaller than in the state as a whole, 21.92% compared to 22.96%. I'm talking about specific data, you're talking about philosophy. In any case, the salary gap in Galicia too is less than years ago. So let's just come over and keep talking about economy, Mrs. Presas. Look, I'm talking about specific decisions and data. I'm telling you that in this government we continue to act with a 25% increase in employment aid for women. We also follow, Your Honor, with the help of maternity or paternity conciliation of autonomous people for sixteen more weeks. We continue with integrated employment programmes aimed at women, with a renewed edition of the Executive Programme, to boost leadership skills among professionals and also recent ones. We have increased, Your Honor, by 60% aid to promote equality, reconciliation and corporate social responsibility in small and medium-sized enterprises. And by the way, because we're talking about the IGC, because you're talking about it in your question, are you in agreement with this government and with economic and social agents to support the work placement of 300 textile workers in Orders, that Galitex program that has achieved this government along with the European Union, which will invest 1,200,000 euros so that three hundred textile workers, women, can integrate? I'm asking you because the IGC, no. I'd like to know if the Galego Nationalist Block supports the work integration of three hundred textile women into Orders through the Galitex program. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Oolaia Rodil Fernández and five other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures taken or planned by the Government of Greece to ensure in the future the safety of the people visiting the cathedrals beach, in the municipality of Ribadeo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u367	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u368	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Today we asked you, as you have just reported, about the management and conservation of the cathedrals beach, in the Town Hall of Ribadeo, and we do it to the thread -- as you well know -- of a tragic event. Go forward to the deepest regret, on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, for the family of the woman who died last March. Personal losses are irrecoverable, they are irreparable, in addition, but that accident has to serve -- we believe it so from BNG -- to reflect, to analyze the management, planning, protection and conservation that is developing this space and which must, above all, be the measures to be taken with a view to the future. The Cathedrals -- they know perfectly well -- they're an exceptional space, they're a unique, protected space, catalogued as a natural monument. But, above all, if something has to be taken into account about the cathedrals is that I'm a living space, I'm a dynamic space, whose visit carries some risks, more happens later, as happened on Holy Week this year, of a rain and wind storm. That's why, for all these reasons, because they're a living space, because they're a natural and dynamic space, they can't be conceived or managed as a conventional arena, because it's not. Since the BNG we want to ask you, Mrs Mato, about the measures you have taken or are planning to take to ensure the safety of the thousands of people who visit this space every day, but also what measures they intend to take to ensure the orderly management of this space. You put in, just a few days ago, Tuesday -- if I don't remember bad -- of last week, some signs, restricting access to certain areas on the beach of the Cathedrals, but you will agree with me, Mrs. Mato, in which, in itself, signs do not deter visitors most of the time from accessing restricted spaces. In addition, they should already be put -- so pointed out by the report and the study developed by Professor Vidal Romaní --. But I insist on this question: signs, by themselves, do not often discourage people who decide, fearfully on many occasions, to approach a space that is expected to be restricted. We believe from the BNG that there should be staff of the Galician board on that cathedral beach to develop awareness, information and, above all, risk prevention tasks for thousands of people who come to this space every day. That's why we ask him: what measures, besides that report that they asked the University of the Crown and those signs they put last week, do you plan to take to ensure security in this area? Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u369	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The Regional Environment and Planning Adviser is in turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u370	Good afternoon, and thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. I also add, once again, as I had already done at his own time, to reiterate my condolences to the deceased's family in that unfortunate accident. It is true that, in the exercise of my competence, the competition that this council has, and in order to protect a jewel of our nature, was already in 2015 when a conservation plan was put in place that limited access to the cathedrals beach. I say it because, uniquely and exclusively, that was its end: to protect that jewel, that natural monument. There was neither one, nor two, nor three times that we had meetings with the different stands, especially with the Town Hall of Ribadeo, to consensualize precisely this basic plan back then -- I'm talking about the year 2015 --. Even in those conversations we had certain reluctance to put an entry limit on this beach by the Town Hall. But it is true that, since that year 2015, this conservation plan, the protection plan of this natural monument, both during summer and during the Holy Week period -- and I have done this -- was implemented in the Holy Week period and in the summer period -- which is when this conservation plan that leads this council, without any incidence and with total harmony, has been recorded. As I say, this conservation and management plan was based on a technical study in charge of 2015, which comes to limit access and says that it has to be 4,812 people who can visit that area at most. A number of recommendations are also made in that report and, indeed, one of them was that the technical report had been reviewed every five years to assess the situation in which the canteen is located, the situation in which the beach is located, and even, also, different recommendations for access to it. However, we did not expect those five years and two years later, in September last year, we sent another study to the university, to Professor Vidal Romaní, to say whether there was or not, whether or not the circumstances of the canteen were changed and whether or not there was more danger in the area. This new report makes a number of recommendations, which we incorporate, which reinforce the warnings to visitors about the risks that this visit may entail. The cartels have been placed since 2015. The posters you're talking about, and those you mention, because they came out in a medium of communication, they weren't new, what was new was the poster, but not the content, that was already put in the arena. That's why already before Holy Week we introduced the website requesting permission to enter, precisely that written recommendation to the visitor that he should be careful. The Council of Ribadeo, as competent in monitoring and observing the safety of people in the summer months, has a relief service -- I insist -- to ensure the safety of people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u371	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u372	Because, as I told you, the Environmental Council is not competent to look after people's safety, but to look after the state of good in this case of the natural monument. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u373	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u374	Yes, thank you, President. Let me go a little bit as I went through the door, Mrs. Mato, if I tell you the truth, and I hope that in your next intervention I can sink a little more into the question we have asked you, which is what measures you have taken so far and what you intend to take to ensure the protection and security of people who approach the canteen. We have three minutes, I'm not going to explain to you a legislation that, in fact, you know perfectly. All legislation and the legislative framework, in addition to this 2015 conservation plan, the Natural Heritage Act and the Nature Conservation Act, collect what are the competences, obligations and responsibilities of its advisors in that matter. And that's where the guarantee of that security comes from people approaching a monument, a natural space that has its risks. I insist on this question because it's not a cathedral, we can't close the door and that people don't come in; you can't shut the door and stop people from passing, because you can go down from one beach to another. In that sense you end up with some interesting questions. You were talking about relief, we asked you if you're going to guarantee the squares that are needed by rescuers and if you're going to extend the period, because last year there were a lot of complaints because you were only suffering for two months that rescue service. We also asked him for an important part, I was referring to my first intervention, which is not only security, it is not just management, it is also making an order of thousands of people approaching. And here I want to ask you a very specific question, and it's when you're going to send back to the Council of Ribadeo the reports that are missing from the board of Gaulza to be able to approve this year's special plan for the protection of cathedrals, which would come to regulate the 56 adjacent hectares, which are in which it has direct responsibility for the Council of Ribadeo. Among other issues to be able to make a parking lot, to be able to make a visitor centre where, in addition to this, I'm done -- to be able to provide that service, security, risk prevention information to thousands -- I insist -- people, because we're talking about Galicia's second most visited point. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u375	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the Government's replica shift, the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u376	Well, the truth is, you're right that you haven't given me time to answer specifically all the measures we've put in place. But it is true that I now have the opportunity to tell you that we call the Council and even the Directorate-General of Coastal Affairs at two meetings, precisely in the sense that each administration in its powers has the ability or not to implement a number of additional measures. The truth is, in order to implement a number of measures, we wanted -- and we think it's necessary -- to increase technical knowledge about the situation in which the canteen is found. So we charge -- and it's already in charge -- a geotechnical report to the University of Coruña, specifically to the Higher Technical School of Road Engineers. And with that preliminary report, which we expect is finished at the end of this month, at the end of April, we will be able to rejoin once again the three administrations and each of us, according to our competences, those powers that grant us the laws -- that you very well mentioned and that you have to do, exclusively with the protection of nature -- because each of the administrations can take different measures -- as I say, strictly -- based on that supplementary report that we have already done in September and that we hope that in the coming days we have already moved forward by the School of Engineers. On the other hand, in these weeks, what we have done since this council is new reinforcement measures in the dissemination of the rules of public use of space, improving the information offered to visitors on the prohibitions and risks associated with this visit, also reinforcing the surveillance in the area -- and we will continue to do so in the face of the festive bridges we have now this May -- and, of course, also evaluating stability with that geotechnical report, which I think will mark the possible actions that we can develop -- I insist -- each one within our competences. It's important to say that the public maritime domain is the competence of the Directorate-General of Coasts and, therefore, something has to say there. And also, of course, the observance and surveillance of security is of the Town Councils. There are many municipalities that don't support the help of the Galician Council to fund the hiring of rescuers. This information on the financing of the recruiting of rescuers could give the advice it takes. But, of course, I think the Re Ribadeo Town Hall -- tell me -- is committed to this beach, and especially I am convinced that there will be rescuers even if it is directly dependent on the municipality itself. As I am also aware of the close collaboration we are developing so that this special plan to protect the monument is a reality as soon as possible. We have been working with him since the Environment Council so that all reports from all the relevant areas, not just urbanism, can be treated as quickly as possible and become a reality, because since he actually introduced me to this parking lot, I think it's absolutely necessary. And we share with the Repadeo Council the importance it has for the dynamism of this municipality this natural monument. And, indeed, we will strive to ensure that it is also safe. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u377	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members, by Mr P. Popular de Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the development of the first phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan launched on 8 August 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u378	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I'll bring back to this House a question about Galicia's Public Transport Plan with the objective that the groups have their assessment of the balance of the government's stand-up in these first months of operation and, as far as possible, forward the next steps and objectives. This morning we had a chance to talk about transport. He said it was right to value the new programs that are implementing Joina, that are working well, and that, of course, they can continue to improve. And that's why we were moving forward to propose that the Board should study the feasibility of extending the freeness of public transport to the younger by taking advantage of the second phase of the Public Transport Plan and counting on Members. While the municipalities also extend free urban transport which is of their competence, as we have already approved in this Parliament in June 2016, and there are still municipalities that have not done so in these almost two years. By the way, a good news that we just had -- this morning I didn't have it -- it's just been published that the Dispute Tribunal has just suspended that fantastic invention of Pass Vigo. I think it's good news. In any case, and on the contrary, the Union's commitment to public transport throughout Galicia is clear. But even if we're trying to create a fictitious story that doesn't match reality, fortunately citizens know, use and positively value improvements in public transport. At the beginning of this legislation, Counsellor, he committed himself to what would be the legislating of transport, moving both in the management of the bus line map and through the drive of policies, services and infrastructure. And in recent times, much of his work has been geared towards modernizing and driving this road passenger transport, and over the past year, the Council has carried out an intense planning work to continue following these resignations of certain companies to continue with this provision of the service, but also aimed at strengthening and providing better territorial coverage, especially in rural areas. The work culminated on August 8 with the launch of the first phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan, which mainly hosted the provinces of Ourense and Lugo, but also a specific area of the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra. So it's been a few months since it's been in operation -- we believe -- to make balance and valuation. That is why we are asking the following question: what assessment does the Chair of the first phase of the Public Transport Plan in Galicia put in place last August 8th? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. Prado. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u381	Thank you, President. Your Honor, last August 8 went into operation and launched the first phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan, which guaranteed and enabled the public transport service, which was seriously at risk after the resignations of many companies to continue to provide the transport service, mainly throughout the province of Lugo, Ourense and part of Pontevedra, and in some areas of the Coruña. It was the resignations of 578 lines of transport affecting the provinces I was commenting on. And after a titanic effort -- I have to say -- a great effort from the entire Councillory, the Business Council, the Education Council, the public employees, the entire Council of Galicia -- the Public Transport Plan began in August on its way. And thanks to that Galician transport plan, there was not a single day left without transport. We were able to shield the more than 500 jobs that were at risk for these waivers of transport, and we were able to extend services, mainly to our rural, to the Italian countryside, with new modes of transport to achieve sustainable transport and to achieve efficient transport: shared modes of transport and modes of transport to demand. In August of last year, 2017, forty-one new contracts, in February of this year, entered into operation, two new contracts from Galicia's main lines that connected the cities of Galicia. By empowering the transport network, we have made available to all the Greek 800 new lines of transport. After seven months of the start of the first phase of public transport, we can say that the balance sheet is positive. As for the figures, we can say that the number of kilometres of service offered by general transport has increased. Out of 11 million kilometers we went 15 million miles a year, so an increase of 35 percent. We have more than tripled the number of transport stops that any user can use to use public transport. And they also dropped tariffs in an important way, they lowered rates of virtually all new lines by reducing tariffs in some areas up to 80 percent. Instead -- as I said -- to achieve efficient transport and to achieve sustainable transport in Galicia, there are two modalities, the first, the shared transport. The shared transport allows to avoid these empty buses, allows the use of these empty squares of school transport with, of course, always shielded attention to schoolchildren. And we can give results, of the 491 integrated lines of the shared bus, there were 75,000 people who used the shared transport these seven months, so important this measure. And as for the transport of demand, also that previous reservation, because it was from last year's 550 calls to that transport reservation on demand. Therefore, important initiatives to encourage and work on sustainable and efficient transport in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u382	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u383	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer, and the facts are that they speak for themselves. I think he said positive, I would expand them to excellent. Congratulations, really, for these results. I took note of some of them, which I think is worth repeating. 11 to 15 million kilometers, which I think is an important increase, and the price decrease of up to 80 %. [[Murmurs.]] I was talking about 75,000 people who used shared transport -- I took note, and 75,000 seems great -- and even though new services always cost starting them up, I think 550 users of this transport demand is also a very subtle figure. Congratulations on your work. Recently, and specifically last February 16th, the Government of Greece announced the bidding of studies corresponding to a second phase of the Public Transport Plan in Galicia, for an investment of 2.7 million euros, with the aim of Galicia having a modern transport service and agree when the current concessions are completed in 2019. We hope that at this second stage opposition groups will work together and be constructive and will defend the general interest and not just be those speakers using the same arguments that companies used. You can be sure that companies only think for their own interests, while the Union is thinking about the general interest. But whether they cooperate or not since the opposition, we would like to know what steps they have planned and how they have planned to implement this second phase of this plan. And again, I commend you for those results of the first phase, for the work you've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u385	Thank you. Your Honor, the truth is that the new modes of transport, the transport and the shared bus, the transport on demand, have given important benefits to people, to the Greeks, especially to the rural people. As I said, in seven months 550 people used that service reservation to prevent the use of empty buses, and those 550 service reservation calls almost half were in Ourense province. And, as I said, 75,000 people used that shared bus, these empty school transport squares, which, by the way, worked perfectly, not just one single incidence and therefore gave benefits to our rural neighbours. Instead, as a whole, in the Transport Plan, the first phase has also recorded a significant increase of users, 5.16% more, of the number of general transport travellers in these seven months; hence 3.2 million user travels, both general and students, in these seven months. We started the first phase, and without rest, we've already worked in the second phase. Now of course it's more important to work and be dumped in the second phase of Galicia's public transport plan. In February we have already called for important studies to carry out an important fieldwork, an important fieldwork in which we divide Galicia into different areas to analyze the current situation, to analyse concrete transport needs, and we will continue to bet on shared transport and transport demand wherever it is useful and where it really is justified. We call for the maximum participation of all, of the municipalities, basically. We're looking forward to collaboration from the municipalities and we'll also have meetings, we're already having meetings with different social agents and also surveys and interviews with those transport demand centres. To analyse specifically the needs of hospitals, health areas, educational centres, bus stations themselves, administrative centres as well as business centres and industrial polygons, which are really generating demand for transport services. As I said, we've already started those meetings. We are also taking advantage of the Committee on the Monitoring of Metropolitan Transport to jointly address this second phase of the Transport Plan, and we have completed the drafting of that basic document which we will submit public information to the first of the two public information we will make at that second stage, which will be next Monday, April 30. We expect maximum participation and, of course, work to achieve the stability of those 50,000 workers working in the sector and also to work for more modern transport and also to improve the mobility of our rural population. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u386	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal, by G. P. de En Marea, on the implementation by the Council of Galicia of some reports on the consequences of the establishment of large commercial areas for local trade, employment and small business site owners
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u387	To put the question, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u388	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you know very well, probably much better than me, Galicia has nearly a million square meters occupied by shopping malls. They now assume 39 business centres: 18 in the Coruña, 16 in Pontevedra, 3 Place and 2 in Ourense. By 2020 the construction of another 400,000 square meters is planned, 20 % of all projects planned throughout Spain. International investment funds and promoters boost 5 new shopping centers, all of them in southern Galicia -- 2 in Ourense and 3 in Pontevedra -- which add up to the 400,000 square meters I mentioned earlier. The biggest future operations are located in Vigo. There is planned for 2020 the Vialia project at the AVE station, with an area of 90,000 square meters. Then, the British fund Eurofund Capital Partners maintains the plan to build in Vigo the largest shopping center in Galicia, with more than 500,000 square meters, despite the controversy that sparks and, as we know, to collect a number of firms in a way -- as mentioned this morning -- irregularly, an initiative impossible to develop with the city's vigorous urban plan. The investment fund tries to circumvent this plan with the collaboration of the Galician board -- it seems to be -- to declare the project of a supra-municipal character, which would allow Eurofund to skip the nullity of the Vigo General Plan. In the neighbouring municipality of Mos is in the initial phase of studies the 120,000 square meters shopping center of the sports town of Celta, which would also require changes in urban regulations. This situation of concentration of property and commercial area in Galicia, far superior to other areas of Spain and Europe, in the hands of speculative funds, is a huge risk to the diversity of the commercial system, since it cannibalizes and destroys small trade in city centres, with all the negative consequences that this implies, for a sustainable social development of them and adversely affects their attractiveness to visitors. In addition, these large shopping malls assume an insatiable decrease in market opportunities for small commercial site owners, as is being noticed in a very important way in the city of Coruña, with streets such as the Royal Street and San Andrés Street practically deserted, with many empty sites, because they are not rented due to competition, to the strong competition of these new commercial surfaces. The rental prices of the commercial surface in the large centers are inescapable for small business initiatives, which leads to these centers being copied by large brands and their franchisees. This greatly limits the capacity for innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u389	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u390	- Yeah, I'm done. After the answer I will continue with the argument, but the proposal I already read to you, Counsellor: have you made some report on the consequences for local trade, for small business owners and the destruction of employment that involves the deployment of large commercial areas? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. You have the floor, by the Government, the Economic, Employment and Industry advisor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Casal, the truth is that I think it is very appropriate for this Parliament to bring the debate on the situation of trade, particularly on the proximity trade. The only thing I would thank you for is that the debate will be marked on specific data and not just on information, in this case, on news. I'm saying this because the article you use as a source speaks of five openings. I can give you specific data that so far only two have been subject to a formal request within the General Directorate of Commerce and Consumption according to established procedure. The first is the request by Leroy Merlin, who wants to open a shopping center in Ourense, which was authorized as early as September 2017; and the second request was from Adif, who, under Law 3/2016, is working on a project to install a 53,000 square metres commercial establishment at the Vigo intermodal station, a file that is currently under processing and has not received any kind of claim at the moment. Tell me about Porto Cabral and you say it's intended to develop with the collaboration of the Galician Union. I think it is appropriate that you explain your claims, because, as you know, this government has already spoken about this project. This government is fully respectful of municipal autonomy and we have always maintained the same criterion, which is the criterion, in addition, of the Vigo Council itself, so that this project is through the urban instruments of the municipality. So do speculations here claiming that the Galician Union intends to do something that has at no time moved -- rather, quite the opposite -- I think it's not appropriate. But in any case, Your Honor, since you want to bring here the debate on the situation of the proximity trade, I think you are honestly wrong about focus, because the real challenges facing the proximity trade are not the differentiation between large surface or small surface, no. Proximity trade faces challenges of specialization, quality, innovation and digitization. And that is where we have to actually offer trade products and shopping experiences that are different and, above all, offer them platforms so that they can compete in the market and so that proximity trade can be differentiated. We have to maintain compliance with the requirements from the point of view of controlling the opening up of new shopping centres, but most importantly, what needs proximity trade, is to gain visibility, to get more customers and, of course, to know that through digitization it can have new opportunities. And Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u393	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u394	...they have to be precisely to help the proximity trade win those opportunities and, therefore, to which they can compete in the digital economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u395	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u396	We fully agree with the last one you said, Counselor. It is clear that the proximity trade needs that. But for that, you have to have development possibilities. It's a reality -- I can assure you --. Zara, when she started with a single store, she had no ability to develop in Galicia. Why? Because the reality is that right now or you have the financial capacity to be in these shopping centers that cover the offer or you have the limited possibilities to develop your innovative initiative, with big business project, etc. It's bound in a huge way. And I'm telling you after talking to a lot of merchants from the areas that are impoverished in the town of Coruña, areas that had previously had a great commercial activity, on San Andrés Street, in the Royal Street. For example, on Real Street I interviewed almost twelve entrepreneurs and they're all saying: either I have money to go to Marineda or my business is dead. It's true that there are many other opportunities, but if you give yourself so many facilities for these large shopping centers, which only then look at the big chains, the big franchises, the small trade doesn't interest you, and, moreover, the small trade doesn't have the ability to pay those rents by square metre they demand. Then, with another sword of Damocles, as happened also in the Coruña, that you set up a shop in Coruña Space or in the Palexco Center and suddenly comes the investment fund, it is not profitable to you and the next day closes and tells you: there you stay, as they authorized another much larger center and much more investment and much better political relations -- it seems to be -- for you to go to the street and lose all the investment you've made and all the development you've made in this place. That's why my question, which you haven't answered, is whether you're doing solid, solvent studies, to determine what impact the shopping malls have already set up, to find out whether you really create jobs or not, whether you create wealth or not, or whether you're just creating precarious jobs, like the previous job,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u397	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u398	...how it was destroyed, what potential for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises actually provide these shopping centers. Did they do those studies? Did they do those studies before the possibility of giving these new authorizations?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u399	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u400	And I apologize for the reference to Porto Cabral. I'm just saying what the promoters say, the companies. Well, something needs to be taken into account what people say. I know, I know you're interested, but that's the way it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u401	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Casal, I in Parliament would rather take into account what you transfer that, of course, is published by the newspapers of any party concerned. That's why I said it's good to focus the debate from the point of view in this case of the government's own information, in addition, that it has already spoken in that direction. I, at any rate, agree at the bottom of the debate, I think that is where we have to work together from the Government, in collaboration with the parliamentary groups, to offer the proximity trade new solutions in this new digital economy, so that they can actually be competitive and develop quality employment. I think we have to place reality from the point of view of commerce in Galicia as it is. I told you that, indeed, in this legislation, two autonomous commercial authorisations have been granted, two. They were a total of 12,500 square meters. That's the reality. Leroy Merlin, Ourense, and Gadisa, Lugo. And let's see: there was no objection and no claim on the part of the municipalities concerned or on the part of the neighbouring municipalities. A reference. Second reference. You're talking about 39 shopping malls. Right. But let's look at this: Galicia, within the Spanish ensemble, has 5.8% of the total area of shopping centres across Spain, 5.8%, the same percentage as our population. But I'll give you a third date. In Galicia there are 1,991 businesses in this kind of area, which also generate jobs. In particular, there are 36,924 establishments in detail, in total. This means that these trades represent 5.4% of the whole sector, 5.4%. So I think we have to dimension what we're talking about, and so I think there's a reality in that sense where we're going to be totally strict in compliance with the regulations to ensure that any initiative actually meets the criteria of the law, but the reality is that the focus we have to put on how to make the proximity trade competitive. And so, Mr Casal, we need to talk in this Parliament about the digital economy, about the relationship of the digital economy with the proximity trade and how this government is already taking measures, in particular EUR 15 million to promote digital trade, and how we can continue to support these small businesses so that they can be competitive in a context where the important thing is physical trade and not so much the dimension of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u403	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Eva Solla Fernández, by G. P. de En Marea, on the assessment of the Galician Council regarding the possible appointment of the current Deputy Director-General of Pharmacy as a high-ranking position of the Ministry of Health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u404	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u405	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The first criminal case opened in Spain for deaths supposedly related to health cuts has been in Galicia, which has been in force, and since then, since you have restricted access to hepatitis C treatments and since these people were charged, there has been no single gesture or political measure that indicates that you recognized the errors and were repentant and repentant. Unfortunately, last month we were aware that the Ministry of Health intended to appoint the then Deputy Director General of Pharmacy, accused, Carolina González-Criado, for the Deputy General of the Ministry of Health, begging the current chief of Quality of Medicine. This, which was known through the media, which contrasted with the Ministry's own sources by knowing precisely the resignation of this person to his current position, justifying that he had to carry out a study on the pharmaceutical area after Holy Week vacations, seemed to us a scandal and an insult to the victims and the victims' families. You know that it wasn't until the Ministry's approach plan that the Council decided to take some kind of treatment-proportional measure. You also know that, before the first indictment, the first thing Mr. President of Galicia did is say that the complaint was going to be filed. They're almost two years away from that imputation and the reality is that instruction is already being completed, and I believe, no matter what happens, that not with very good results surely for Galician Union itself. But we have focused on since the beginning, Counsellor, in that, regardless of what happened to that judicial cause, that all can follow different paths, there were political responsibilities that since the beginning they made us demand the resignation of these people, because from the beginning it was quite obvious -- and I don't want to remember the plenary session at which it was voted against to give the hepatitis C treatments and people were crying out from this plenary -- that as you were behaving in Galicia was not correct and that delaying the treatments had obvious prejudices. Despite the fact that this week, last week, the Ministry has left behind, just when we put this question on the agenda of the plenary, we want to keep this question so that you can pronounce yourself, because we are very afraid that you may be tempted to put this person back in some leadership position at the Health Council. And, therefore, in view of this situation, which has been confirmed by sources of the Ministry and on which, fortunately, by the pressure of the Hepatitis Platform, if it has gone back, we want it to be worth our opinion to the Counsellor, that possible appointment, to know also what they will do before possible appointments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u406	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health advisor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, has the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u407	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam. I'm going to read the question, because the truth is, nothing was said about the question. Di: What valuation does Galician Union make about the possible appointment of Carolina González-Criado? It is surprising to have to respond to something "possible", which, as you know, would be to give an answer about something that could happen. I'll give an answer about facts, about realities, and not about possible realities, so I have to clarify that in the Health Council we have no record of that supposed appointment, of what you're talking about, of the person who held the post of Deputy Director General of the Sergas Pharmacy until recent dates. The only thing we are aware of is a request from the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality for this professional, who was the Deputy Director General of Pharmacy of Sergas, to work together in the analysis of the recommendations established in the review report of the Court of Auditors of the economic activity related to the pharmaceutical area, a collaboration requested on the basis of his knowledge and his proven professional competence: licensed in Pharmacy by the University of Navarra, specialist in hospital pharmacy, in professional practice since 1997, participation in committees as a voice of the National Pharmacy Speciality Committee of Hospitalry and Primary Care, member designated on behalf of the Autonomous Community of Galician Medicines Committee of the Ministry of Health, member appointed on behalf of the Autonomous Community of the Pharmacy Committee of the National Health System, member appointed on behalf of the Community of the Safety Committee of the Human Rights Committee of the Spanish Ministry of Medicines and SanitaryProducts ,Vice- President of the Office of the Food and Food Branch of the Office of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States ofAmerica , the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States ofHealth , the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of America and the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America and the America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of America of the America of America of theAmerica , the America ofAmerica , theAmerica , the America of America of America of America of America of America of America ofAmerica , theAmerica , theAmerica , the America of America of the America and the America and the America of the America of America of the America of America of America of Americaof As a result, there is no other situation than the one mentioned. In order to achieve this collaboration, the professional asked for the termination of his sub-director position on a voluntary basis, because he wanted to change the scope of work. This is a professional framework, a professional experience, and the Ministry believes that this person was ready to do this job. Despite what the media or the media say or the back run that says you don't know what, walk after what, what's very clear is that the only thing they want is what you spoke about right at the beginning of this intervention or that you want to go for something else. You want to go on the political theme of a very good performance by the Health Council, which was of the first health services that quickly dealt with the new treatments for hepatitis C patients, which, thanks to that, today we have a cure in more than 97% of these patients. In a disease that sentenced the patients to death, today Galicia was one of the first communities that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u408	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u409	... invested in this therapy. And, of course, this is a magnificent professional from the Greek health system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u410	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. You have the floor to reply to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u411	Thank you, President. I think from the back run you know a little more, Mr. Health Counsellor. But, well, he has missed a point in Mrs. Carolina Gómez-Criado's curriculum, which is the charge for alleged reckless murder and alleged prevarication. And as I've already told you, you're already finishing the course of the trial and you see that two years later you're still defending this person to take office despite the implications he might have -- I say -- at the judicial level, but obviously he has at the political level. You keep it there, instead of giving it up. All right, I assume you didn't consult the Ministry of Health at all and you had no idea that you were going to put her in that sub-heading. We're used to the fact that since the Central Government, we haven't consulted the Galician Union too much for anything. But at least you did know that request for cessation, precisely to do that job. And I understand, so you just told me, that it seems normal to you that a person -- I repeat -- accused, in the first open case against a government for cuts in health, with the cause of six deaths, in which, in addition, of course, there were more than clear signs and the Prosecutor's office recommended that one should open trial in this case, in which, in addition, he has documented the modification of official documents, precisely to modify the dates of treatment, it is a very serious circumstance that he picked up the prosecutor's office himself -- we'll see that he dictates the judge; of course, we do not know him -- in spite of all that, Counsellor, despite all this evidence of the suffering of these people, you can swallow a person in those conditions to assume a job in an direction or in the elaboration of a document for the Ministry of Health. It seems to me an insult, I honestly tell you, and it seems absolutely incredible, and I would like to, because we are and that you don't consult anything, at least tell us what you're going to do now because you have no responsibility within the Health Council, whether you're going to give it back or whether we're going to continue with this number until there's a judgment on the part of the judge. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u412	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Government's replica shift, the councillor has the word, Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u413	Unfortunately, we are used to it, Madam, that she is lying more than she speaks. Mind, 'cause that lady's researched in predignities. At the end of the day he says he's in education. Throughout the procedure it has been shown that there was no delay in treatment and that, of course, this woman has no decision on the indication. What he does is coordinate what professionals do, the best professionals in the healthcare system, by valuing each of the indications, and, in any case, and only for safety reasons, not to give a treatment, for safety reasons, and not how you speak. This person, this magnificent professional of our system, has spent many hours working for all Sergas patients, doing a job in which -- as I say -- at the instruction stage, if he is proving that the performance was perfect; neither delay nor denial for reasons that were not of safety for the patient, the only -- minimum, by the way -- very few denials, and always for security reasons. [[Applause]] But since we started working on new hepatitis C treatments, more than 6,030 patients have been treated in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Proportionally, we are from the communities that most patients are treating -- as I say -- with great success, because 97% of the patients are left with the virus; therefore, they do not progress this disease. Obviously, the sequels that are years and years old can't be reversed, but that virus can still act. So at that stage of instruction, which, unfortunately, as you say, has been more than two years -- it's true; the slowness we have unfortunately is so, because it should have been seen much faster -- this person continues to do a great job, because he's a magnificent specialist, and of course the only one who deserves the professional of the Galician Health Service gives Carolina González-Criado, on our part, is to thank him for the work he has done and what he's going to continue to develop in the Service for all the Greeks. Thank you very much
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u414	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Eva Solla Fernández, by G. P. de En Marea, about the follow-up the Health Council is following in relation to the degree of compliance of Law 5/2015, of June 26, of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u415	To put the question, you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u416	Thank you, President. Counselor, you are hostage to your words, and we'll see you in a few months. Let's ask him now... We don't know. [[Murmurs.]] See if the average vice president on the strike of Justice to solve something, at least do something positive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now we're going to talk about something that is relevant to us and what I think we deserve to remember a person who recently died, Mr. Luis Montes, who was a fighter for public health and, of course, why people in our country could have access to a worthy death. On June 26, 2015, this Parliament adopted a rule, which was a pioneer in the rest of autonomous communities -- and in which some people were, in addition, in that presentation -- and they made an effort to reach agreement on the five existing groups in Parliament at that time and the rule was adopted unanimously. In our understanding, of course, it left out other relevant aspects, such as euthanasia, but that we have already said at the time that it was obvious that they could not be discussed here, because they need the amendment of the Criminal Code in order to be discussed, and yet within the norm they included relevant aspects in which parliamentary groups we have dealt. It's almost three years since the adoption of this rule -- it was in June 2015 -- and yet compliance is quite scarce, to our opinion. Today we wanted to ask you about this circumstance here, because we asked in writing to the Health Council itself, and the answer that moved us in March was simply about the composition of the Galician Palliative Care Commission, which actually comes within the body of the law, but the most relevant aspects of the law compliance you have not responded to. And I have to remember, therefore, the overallity of the rights that contain the norm itself, but by putting the most relevant ones on the table -- because I wouldn't be given time -- those that come in Article 11 and Article 9, and that were the result of a job within the presentation itself. Article 12 explicitly refers to the right of patients to receive comprehensive palliative care and to the choice of home to receive them. And I think we agree there, that palliative care can be provided in various services. Article 11 refers to the patient's right to receive comprehensive palliative care of pain treatment, and article 9 refers to the dignity of these people. In all this, the need for physical, human and material resources that are not currently available to sick people was implicit. We're talking about the shortage of personnel in the Home Hospitalization Service, we're talking about the failure of the individual bed for people in terminal situations, and we're talking about other aspects which now do not give me time, but which, of course, are contained in those articles. We ask him to reply today, because they have not done so in writing, about the overallity of law and its compliance. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u417	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u418	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Law 5/2015 of 26 June 2015 on the rights and guarantees of terminally ill persons, adopted unanimously by all parliamentary groups in this Parliament of Galicia, establishes the rights of persons with terminally ill care needs. The law is essentially based on the principles of patient autonomy and full care for these people, and it collects people's rights to the death process, the duties and rights of health professionals and health professionals who care for terminally ill people and the guarantees of health institutions and institutions. The Health Council and the Galego Health Service continue to develop and improve palliative quality care at the end of life, as reflected in the Sergas 2020 Strategy, geared to the structure of services to patients' needs and the improvement of attention to chronicity, the improvement of palliative care. Palliative care is the responsibility of the entire health network: primary care, hospital care, palliative care and home hospitalization units, and not only of the specific palliative care devices. Currently, all patients in need of palliative care are cared for according to their needs, either with conventional resources of primary or hospital care the most complex. In our autonomous community there is an extensive network of resources specific to palliative care in all hospitals in the Galician Health Service, which include both palliative care units and home hospital units. Training for professionals is also important. In recent years, numerous training activities have been carried out, directed to health professionals in the Galego Health Service, to train them in the care of these patients, both in their identification and in the control of symptoms and communication. A new edition of the basic course of palliative care is scheduled for the second half of 2018. For this purpose, Decree 181/2016 of 9 December was published and Decree 181/2010 of 21 October was amended, and therefore the Galaga Committee on Palliative Care is created. With this new composition, medical and nursing staff, internal medicine, social work staff, medical and medical personnel and primary care pharmacists, medical professionals in the field of hospital clinical psychology, medical staff in nursing units of palliative, medical and medical care units of the 061, Hado Nursing, physicians and doctors of oncology, doctors and pediatric physicians, neurology doctors and a representative of the Social Policy Council. This new Galician Committee on Palliative Care was formed last June 23, 2017. The aim of this commission is to promote the right of patients to receive comprehensive palliative care, according to their needs and coordinated among all professionals. The Galician Committee for Palliative Care is working on the design of technical committees assistance from palliative care as well as its functions and composition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u419	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u420	...so that they are the reflection of the commission in the health areas. The Committee's next meeting will present the various proposals on this subject, prepared by its members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u421	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u422	Counselor, that last part is practically the one that answered me in writing, and the reality is that it's a series of articles that I just read to you and that are not being complied with, and that's why we ask. And I'm telling you, because Article 9.2 was one of the ones we've been discussing most in the presentation I've been in, and it actually says that health centres and institutions will guarantee the patient in a terminal situation, which should be treated under hospitalization regime, the best conditions, including the socio-sanitary scope of the right to stay in an individual room, unless the exceptional circumstances justify it. There are virtually no hospitals on the network in Greece. We could certainly exclude some palliative care units, but, as you say, in the rest -- not all of them are in palliative care units -- this is not being guaranteed. How can the rights contained in this law be guaranteed with the shortage of professionals? And as for home hospital services, in Monforte there's a strike right now. In Verín there's only one team to take care of all the people, and only in a neighborhood immediately close to the hospital. In the case of Cee there are only two equipments for a 20-mile radius. How can these conditions be guaranteed the rights contained in this law? And there's something more relevant, the socio-sanitary aspect, about which, of course, you will also have something to say to the social policy advisor, how are you guaranteeing it? These rights are not being guaranteed in the homes of seniors in our community. Not in the public, but in private we have knowledge of totally painful situations in which they are not even respecting the sedations of terminally ill people. So I understand that this compliment you here today should be noticed. It is not possible with the absence of current means to guarantee these situations, and it is obvious that the individual rooms are not being given since the adoption of the rule itself. But the worst thing is that we don't even know what's going on in the homes of older people in our country and dependent people. Counsellor, it's a sensitive matter, it's a very serious matter, and I think that approval...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u423	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u424	... -- I'm finished now -- precisely with the House's unanimity, it obliges at least the minimum requirement of this rule to be met. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u425	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Government's replica shift, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u426	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to start by saying it's being fulfilled, precisely. What you say is not fulfilled I say that it is being fulfilled, but I think we clearly understand that there are often differences between health and social, and that is why in the Health Act this position was strengthened with the interdepartmental commission between health and social policy. That's why the functional integration of these patients is important, and that's why the committee is also a representative of Social Policy. It's very, very important that it be. But I'm going to give you the structural data we have, structural but also personnel. At this point, the palliative care units are being adapted to those described in the present law; thus, of the 100 rooms destined for palliative care, eighty-eight are individual, but individual that can convert any double we have at this time into individual, but of the hundreds that theoretically are exclusively dedicated to palliatives eighty-eight are individual. In our community there are currently seven palliative care units, located in the largest hospitals. In addition, the Salnés Hospital also opened a four-bed unit integrated into the specialization units. In all the projects that we are currently launching -- the expansion that took place in Ourense, or in Ferrol, or the Great Montecelo, that we will talk about in a moment -- in all of them, precisely one of the most important content was to increase the number of individual habits. It's something we think must be, not just palliatives, but for any kind of patient who needs it, in any specialty. This year 2018 we have forty-three hospital units at home, four hundred a primary care unit, grouped into one hundred forty-six services, who care for patients with palliative care needs. The hospital units of palliative care and home hospitalization of the hospital centers of the Galego Health Service have a provision of fifty-nine doctors and one hundred thirty-five nurses, to care for people with palliative needs. Galicia also makes, by order of the Ministry and through Aváliate, the updating of the Guide to Clinical Practice of Palliative Care, which will be a reference to palliative care throughout Spain. The Galego Health Service continues to work in favour of palliative care for patients who need it, by developing in the coming months of the Palliative Care Assistance Strategy and evaluating and improving the quality of care in each health area. In this strategy, the main lines of action are established for people with palliative needs. Within Sergas' humanization plan, which is an architectural plan, but I also say of staff, the last units we've worked on were, for example, in the Mexeiro or Naval Hospital, two palliative units that I think are the best in Spain, and we're going to follow, because that's the line of work: humanization in all hospitalization, but especially in palliative care. Therefore, the Galician Health Service continues to work in favour of attention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u427	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u428	...the palliative of the galleys and the galleys that need it through the development of the galleys palliative care plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u429	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and ten other Members of the People's Party of Galicia, on the progress and developments made in recent months in the project for the construction of the Grand Hospital of Montecelo, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u430	To put the question, Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u431	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Counselor. Well, after this apocalyptic vision that some members of the opposition to public health see, we want to value health, and I think we all have to be extremely proud of the health system we have. It's not a health system of the People's Party, it's a health system of everyone and a pointing health system, in which at the largest time of crisis the Galician Union was doing -- at least there were -- it was new hospitals, new expansions and new health centers. And that's what I want to ask Mr. Counsellor, in particular of the Grand Montecelo project. Well, here we asked you a few months ago, as this Grand Montecelo project was moving forward, we talked about asking for and adjudicating the space plan and the functional plan, a plan that was made in an exemplary and modeled manner. A model of participation in which not only the users participated, but also the health professionals, and even several types of surveys could be done by different channels of communication, and I believe that this is a model to follow towards the future and exemplary, is the first case we know that it acted this way to be a hospital of all; therefore, from that point of view I want to congratulate you, Counsellor, for this process led up to now. The next step that knowledge was that in the CEO of 9 August last year, the contract notice was published for the contract of the service of the sectoral project of supramunicipal impact of the project for the reform and extension of the hospital, and the drafting of the basic project and the execution and optional direction of the first phase of the construction of the Gran Montecelo. Well, Counsellor, what we want to know now is what progress has been made in the last few months in the Grand Montecelo project, and also, if possible, that you can tell us what deadlines are handled for the bidding of this extension of the hospital. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u432	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. You have the word of Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, if it's true, we have a project that was demanded by the citizenship of the Pontevedra area. For years there were discrepancies, different concepts of hospital care that could be created in that area. And a couple of years ago, at the end of this agreement, I believe that a great social and political agreement, of all the areas in that great area of Pontevedra province, to believe in a common project of all the Pontevedras, which is the so-called Hospital Gran Montecelo, which passes by step -- as the deputy says -- is becoming materialized. Now we can all see a picture of the hospital that we want and that will be a reality in a short time. With the Grand Montecelo, the pontiffs will have a wider, more humane public hospital capable of meeting the needs of the next 50 years; of health care, ultimately, more modern, agile, close to the user and to the latest technology. Precisely, the spaces of humanization I think it's what stands out in the last projects; the amplitude in all the spaces. In care spaces and in all services: from emergency to day hospitals and also hospitalization, with an increasing percentage of individual rooms. The commitment we've acquired is to take steps to prove that the Great Montecelo is a definitive bet, and we're moving forward. Both citizens and professionals have come very close to this project, and logically we have to report on their progress. This hospital, modeled by its professionals, with the attendance of 300 workers from the centers at 120 working meetings, and with 2,400 surveys that brought citizens closer to it, will have more welcoming spaces in the most sensitive areas, such as dialysis, the day hospital, oncology, palliative care or the maternal-child zone. As I say, we kept moving, and so, on February 16, 2018 -- a few weeks ago -- the contract was signed for the drafting of the Grand Montecelo project. This adjudication of the project for the reform and expansion of the Gran Montecelo hospital, drafting of the basic project of execution and optional direction of phase I of the works lies in an ITU composed of a team of highly experienced hospital architects, Chile 15; an architecture and urbanism office that has great experience in planning, logically also very important; and a engineering company, very important today by the number of facilities so sensitive that the hospital has. We took another step with the presentation on April 9 of the editorial team of the Gran Montecelo's sectoral plan and preliminary draft. And we also present the image of the future Gran Montecelo hospital for the next few years. Once we have developed and approved the sectoral plan, developed and supervised the Grand Montecelo project, we expect that next year we will bid the work and start its execution, which will have an investment of more than 120 million euros for the new building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u434	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. For the reply, Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u435	Thank you, Counselor. We welcome the steady progress. And I say we celebrate because in spite of all these facts that are being demonstrated with normative instruments, with projects and announcements in the CEO, which is how you have to speak -- and in fact it's how you're talking about the Galician Union -- there's a collective that goes out saying, "We don't trust the Union or the Sergas," "we know the policy of the PP, designed to dismantle public health." My attention is drawn to these kinds of statements when you're seeing the strong and firm bet from your advice, Counselor, to bring this project forward. So I appreciate the information, and I wanted to take advantage of this reply to ask you if you can give us, as far as possible, a little more about the content of this hospital project, the services, the subject of beds and, above all, the units you're going to have in the service portfolio. Tell us, please, that you can hear those people who don't trust the Council of Galicia and don't trust a project that you see is moving forward. So, I think it's important that you know what the contents of the future Gran Montecelo are going to be, which is going to be -- I'm completely convinced -- a big hospital. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u436	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. For the replica shift, the Government has the floor of the Health Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today we can present the image of that magnificent hospital for all Members, especially for someone who could not be in Pontevedra that day. This is the image of Pontevedra hospital. [[Mr Vázquez Almuña shows you an image of Members and Members.]] A hospital fully integrated in the landscape but also with amplitude, luminosity, where spaces are fundamental to improving. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] This is the health that the citizens of Galicia are asking for and we are doing thanks to the efforts of all the Greeks, considering health the most important element, the most important service, of Western society. The Grand Montecelo Hospital will not only be larger, with 120 more beds, but will also guarantee attention to the best available technology, shaping Pontevedra's public health. More individual rooms -- as we commented --, not only in palliatives but in any hospitalization needed. It will have 92% more rooms and emergency stations that facilitate the work and respect the privacy of the patient; another of the requests that citizens make in these surveys: privacy and space. With 57% more than the total room -- as I said before -- that they would be individual, compared to 36% that they were before. Or with 49% more posts in the day hospital, ranging from 109 to 162. It changes the way we work: more outpatient spaces, less hospital spaces. Thus, in the area of Pediatrics, children will have playrooms, libraries, schools or movies. And the service portfolio will implement an important impulse: with a new pediatric ICU; with a new work unit; recovery of the obstetric block like the one in the last hospitals where we started this activity; with a new nuclear medicine area; or with the creation of a unique space for multidisciplinary endoscopy units and biological diagnosis, among other improvements. To make all these improvements happen, the Gran Montecelo Hospital will increase by 50% on its surface from 79,500 square meters to 118,000 square meters. As you can see, the processing is going at a good pace, so we hope to fulfill the schedule that involves that functional plan. This team, this UTE that has won this contest, is already in meetings with the Town Hall, Urbanism and the Environment to try to speed up the corresponding deadlines. And, as I say, we're going to continue working to move from step to step and that soon the citizens of Pontevedra can see already as a reality, after so many years, the best hospital they've had in many years, but, above all, that places them at the level of any great city in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u438	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and two other Members, by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the causes of the expansion to the municipality of Muxia of the Guatemalan spaghetti pest of the potato
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u439	To put the question, Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u440	Thank you, President. Counsellor, good afternoon. The plague of the Guatemalan elbow to this day should be controlled, but the plague continues to spread. Counsellor, the measures they have implemented have failed. Why did they fail? For two fundamental reasons. On the one hand, it took them to react; and on the other hand, the management that they carried out on the plague, factors that make me say it was a failed forecast. In 2015 Junta knew of the presence of the elbow in the municipalities of Ferrol, Narón and Neda, in the district of Ferrolterra, publishing in the Official Journal of Galicia of November 13, 2015, a resolution establishing the areas demarcated by the existence of the pest and phytosanitary measures within the demarcated areas. Yes, they applied the measures, but measures that were not effective, since the plague ended up extending to ten other municipalities of the district of Ferrolterra and 18th of the region of the Navy were shining. Report published in the DOG of 6 February 2017. The proliferation and extension of the Guatemalan elbow led to the adoption of a resolution by the Galician Union, published in the DOG of 10 March 2017, in which planting, for at least two years, was banned in the infested area and delimited a buffer zone, with less restrictive control measures, in neighbouring municipalities. Between May 2nd and June 16th, the gathering campaign of the affected potato was carried out. But on May 24, you yourself, Counselor, announced in the media that the plague of the Guatemalan potato elbow was being controlled in the infested municipalities of the province of Coruña. On Friday, October 20, it was published in the DOG that the county of Cariño, in the province of Coruña, was an affected county. And a month ago, it was published in the DOG that the municipality of Muxia, in the province of Coruña, too, was affected by the elbow, this council that is away from the other thirty-two municipalities for over a hundred kilometers. Neighbors and neighbours in this area must comply with the rules of the resolution published in March 2017. As of April 6, the resolution establishing the deadlines for the declaration of the existence of plantations and planted surfaces was published in the DOG, which is being done right now, and seems to be being made in a chaotic manner. The plague devours the potatoes and leaves many wounded, as we all know at this point. The vast majority of them grow for self-consumption, and this is where there is a greater lack of knowledge of the subject, and a minority are professional producers. Therefore, the conclusions are that the plague is not being controlled, that it is not being stopped and that the concern in the border areas is increasing to those affected. That's why I ask you, what were the causes of the plague of Guatemalan lameness to a municipality that was not affected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u441	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. The rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u442	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all. First of all, thank you for the question, no doubt. And, on the other hand, I also thank the Director-General of Gandery and Agriculture for asking for a first-hand appearance in Commission 7 to let them know how they are developing the different jobs that are being carried out in Muxia, as in the rest of the municipalities. The following criteria are unique and purely technical, and they are the same criteria here as in Asturias. I mean, if Galicia fails, it also fails Asturias. I'm talking about political or non-political synergies. They're the same technical criteria, but even more powerful in the Galician case. I want to thank, first of all, the collaboration of all the neighbours; that is, of all the municipalities that are affected, which are infested or are buffer zones. And in that sense, I also thank the neighbours of Muxía, for I can assure you by first hand that there is absolutely nothing about chaos; there is perfect coordination and the neighbours are the main witnesses. Many times it's better than listening to a single voice, which may be the voice of a mayor, we approach each of the peasants who live there to give us first-hand information. So, thanks for making an effort -- and they're also aware that we're doing it with an end, and that end is that it's not going to expand -- and it's also going to be a change. Change because we collect the potato for seed, because we enter each of the private stores and have no doubt at the time the technicians go there to do the analytics or remove the potato; but the one that is planted proceeds the harvest, with which the effort is double. Actually -- you said it yourself -- it's detected in Galicia in 2015. From the moment it's detected in Galicia -- it comes from the Canary Islands, with which it's been a long time -- let's get to work. The first work we have developed is on November 3, a resolution; a resolution demarcating the areas where it is detected; it prohibits the marketing and exit of tubers in these areas where it has been detected; it uses only and exclusively certified pest-free seeds; traps are placed with adult pheromones and phytosanitary treatments are made. And it comes in 2016 and we continue with the work; a work that is being developed -- believe me -- successfully, because if we didn't do the work done -- I say, always under technical parameters -- we would have extended it not only in all of Galicia, but also in the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u443	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u444	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u445	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u446	Thank you, President. Counselor, something had to be done, because otherwise we would be wrong. So, if it doesn't work at all, they'll have to change those technical methods, because after you give it by control, it was when Cariño and Muxia expanded; and Muxia is not a municipality that's in the perimeter of the municipalities affected by the province of Coruña or the Navy shine. It will be very important for the General Director-General's appearance, because the other day we took to Commission 7 a non-legislative proposal to investigate the causes of the spread of Guatemalan elbow plague and intensify the improvement of pest controls, and the members of that committee of the parliamentary group that supports the Government voted against, also saying that Friday we would have a meeting of the General Director to inform us of this. [[Applause]] As for if management is chaotic, I'd tell you that if you went through the municipality of Muxia and around, where you're waiting to see her, but, given the events, I don't think that visit will happen. So I repeat to you that the plague is not being controlled, that it is not being stopped and that the concern in the border areas is increasing to those affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u447	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. Mr. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor for the Government's replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u448	Thank you very much, President. Quietness is what we should have right now and not disappointment, especially those areas that live from potato cultivation. I think you're putting everything on the table. He thinks he's putting himself even more than the royal decree he's issued on his day. It is carried out from Galicia research, we have experimental plots, dedicated areas, and, of course, the order will soon come out to compensate those who have been affected. Regardless of this, I'll tell you that in 2016 about 800 traps were placed, 16,000 individuals were captured and 50,000 kilos of potatoes were collected. In 2017, the number of traps placed was doubled, over 1,500; 9,500 individuals were captured, 40 % less, but there are municipalities where 90 % less were captured; and 315,000 kilograms of potatoes were collected. The collection device consisted of 20 vans, 40 operators, 2 technicians, 2 provincial coordinators, and the investment was 1.3 million euros. I mean, there was an effort. And, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely tell you to politicize this plague -- besides, I think the only complaint is one mayor -- the only thing you're going to achieve is to devert a technical work that develops completely seriously. Galicia and Asturias are working together in the same direction, using the same instruments; it's more, the buffer zone rather than being a kilometer, as the real decree states, in the case of Galicia is 5 kilometers. The only difference is that in the neighbouring community it is acting from institutional loyalty, which is what should be done here, allowing technicians to develop their work, the same thing that has happened -- I have to say -- in Galicia until now. But, more so, I'll tell you that in this county we've even made more effort than in other municipalities, because we've made available to you technically so that all sorts of requests could be collected. I mean, the effort of the council is the effort that all the Greeks and the Greeks deserve. And, of course, it was put on the table as much as possible, from the control by the Civil Guard and the Autonomic Police so there was no transportation of any kind in infected areas and buffer zones, but it's true that we don't have a civilian guard or a police officer for each car to control the trunks, with which the investigation is more than clear. From that point on, we must all appeal to the prudence and awareness that in infected areas and buffer zones there should not be any type of tuber, in particular potato, and so we will all be much better off. What I can tell you is that since the Galician Council meeting and the Middle Rural Council, we are being clear, transparent and agile in information; and next week it will be the director who gives them more details in attendance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-04-25-DSPG069.u449	Thank you very much, Counselor. You know that the last question was welcomed by a letter sent by the Galician Union. So, when we finish the agenda items, we raise the session. Thank you very much.
