ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting, with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for an oral reply by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the contribution of the Greek Government to the self-government of Galicia, after nine years without achieving the transfer of any competition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning. Mr Feijóo, allow me to begin by congratulating you, because you have a record that was difficult to achieve: ten years of president, zero competences; ten years, zero competences. And this pair of balance balances is summed up by the recentralizing urge of the People's Party, which you have enthusiastically supported. And now your head of line, Mr. Pablo Casado, treads on the accelerator of decentralization and announces an offensive to take our skills and give them to the state, and wants to start with education. I quote the president of the People's Party: "It cannot happen that you are urged by the endogamy of selecting teachers for your language.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh End of date. And he looks good to you, he told us. Look, you say you support a centralized teacher selection process across Spain. Of course, Mr. Feijóo, what a scandal! it will not be that in Galicia we have teachers and teachers who know our language and who can teach in English. I'd just be missing, of course I would. [[Applause]] With this political questioning, it's not surprising that your self-government curriculum has only two lines, zero competencies in ten years, and you're embracing a recentralization that's already affluent. The state decides how much we can spend, the state decides how many teachers and doctors we can hire, the state decides what taxes we pay and then makes an unfair distribution by taking away the resources we need in order to be able to finance public services. Far from moving forward, with you we'll go back. Its balance in self-government is so sharp that it makes us lose political weight and opportunities to improve people's lives. It's so lame, Mr. Feijóo, that he couldn't even get the PP to allow the debate on the AP-9 transfer. His balance is the veto, and we've had a few more beaches that are already a scam. At the BNG if we trust this country, and we want to have the ability to decide, tools to improve people's lives. And you're in time to change your course. Let's make three proposals. First, announce, now that the People's Party is in opposition, that they will vote in favour of the transfer of AP-9 in the debate that will take place next week in Congress. Second, leave behind Mr. Casado's recentralizing offensive; make it clear that the professor will be selected here and not in Madrid and that he will know the language of this country. And thirdly, he defends a Welsh agenda to demand more competences, such as traffic, trains, airports, scholarships or a new framework of work relations that allows us to end precariously. These, Mr. Feijóo, are some of the proposals we make to him. It surprises us for once, responds and ceases to oppose the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u5	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, for your question. It's twenty-four hours to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution. I understand there's a money order from the BNG, because what you want is to continue to develop Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution. That would be, Your Honor, something to celebrate in this Parliament. I invite you and I to meet together tomorrow at the Congress of Deputies to celebrate that 40th anniversary and, on the basis of that constitution, to request the constitutional and statutory transfers belonging to Galicia. Mrs Pontón, would you agree with that proposal? Mrs. Pontón, is BNG an autonomist or anti-autonomist party? Is the BNG in agreement with the Constitution or against the Constitution? Is the BNG in favour of the Autonomy Statute or against the Autonomy Statute? Those are the questions, Mrs. Pontón. If you agree with the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government, we develop it; if you are against it, you do not raise questions of Pharisees. Mrs. Pontón, a few weeks ago in Catalonia — as you claimed — thousands of teachers, thousands of students, thousands of officials, thousands of health personnel have protested before Parliament. The answer from the Catalan Generalitat is that you don't have to be distracted by issues that aren't essential. He added: "Cataluña has to decide its future to escape the strangulation to which the State has subjected it." Mrs. Pontón, do you think that teaching, education, health, social services is not important in an autonomous community? Do you agree with the People's Party of Galicia, or do you agree with the Republican Left Party and the PCCAT party, anti-autonomist, independentist and republican? Mrs. Pontón, tell us exactly where you are. We know where we are: defending Galician self-government. Today Galicia, Euskadi and Navarre can say that during the last ten years it has really been the only autonomous communities that have maintained 100 percent of their self-government. Neither Catalonia, nor any other autonomous community that was not Euskadi, Navarra and Galicia, maintained their self-government during the decade of the crisis, because they were completely intervened, fully intervened, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] And that's why you should feel proud of this people, of the Greeks, of the Greeks, that we were able to keep our self-government intact during the decade of the economic crisis, while the vast majority of the autonomous communities, no autonomous community of the general regime, was able to maintain its self-government intact, because it was intervened by the state from the beginning to the end. Mrs. Pontón, that's our balance. You ask me to complete what is the People's Party's proposal and the position of the People's Party on the freeway of the Atlantic. It will be up to the People's Party and the People's Parliamentary Group, no doubt. You have no doubt. I am sorry to tell you, sir, that in this Parliament the BNG voted against the transfer of the motorway and this parliamentary group has always voted in favour of the transfer of the motorway. That's the first consideration. [[Applause]] And the second consideration, Mrs Pontón — I regret to give you bad news — is that the People's Party and the majority parliamentary group in the Courts, both in Congress and in the Senate, will vote in favour of handling the transfer of the motorway. That's, without a doubt, Your Honor... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u7	...a news I want to share with you. [[Applause]] As we give the nationalists a joy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u9	...to process a transfer from which you have been against, I hope you give us a joy and finally say that the BNG is in favour of the Spanish Constitution and the Galician Autonomy Statute. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u10	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u11	Look, Mr. Feijóo, the only turn here is that of the People's Party on the right, and, by the way, approaching an extreme racist, xenophobic, homophobic and ancient right. [[Applause]] That's the only turn there is, Mr. Feijóo. Look, if you need the support of the BNG to exercise as President of the Galician Union and claim what is ours, you will have, all the support of the BNG, to defend Galician interests. See if they don't rule in Madrid now wake up from their sleep, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Look, what BNG defends is that Galicia is a nation, that we have the right to decide our future and that no decision taken forty years ago can deprive us of that right. And what are you defending, what have you been defending for these years? The decentralization that has taken place in the state. [[Applause]] Because look, the self-government of this country has not been maintained here, Mr Feijóo. You are responsible for the greatest attack on self-government that has taken place in recent years, because you have launched recentralizing laws that you have applauded, because you have been allowed to load one of the most important instruments that our self-government had, which were the boxes, Mr. Feijóo, to hand them over to a Venezuelan businessman who is selling the business shares that we had in the boxes for example, doing business with Audasa, and you with an accomplice silence that you weren't able to say either mu. [[Applause]] And look, I'm sorry to tell you that who prevented the transfer of AP-9 so far was the People's Party, I'm sorry to say, because the PP has already voted against the Congress of the AP-9 Transfer Deputies in 2015. If now, thanks to a motion of censure that disarms them from the government, thanks to the support of nationalism, they vote in favour and lift the veto, welcome, Mr Feijóo, because it is absolutely obvious that they are making electoralism, that they have changed their course, and welcome that now at Congress they are going to pass the law that drafted the BNG. I'm sorry to tell you that that law you're going to debate hasn't written it either you or the People's Party. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr Feijóo, your balance sheet for these ten years is zero new transfers, it has not even been able to convene the Joint Transfer Commission, because they have not claimed any new competition for Galicia. Who doesn't believe in this country, Mr. Feijóo? Who defends political power, because we are able to do things right since Galicia, or who really has done all these years the only thing he did was be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u13	...the palm of the People's Party's centralism?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u15	Your Honor, is it embarrassing that we are in favour of discussing the transfer of the motorway? Obviously. [[Murmurs.]] It bothers her, because the BNG never asked for the transfer of the highway to Congress, never, ever. You, who carried the vice president of the transfers when they only ruled in Galicia, never asked for the transfer of the highway, never. [[Murmurs.]] Make it clear, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] It's not good to lie to Parliament and much less lie to yourself, it doesn't make any sense. There you are. He says the only money order... Your Honor, do you mean again that the BNG is a party that is against the Spanish Constitution? Yeah, right? All right, let's be clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And is the BNG against the Galician Autonomy Statute? Your Honor, how can we talk about the transfer and self-government of Galicia if you are against the self-government of the country? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's very difficult, Mrs. Pontón, to understand. [[Murmurs.]] It's very difficult, Your Honor, to take a proposal seriously. Look, Your Honor, in the years when you ruled Galicia, you never asked for the transfer of the highway. They were talking about intelligent cooperation. Intelligent cooperation consisted of supporting the Spanish Workers' Socialist Party on land, sea and air. Smart cooperation meant voting rather than transferring the motorway and giving the Central Government four hundred million euros up to 2048 to co-finance the fee of a state highway. Our proposal for self-government is to demand the transfer of the motorway and stop paying the EUR 400 million, at the rate of EUR 7 million annually, which was paid by the BNG and the Socialist Party to the Central Government. That's the big difference, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] It's a substantial difference. The great difference, Your Honor, is that, during the decade of the economic crisis Catalonia, Valencia, Balearic Islands, Andalusia, Castile-A Mancha, Castile-Leon, Stremadura, Cantabria, Asturias, all autonomous communities — except Galicia — of the general regime, had to be intervened by the Central Government. Our proposal is to keep us up, pay what we were supposed to, arrive at the end of the month and be the autonomous community that best pays all the suppliers. Next proposal. Get out of the Finance Facility Fund, go to the markets, because we're a solvency community, and lower the interest rates of Galician public debt, which we've just formally requested from the Ministry of Business. Third proposal, Your Honor. You're talking to me about a series of political parties and a particular political party. I'm sorry, Your Honor, that you don't know exactly what's going on. Look, Your Honor, what makes you think that a party like you, allies of left Republican Catalonia and the evolution of Herri Batasuna, called Bildu, who want to break the Spanish Constitution, who are burning Spanish flags in the streets, who are burning portraits of the head of state, who even a member of his has broken a portrait of the head of state in this Parliament, are better partners, Mrs. Pontón? Look, Your Honor, we're not going to compromise anything that is outside the Constitution, and that's why it's very difficult to deal with the BNG, because you're outside the Spanish Constitution and the Galician Autonomy Statute. It's very difficult, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, the only covenant we have is the pact that comes out of the ballot box, that is, with the Greeks and the Greeks; we have no other covenant. And I'm telling you, Mrs. Pontón, we are in favour of the Spanish Constitution, without trap or cardboard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u17	...from beginning to end. To be in favour of the Spanish Constitution from beginning to end is: first, to defend the unity of the Spanish nation; second, to defend the equality of all Spaniards; and third, to defend the state of autonomy. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry you don't agree on any of these principles. They neither defend the unity of the Spanish nation nor defend the equality of all the Greeks with the rest of the Spaniards, nor defend the state of autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u19	In any case, Mrs. Pontón, whenever the BNG supports a proposal from the People's Party, it will always be with us, and, if we are able to compromise something, too. I'm sorry, Your Honor, that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u20	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u21	...you can't help us at the Congress of Deputies, because the Greeks no longer trust the BNG to be represented in the General Courts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u22	Thank you, thank you. First I forgot to say hello — and I apologize — to the students of the Faculty of Right of the University of Coruña, who accompany us today and who are with your teacher, who went during a parliamentary legislation in this Parliament, Mr Caamaño. Welcome to Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u23	And now it is. The next question arises. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the evolution of social inequality in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u24	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u25	Good morning. Mr President, you will surely agree with me that progress in social inequality is one of the great problems of our time in Galicia, Spain, really in the Western world. And since public responsibility we have to help reduce the causes that cause it, mitigate its manifestations, but also alleviate its consequences. And to put it mildly, I have the feeling, our group has the feeling that you don't have this in your schedule, at least on a priority basis. I'm going to give you some data and also the photos. In Galicia, the 80/20 income distribution index shows a clear trend towards the increase since 2008, according to the INE Living Conditions Survey. It went up from 4.5 to 5.8, 30% increase. Galicia is not the worst of autonomous communities, because the structure for ages, with the smaller weight that youth has here, reduces the impact on social inequality, but the momentum over time is clear, with a very remarkable increase in the level of inequality, and also happens in recovery. And you do this: if we go to the functional distribution of income, the salary of the employees, which was 48% of the income in 2009, is now 42.7%. And the opposite movement happened with the gross surplus of exploitation; this from the quarterly economic accounts of Galicia published by the Galego Institute of Statistics. The income from the capital increases, the income from the work goes back. Those who have the most reinforce their position at the expense of those who only live in their wages. But it also happens that inequality in wages increases. Average wages, in nominal terms, are slightly higher today than at the beginning of the crisis, but internal inequality also increases, according to the INE's Wage Structure Survey. The lowest wages in the 10th percentile in Galicia are lower than in 2008; the highest wages, 90 percentile, have risen by 10%. And this is because the level of precariousness is excessive in entry into the labour market and because those who enter the labour market are more than 70% only up to 1,000 euros per month; those who earn the most in wages know how to protect themselves better. And finally, youth between 18 and 25 years of age has seen their average annual salary reduced by 25% since 2008 to average €6,588 today, and this affects 83,000 employees. And over 56 years until 65 the average wage has increased slightly, 5%. All this according to the labour market and pensions in tax sources. It wasn't a very strong increase over 56 years, but it was enough to widen the pay gap. Therefore, Mr Feijóo, during his years of government social inequality is increasing in Galicia, the owners have improved in the face of the employees, high-wage earners have improved in the face of the precarious workers and the wage deterioration and the youth living condition has become very clear. The rate of risk of poverty under the age of 24 increases by almost three to those older than 65. We still have too many families that have many difficulties to reach by the end of the month, 131,000 with severe lack of material in the latest statistics. I know that not everything depends on you, but the question is also clear: what are you willing to do to substantially reduce the social inequalities that these sources make manifest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u26	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, a few weeks ago the spokesperson for En Marea also asked a question about the inequality and the spokesperson for En Marea and I agreed that the biggest problem of inequality in all regions and in all Western countries is the lack of employment. We've just met the last twelve months, including November, and we can say that Galicia is the second autonomous community where unemployment has dropped most in the last year, the second autonomous community where unemployment has dropped most in the last year. In Galicia, unemployment continues to decline above the average of Spain, almost two and a half points. According to social security affiliations, in Galicia today more than 20,700 new social security affiliates a year ago. And according to EPA, that you always complained and that now lately no longer talks about it, with the third trimester of the known data, unemployment in Galicia continues to be below the average of Spain more than two points, and EPA is what you are saying is: first, that we recovered the unemployment rate of 2009, and second, that in the last year more than 24,000 jobs were created in Galicia. That's the data. On inequality, Your Honor, you take the S80/S20 indexes; all right, I think it's all right. I suppose you'd see all the other indexes, because taking a single index, not knowing everybody else, is an act of inappropriate political trilerism from a speaker as serious as you. You know that the inequality in Galicia is falling, that the poverty rate in Galicia today is lower than when you were ruling in 2008, in full economic goodness. Why don't you tell the Greeks that? You know that the number of homes with difficulty to arrive at the end of the month is the lowest in the historical series. Why are you hiding that from the Greeks? And you know, Your Honor, that severe material deficiency is reduced by 2.4 points and we are the fifth autonomous community with better data. That's why I'm surprised you come here with the S80/S20 index. In any case, with that index, Galicia is under the average of Spain, i.e. better than the whole of Spain. You take the Gini index, you can check it again. You're talking about wages. Annual labour cost survey INE, data 2017. In Galicia from 2008 to 2017, wages increase by 8% and in Spain by 5.4%. Why don't you say that in Galicia wages were increased during the economic crisis three points more than in the rest of Spain? I'm surprised. INE, let's go back to INE. The poverty rate in Galicia is almost three points below the Spanish average. We're back down this year with respect to the previous year, and we're one of the autonomous communities with the lowest poverty rate than in 2008, in full economic prosperity. I repeat again: I think this effort that is being made among all of us must be put in value. The low number of homes with difficulty to arrive at the end of the month, the lowest number in the historical series. Now, if you say to me, are you satisfied with this situation? No, of course not, Your Honor. What are we going to do? First, by making the social presupposition that has never been made in the autonomous community in relation to the content of the budgets. Since 2009, social policies have increased by 70%, by 70%, their budget, that is, during the time of economic prosperity they spent less on social policies than they do now. And the second proposal. Look, for the first time in Galicia, you'll get a social integration income from Galicia compatible with a job. We're going to approve it this month, by decree. The first time — I insist — in the autonomous community, Risga perceivers can share...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u29	...this perception of Risga and a job. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, we're working on this. But, Mr. Leicega, do you come to pick up two indices and ignore twenty indices that say exactly what I just read? Mr. Leicega, classes of inequality, please go to other autonomous communities to give them. Do you know what the problem is, Mr. Leicega? That in those autonomous communities you rule, or they rule. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u31	Yes, you tell me about the budget. I believe that your policies can be summed up—I said the other day—in what is known as Matthew's effect, because what you have will be given and will have more but what you have not yet will be taken away—Matthew 13:12. [[Applause]] Look: you criticise the rise of the minimum wage, because it's too generous, but there are 175,000 employees in Galicia who charged less than 9,000 euros a year in 2017, and they are told to tighten their belt. But they're too many of our compatriots fighting for the end of the month and they'd deserve more empathy for you, Mr. Feijóo. And yet, it reserves all political sympathy for the fewer than 1,000 Greeks — 0.27% of the total — who pay a wealth tax, those who have 5.5 million euros of net assets. And I know you do it with good intentions, try to help them get to the end of the month, because life is very difficult and there is so much driver, so much gardener, so much pilot, so much mechanic, so much worker or household worker, that in the new political situation they're going to demand more forcefully their rights, that the unions are back, that it's very difficult to get to the end of the month for these people. I know he does it with the best of intentions. He wants to help them cope with extra expenses, that New York is very expensive, that now with divorces there are more marriages, that we have to spend the pension on children and daughters, that we have to... finally... even the new government threatens with new taxes, the financial transaction, when we have most of our assets in securities. The Tax Agency threatens to fight tax evasion more strongly, and now Switzerland is no longer what it was and Singapore is far away. I know that you do it with good intentions, that you want to relieve them with that heavy burden of reaching the end of the month. He doesn't do it out of sympathy, he doesn't. Well, I don't really know why he does it, and he might have an opportunity to explain it to us. But the truth is that that budget of what is so proud of is what it raises as the most important tax measure is to reduce the property tax to 723 people who have the greatest fortunes in our country. [[Applause]] That's your bare, bare fiscal policy. Surely, it's to give them a joy, that not everything will be disgusting right now. It's still in time, it's still in time to change budgets and avoid this scandal, it's still in time to socially balance your 2018 budgets, unless you want to be known as president of the great fortunes. And we ask you to eliminate the 20% reduction in property tax rates, to boost social dialogue with the unions, to which you committed yourself in the debate of the state of autonomy, to improve the conditions in the labour market, and to double the OPE that you have planned, to really reduce precariousness in the public administration, not to make a gesture that only touches this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u33	Those are the measures I would need for us to change our mind about their action in relation to social inequality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u34	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u35	Mr. Leicega, this is probably what we're going to celebrate tomorrow's 40th anniversary of the Constitution because it really brings us closer to political parties. In the first part of the speech of the BNG spokesman I understood that he made an approximation to the Constitution, then it made it clear to me that he did not. And now you quote me Matthew—13:12—. I know that there are Christian socialists and Catholic socialists, without any doubt. I know that at this moment in the Socialist Party, that's going to go out, there's only a few of them left, now they're talking bad about the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] But what is clear, Your Honor, is that, in addition to knowing Matthew's verse, you should not ignore the tables of the law. It's ten, easy to remember. The eighth says, "You won't tell false witnesses or lie, Mr. Leicega." Yes, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] It's easy, it's easy to come here and get the index S/80 and S/20 — I suppose students at the Faculty of Right will be having fun in this session — that 80 and that 20, and not talk about the National Institute of Statistics, not talking about any official statistics, not talking about the rate of poverty — which today is less than the year 2008 — to hide that the number of homes that do not reach the end of the month is the lowest of the time, and something else: to hide them from the students at the National Institute of Statistics, not from any official statistics, that the Government that eliminated the capital tax in Spain was the Socialist Government in 2007. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Surprising, gentlemen! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] You think law students don't have memory. They do have memory. When we study the Tributary and Prosecutor's Law, an item will appear and will say: year 2007, lower taxes is left-handed, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero dít. What did we do? To raise the property tax, 20%. What do we do now? Leave the estate tax as it was. Is that to lower the estate tax? I mean, leaving the estate tax as it was is lowering the tax? No, no, we raised the estate tax and now we leave it as it was. That's exactly the way it is. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Leicega, do you know that during our entire ten-year term, we've been lowering taxes to middle and low incomes? Do you know that income tax to physical persons in Galicia is the lowest in the state? I'm going to give you two considerations. One. When we lowered the succession tax and excepted EUR 400,000 because of their causes, they told us it was a right-wing tax policy, and Andalusia arrived and made an exemption of EUR 1 million for their causes. What are we left with, Mr. Leicega? If we drop EUR 400,000 in succession taxes here, we're on the right, and if we lose EUR 1 million, the Socialist Party in Andalusia, they're on the left progressive. First consideration. And the second consideration — allow me, now that we're at Christmas parties — look, you're talking about inequality, poverty, emergency, how is it possible for you to learn to buy light bulbs at Genile Bridge at Christmas? It won't be so bad. If we are able to buy millions of light bulbs in the Cordoba town of Genile Bridge to put the cities where the Socialist Party rules with greater splendor, we are not so bad in terms of inequality and emergency, Mr. Leicega. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Leicega? That in the city where your leader governs — sorry, the corresponding mayor — who has the worst data on social policies in all cities, including those of the Tides, it turns out that there are the bulbs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u37	Your Honor, our priority is social policy, social policy, Mr Leicega. Do not demagogy with inequality, poverty and low income, because when it comes to doing social politics, what they do is a bulb policy. By the way, it wouldn't be wrong to buy the light bulbs in Galicia, Mr. Leicega. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Mr. Losada, Mr. Losada, silence, silence. Bad picture up, eh! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] How do you care? Man, don't say that, please. How could you possibly take a bad picture of the people upstairs? You can't be as bad as the people we have in the gallery take a bad picture of you, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to help you. And besides, it's not bad that from time to time we take a look at the Gospels, it's also good about that. [[Murmurs.]] Be clear. [[Laughter]] Ask Mr. President of the Board of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the issues that the Government of Galicia has to hide in relation to the management of public health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u39	Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u40	Good morning, thank you very much. Mr. Núñez, now more than two years ago, when the People's Party began to feel threatened electorally as a result of the numerous cases of corruption, which were beginning to turn into criminal convictions, into the first pieces separated from the Gürtel case, here too with the Champion case, etc., you conceived an image campaign consisting of appearance transparency, and thus, among other things, they made a reform of the Rules of Procedure in this House where they said they would allow the opposition to investigate issues that even bothered the majority group. The music, of course transparency, sounded good: to be able to investigate against the opinion of the majority group. However, the moment of truth came and confirmed the worst of suspicions, and transparency was a whole question of stone cardboard. In Marea and the rest of the opposition groups, in September this year, we decided to activate this commission of inquiry on an issue that is fundamental to Galician citizenship: the defense of a public health system. People are worried and live with great concern about the situation of cuts, the precariousness of health personnel, and the privatization of the public health service. Just get sick to face some very long waiting lists, to see the saturation of emergency services or to see the continuing private derivation; also to see the lack of material resources and resources as well as personnel. And that gives rise to the fact that today many groups, both professional and citizen alike, are protesting: the transportation technicians of health personnel, the health personnel of the CAP, of the 061, the emergency personnel here in the hospital of Santiago, multiple local communities in defense of a pediatric service: Mondariz, Cangas, Cuntis, etc. And these protests had two milestones, which are especially important, and so we wanted to bring this commission: the death of eight people as a result of the lack of medication in time, in the case of hepatitis C, and the death of a person at the Road CAP, while waiting for a doctor who never arrived and with an express failure to comply with two rules adopted by the Council itself, which required a second medical team that did not exist; in total, a saving of 300 euros cost in an afternoon, which ended with a death. And we, the set of opposition groups, want to pass the numbers to people, put them to the cuts, and ask ourselves what happened and ask ourselves and give a solution to that suffering that seems absolutely unnecessary to us. Well, it was to ask for this commission of inquiry and really to know what the true spirit of the adoption of that reform was: to prevent transparency could really exist, to prevent any investigation, because the People's Party has devoted itself to vetoing the appearances that the opposition groups are asking for in that committee. Why do we want an investigation commission if we can't investigate? How can you allow those who have refused to investigate, because you voted against that commission of inquiry, now be those who decide who can appear in the commission of inquiry and who is not? If you didn't want to investigate, now it's logical to oppose. So, in the name of what transparency was this done? This committee vetoed numerous proposals, and it was initially made in the name of too many proposals, and then the opposition groups agreed to reduce them once, twice and up to three times, and the response continued to be that no, which left a truth uncovered: that the problem wasn't the numbers, the problem is that you didn't want to know the truth. You didn't want to hear the voice of the road workers and emergency CAP workers to know what happened that afternoon, you didn't want to hear the victims of the deceased person in that place and you didn't want to hear what we had to say to people responsible for denying the medication of hepatitis C patients. Can you explain why these vetoes are known to the truth, Mr. Nuñez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u41	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Reply by the President of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u42	I think it's very important to hear Mr. Villares talk about transparency today, it's very revealing, Mr. Villares. I believe that the concern of the Tides of Podemos with the commission of inquiry is that the president of the board had asked to attend before he saw how many people would appear, that the Health Counsellor had asked to appear, that the Councillor of Fairy had asked to appear. I think he's worried about that. I'm also surprised that, speaking of health care, you don't tell me about the last two health data that have just become public until now. It turns out that the national health system waiting lists have just been issued. Galicia is one of four autonomous communities with better waiting lists at all. List of surgical waiting, Galicia half sixty days, Spain as a whole ninety-three days. Rioxa, Madrid, Basque Country and Galicia are the best. External consultations, Galicia at an average of thirty-seven days, and Spain at an average of fifty-seven days. Is that what you think is a mismanagement of the country's public health, being among the three-four autonomous communities with better waiting list data, despite having the oldest population in all these autonomous communities? And you think that's a bad data for health professionals? Today at the board of directors we will approve a public job offer of 1,460 squares, over 500 doctors, over 650 health graduates. Those are our proposals, Mr. Villares, that's what we're doing with health. You, who belong to a minority group within Parliament, set up an investigative committee, and, as amended by the Rules of Procedure of the House, you are accepted. Why has the opposition's proposal never been carried out for thirty years in the autonomous community? Why when we were in the opposition we could never put forward a committee proposal? Why did the investigating committees when the Bipartite was in Parliament investigate what the People's Party Government did when it was in opposition? The Committee on Culture, the Committee on the Unfortunate Pipes of the Salnés rapid road. You vote, that left self-proclaimed left - in my opinion, reactionary left - are setting up an investigation commission and not attending that investigation commission. Do you think that In Marea has something more important to make you come to the health investigation committee? Will it be to appear in the investigation committees that you are training about yourself? Is that above all about Parliament and the committee of inquiry set up in this Parliament? Everything seems to indicate yes. Look, Your Honor, I've applied for the appearance myself. A member of his group told me that as I am abrogating the possibility of requesting my presence. But that's the minimal lack of democratic standards. How can the president of a government be denied to appear in an investigation committee that wants to constitute parliamentary minorities? That seemed wrong to him. I understand that you are busy in other things that are not the commission of investigation, but it says a lot about the opposition that you don't want to participate in the commission of investigation and that, however, if you add to the comment on Twitter. You do not appear in Parliament, you do not appear in the commission of inquiry. They're all day commenting on that research commission on Twitter. No wonder, Your Honor, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u44	...more than a political party, you've been turning into a meme in the last few months, it's no wonder. But a little bit about Parliament, a little about Parliament, a little about committees of inquiry, a little about Parliament's parliamentary groups. Look, Mr. Villares, you know that if we're proud of something, it's public health management, you have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u46	And that's why, Your Honor, this month, before it's over, we started demolition of the old Lugo hospital -- something that you systematically denied us to do -- and before the end of the month we'll bid for the new Ferrol hospital. Do you think that's little commitment to public health, Mr. Villares? That's not a little compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u47	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u48	Mr. Núñez, the question was very easy, and apart from that, we made it in writing: why do you veto certain people in the commission of inquiry, which were precisely the people we wanted them to appear, because we believe that they could shed light on these facts? It was quite easy to ask, he put out four minutes and he didn't answer it, he has a chance to do it now. Look, can you explain to all the people who listen to us how you can investigate what happened in the emergency room at the Road CAP without calling here the professionals who were working that day? Can you explain how? You've offered to show up. Have you been working there that afternoon? It wasn't, was it? So you don't know what happened. So, wouldn't you mind letting those who were there come to explain to us what happened? Isn't it true that in the Alvia case all the professionals who were working that afternoon, both on board the train and at the station, were they? Explain in this case why the road CAP professionals can't come. They could ignore the day Mr. Rey Brea died on the road and say and say that he owed himself to a grave discovery of medical personnel, which was not casual in Sergas, but common to many other devices in Pontevedra province, which is the most deprived of medical personnel. You seem to give the feeling that you want to numb the uncomfortable voices that you don't want to hear in Parliament. But even more contradictory is the position of the People's Party, which you here defend with your silence, on two subjects: firstly, the relatives of the deceased on the Road, and, secondly, the people investigated criminally in the case of hepatitis C. Let's ask ourselves this first question: are there victims of first and second victims? Why can't the representatives of the deceased's family be present in this commission of inquiry, and yet they can do so, for example, in another committee of inquiry for the relatives of the deceased in Alvia? What difference is there between family members and other family members? Why can't Mr. Rey Brea's relatives be allowed to do so even the relatives of people who have died from hepatitis C? Why can't the victims in emergency in the Road case and the Marisquiño victims do it? Fortunately, in the case of Marisquiño no one died and yet injured persons and their representatives could appear, but they could not appear in the commission to the deceased person's family in the case of death in the Road CAP. Are there victims of first and second victims? It's not the only contradiction. There's another contradiction. In the case of hepatitis C, you censor, veto, make it impossible for Felix Rubial and Carolina González-Criado to appear, both criminally investigated for the improper denial of treatment that existed in the pharmacy and that could have saved their lives. Is it useful to know why they acted like this? We think so, and surely people too, but they can't come, why? They just shut him down that they can't come because the PP says they're being investigated criminally. The question is — and there are also right-wing students here to answer it — is the law prohibiting a criminal investigator from coming to Parliament or to a commission of inquiry? No, no, no, no. Does the House's Rules of Procedure prohibit an investigator from coming to an investigation committee? No, no, no, no. So, if there's no legal reason, there's only one political reason, and one political reason is called mordaza. What's bothering you? What do they tell the truth? It doesn't glue into Greek society that they can't come because they're being investigated. In the case of Alvia everyone remembers that he declared the machiner and was being investigated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u50	- Yes, I'm done. It's more: the People's Party in this same chamber has proposed and admitted a statement of persons who were being investigated criminally at the stage of instruction. Did you know this, Mr. Feijóo? Look, he's here. It is the proposed work of the case investigation commission, and on a proposal from the People's Party came those that were currently being investigated in the course of instruction: Mr. Fernández Gayoso, Mr. Pego Alonso or Mr. García de Paredes. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a document.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u51	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u52	You explain the contradiction: why in Parliament the same party in a committee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u53	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u54	...call them and investigate them criminally and no one else does? What do you have to hide? Well, in the case of hepatitis C, there are probably people who are covering up the real head of the cuts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u55	Thank you. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u56	"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" After this weekend Mr. Villares has legitimacy to speak of transparency and concealment. I am respecting Parliament and therefore I have lied to Parliament by telling you that we are vetoing, for example, the counsel of the people affected by hepatitis C. The lawyer comes to the House. [[Murmurs.]] Does it look like you have little defense? Do you think there's little defense we're proposing to come to the affected platform? Does it seem to you that it is inappropriate for the medical association that led the case to Justice to attend the commission? Why lie, Mr. Villares? It's that when they lie to each other they lie to each other, and the problem is that, as they lie to each other, they don't care. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Villares, that's the reason. Our proposal is not that the four hundred people affected by the Marisquiño—his, yes— are present, because we believe that those affected must pose their position as different from the commission of investigation, which logically wants to know, objectively, is what happened or what happened. But you're denying that the lawyer of the people in the case of hepatitis C and they're denying that the doctors are going to appear, the medical association that led the case to Justice. Why are people confusing? Do you think that unions, people related to hepatitis C, school representatives are people who are not trustworthy and don't deserve credit for that investigation commission? What did you mean, Your Honor? More than 200 people who compare, millions of documentation leaflets. Look, we agreed to the appearance: five requests, all matches of the groups. Comparatives who were accepted in the opposition's work plan: 20 of them. It is the most comparable commission in a committee of inquiry held in Parliament. They lie again on the subject of box managers. The box managers quoted them to declare the evolution of the boxes, not to declare the outstanding cases as their wages. Those were the ones who were awaiting justice. That's what we're not quoting, Mr. Villares. So you mustn't lie, because lying doesn't lead to anything. I repeat: look, Mr Villares, you represent a political group that is the paradigm of lack of transparency in its operation. You're like to question the data and talk about transparency, Mr. Villares. I do not want to insist or influence your proposals and your struggles, but to speak here of democracy, transparency, concealment, when a political party for a vote turns out that everything seems to indicate that this vote is not good for you, and for the vote and simply lets it sine die, and talks about democracy, transparency and concealment, Mr Villares, a little stench! Mr Villares, there are two committees of inquiry in this Parliament, both the opposition's proposal, both. This is the first time that has happened in a democratic Parliament, like Greek. Do you want to tell me if there is any council, including Vigo's, to allow an investigation committee to propose the opposition? No council in Galicia allows a commission of inquiry the opposition's proposal, none, no, no lordship. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I'm not going to talk to you about what's going on in Venezuela...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u58	...with the opposition investigation committees. Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that there's twenty-five thousand Greeks there, I don't know why they laugh about all those families. I understand that you in Venezuela would live very well, but the 25,000 Greeks live very badly. [[Murmurs.]] So I'm not going to talk about Venezuela anymore, about the opposition, about Vigo, about the opposition, about that. I'm not going to talk about it anymore. But let me give you one example in Spain of a Parliament where the committees of inquiry are the proposal of parliamentary minorities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u59	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u60	Two committees of inquiry the opposition's proposal. Your Honor, I want to tell you that I am very proud of the operation of this Parliament. 80% of the initiatives discussed in this Parliament are the opposition's proposal. To fire the colleges we have here, I propose they look into other parliaments. If a parliamentary group which has an absolute majority in the House, the only parliamentary group of all the autonomous parliaments, accepts two committees of inquiry the opposition's proposal, and 80% of the resolutions discussed in the House are on the proposal of the opposition, do you think it is reasonable to accuse us of concealment or lack of transparency?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u62	There was no more democratic Parliament than this, and there is no more democratic parliamentary group in Spain than the People's Parliamentary Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u63	Thank you, President. We continue with non-law proposals, which is the fourth point of the agenda. Let's take it back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u64	It'll have to be a little quieter. [[Pause.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand of the Government of Galicia to the central government for the signing of the order of construction of the five frigates F-110 of the Spanish Navy on the Navantia shipyard, in the district of Ferrol, as well as the guarantee of the technological investments and the infrastructure necessary to promote the conversion of that factory into a yard 4.0
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u65	Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Socialist and En Marea have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u66	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. We bring to this plenary a non-legal proposal fundamental to the future of the district of Ferrolterra, a region that would not be understood without such a strategic sector as the naval sector. We are not going to discover to anyone the historical importance, the social importance, the economic importance of the shipbuilding — civil and military — in the Ferrol River. In Navantia Fene-Ferrol there are around 15,000 jobs, 2,200 direct jobs in public yards, around 1,800 in auxiliary industry and 11,000 other indirect jobs. Navantia therefore accounts for 16% of the industrial GDP in the province of Coruña in terms of employment, Navantia Fene-Ferrol represents 24% of the province's industrial employment. The F-110 frigate project starts in 2004, if it's true that during Rodríguez Zapatero's term of office he was put in a drawer. It's 2015 when the project receives a final impulse, a decided impulse by a government, a People's Party government. In that year 2015 the investment of 135 million euros to advance in the ship's master's technology project is approved and the task is entrusted to UTE Navantia-Indra. In that same year, in 2015, a government, a Government of the People's Party, also began another investment — EUR 20 million — for Navantia to begin the stage of defining the design of the platform of future frigates F-110. The F-110 frigate program covers the construction of five units, with an investment of approximately EUR 4 billion. We're talking about a new military vessel that integrates air combat systems, anti-submarine, anti-superficial and electronic war systems. The program will provide employment for 7,000 people and will also include a EUR 400 million share, 10% of the global budget, for something fundamental that is the modernization of the installations of a yard dating back to the 18th century. We're talking about doing dredgings, fillings, building a new covered dam — of which we've talked a lot here — of building new docks, workshops, machinery, a whole series of performances to adapt our yard to the construction of a new ship of war that could interest not only the Spanish Navy but other armies in the world. It is true that Navantia's situation is not simple. In recent years we have suffered the consequences of the tensions caused by the lack of orders, the lack of workload, which occurred during the last stage of the Socialist Government. In the last five years of the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero there has been no single contract for the shipyards of the Ferrol River, zero requests in the last five years. It's true that it cost, it cost a lot to get back the activity on the yards of Ferrol's stream, but it's true that in that last period 2014-2018 there's been fruit from the work done throughout this period of popular government, and there's a portfolio of orders amounting to 1,700 million euros in recent years in the Ferrol's stream. We are talking about the fleet, which was causing so much laughter to many Members of this House, 150 million euros. We're talking about the BAM, the maritime action ship, commissioned by the Spanish Navy, 167 million euros. We're talking about two BACs for Australia, 480 million. From the design of an LHD, the transformation of the Monforte de Lemos, the building of blocks for the Suezmax oil tankers and the contract for the Saudi Arabian corvettes, which we believe the workload that would result from the Ferrol shipyards is equivalent to what a crow represents. In total, applications for an amount of EUR 1,727 million, and in this figure we also count three important requests for marine wind, two by Iberdrola and one by stateil. But we cannot hide our concern about the attitude of the current Government, of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez, an indolent, careless, irresponsible government — in our opinion. We are concerned because — you have to say clearly — whenever the Socialist Party ruled the naval sector in the Ferrol River was wrong. That's the reality. Here are the conversions of the 1980s, two consecutive conversions. Here's the conversion of the year 2005 driven by Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. Here's the productive veto that for thirty years has prevented the old Astano Fene shipyard from being able to devote itself to conventional naval construction. It was a government of the People's Party that reopened Astano, after thirty years of productive veto, devoting it to a fundamental activity as sea wind. That was diversifying rather than what was announced in the 1980s and never done. Whenever the socialists ruled, it was bad for the ferry ship, always, and we're certainly not prepared for that to happen again. We have thought — and we have said it many times in this House — that Zapatero was a bad president for the ferry in the Ferrol River, but we have to say that Pedro Sánchez is even worse, because Zapatero is true that in the last five years he has not achieved any contract, but Mr Sánchez has put contracts at risk for the last five months that he has left the previous Government. There's the problem of the Saudi currant contract and there's all the obstacles that are being put into the F-110 frigate project. The commitment of the People's Party Government to this project was indisputable: we unlocked it in 2015, we invested the money needed to put it into effect and today it is possible to carry it forward. Proof of this is that the budgets that Pedro Sánchez is now so far away and that we, a majority of the People's Party, approved us, had a share of 252 million euros for the start of the construction of the F-110 frigates. We've been waiting since June for the Government of Pedro Sanchez to approve the order of execution of the frigates F-110. There are twenty-six days left for the year to end, twenty-six days, and then there are four ministers' councils, to approve this order of execution of the F-110 frigates. That's why we bring this non-law proposal, to urge a government of what — we have to say openly — we do not trust ourselves, in what we do not trust, and we want to urge this government to commit, in a council of ministers, before the end of the year, the order of execution of the frigates F-110. We don't ask the Government of Pedro Sánchez for anything we won't ask the Government of Mariano Rajoy. There's the budget game in the state budgets. We have made the most difficult: to promote the project in the design phases, during the worst economic crisis that Spain has ever experienced. While some asked for cuts in military spending, we did what was necessary for the project to take forward and invest in the resources necessary for the design of this project, and we approved the general state budgets for this year, which contemplate the first part of this project: 252 million euros. We don't want that match to be ineffective. We want the execution order to be committed so that that money will not be lost and we don't have to start again. We asked the Government of Pedro Sánchez the simplest, we've done the most difficult. To the Government of Pedro Sánchez, we are now asking the simplest: not to stop a project that is fundamental to a region that is tired of halting the unjustifiable punishment of socialist governments since the 1980s. Enough stick in the wheels, enough excuses, enough lies. Now what it's about is betting on Ferrol; now what it's about is saying is whether we're on the side of the government or whether we're on the side of the county of Ferrol, whether we're here to justify the delays some people want to commit to this project, or whether we're here to defend something fundamental to the county of Ferrolterra. Today, what we demand from the railways is a unanimous agreement from this House, from this Parliament, to a project that has to open a new time for the district of Ferrol, which has to open a new time for a sector like the naval sector, strategic for the district of Ferrolterra, strategic for the province and the industrial fabric of the province of Coruña and strategic for our community. Of course, the ferrolans would not understand that today this House does not unanimously support a project that is crucial to the district of Ferrol, a region that doesn't want and a region that can't wait any longer. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u68	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u69	Good morning to all and to all. It seems good to us from the BNG that at last the People's Party should be a little demanding of Madrid, more late than ever, because we disagreed a little about the self-comprehensive reading of its passage through the Government which Mr. Tellado has now done. In any case, as I say, it looks great to us. [[Applause]] We will certainly not demand less from the Government of Pedro Sanchez than we demanded from the Government of the People's Party. What we don't think is that the initiative, which can sink a little further on some other issue than the signing of the contract, because it doesn't. That is why we tabled an amendment in a constructive spirit, which I imagine Mr Tellado has planned to accept, to take over this initiative. The first thing they ask us to do is sign contracts, if we want to sign that contract and start working as soon as possible. So, I'm going to say it slowly and clearly, so that then Mr. Tellado can't manipulate my words: we want that contract signed and finally comply, but, of course, what we don't think is very normal, Mr. Tellado, is that you come here to perform a selective memory exercise, because you did so a review by Mr. Rajoy's legislation but you forgot a question that we didn't seem to be smaller, and that is that few weeks ago we knew that, thanks to that authentic and effective system of institutional corruption that is the People's Party, because we had just been two years behind this issue. We know from then on that political leaders of your party wanted to impose in particular a missile model to favor Mr. Morenés, former Defence Minister, and we know and there is evidence that Rajoy's Government has sought to favor you. [[Applause]] So, we think that the least, the least, is that you include in your proposal the Central Government's demand that you transfer this matter to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to find out if there's any kind of criminal responsibility. I'm saying the least, because the normal thing in a government that wants Ferrol a little bit and this country would also be to debug political responsibilities on one side and on the other. Secondly, in the line of similar initiatives of the People's Party, they forget something that is fundamental to us, which is the wager for diversification. In the initiative they basically link the transformation of the current yard to a 4.0 yard exclusively to this contract of frigates. And we think that the perspective has to be linked to more contracts, and also linked to a commitment by the Galician Union itself to issues that seem fundamental to us and that we formulate there, as the bet on a real integral complex that overcomes the current fragmentation, and goes to our amendments to the budgets. So also next week you have a chance to find a consensus there. And so we ask this question for more ambition and so on. And also because today I suppose all of your lords read the press at first thing in the morning and we have a new one that seems positive. We see that Navantia is proposing 2,200 biases and employing 1,658 people in a step-by-step manner. He's talking about renevenation, he seems to have played the lottery, but the truth is if we stick to 2,200 of those thousand six hundred people, and I peak because we have a loss of more than 500 jobs left. This leads us to a fundamental reflection: in this Parliament we have to be focused on is to work because that transition to yard 4.0 does not end up being a new hidden conversion. And that's why we understand that we can't accept any perspective that has the foot of the military monoculture, because you talked about the necessary lifting of the veto to civil construction, but the fact is that today there is a de facto veto to this construction, and on the other hand, we understand that we must not accept a frame that is leading us down one way or another, through biases and so on, to the reduction of real jobs. So also, one of the issues that we include in our amendment and we understand that it should be accepted by the board of Galicia, although they have also accepted something similar and have not yet complied with it, we keep insisting that the board of Galicia must develop and comply with the naval law, starting with its relationship with Navantia, because if not, we're going to see things like what we've seen in the last few weeks. We saw how from Norway allegations were made to the ferrolan naval about their ability to work, about whether that frigate that sank was either well or badly done, and we saw nowhere at the Town of Galicia, there is no relationship. It looks like a planet is Navantia and another planet is the board of Galicia, and we understand that there should be a line of dialogue and work. That is why we propose that they comply with and develop the Naval Law and that, on this particular issue of the consequences that could have the negative impact of these accusations by Norway, be palliated and do not imply any kind of loss of competitiveness. In summary accounts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u71	...we understand that yes, we must press the central government to sign the contract, but we must also go much further. We have to bet on diversification, for we are committed to actually raising that veto to civil construction, and we are committed to maintaining and increasing the models that work in the naval and developing this law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Tellado, I am surprised that after several years ruling the People's Party with Mr. Rajoy ahead, and having the opportunity they had to sign the order of execution in the construction of these frigates, they had not. And now, knowing the deadlines for signature, they present this initiative to us, knowing that a socialist government will sign that execution. The construction of the F-110 frigates is a fundamental piece for the future of the Ferrol River shipyards, as you well said before, and they will fully assume their construction. It's a project budgeted at 4.5 million euros and it predicts it will generate an occupation for 7,000 workers, both direct and indirect, over the next ten years. The shipbuilding in Galicia, and more specifically in Ferrol and its region, is a strategic sector, as well as historically the main tractor industry of small and medium-sized businesses in the region, not only by the number of direct jobs, but by the large number of indirect jobs that it generates in the auxiliary industry and the important impact it has on the socioeconomic fabric of the region. In this iodine, we see how Mr. Sánchez's government will fulfill its commitment to Ferrol and its territory. We also pointed out that on 8 February 2017 in the Upper Chamber, with the vote in favour of all parliamentary groups, a motion was adopted calling upon the Government of that year — the PP Government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy — to speed up the construction programme of the new F-110 frigates of Navantia within the framework of an industrial plan that contains the participation of the workers and guarantees the stable workload for the future. In addition to the development of the new frigate program, we need to take advantage of the long-term programs for the modernization of shipyards, the deployment of new technologies and the improvement of productivity to generate more value added across the production chain. However, Mr. Rajoy's government has made deaf ears to this agreement, and the F-110 frigate project was still kept in a drawer until a socialist government arrived, and we don't know why, but we're looking at some reasons, perhaps they'd be waiting for the study commissioned by the previous Defence Ministry team to evaluate the type of missile that would carry the ships and favor an old government member, or perhaps they wanted to wait until 2019 for Mr. King Varela to make Ferrol and his county a gift of kings. [[Applause]] Despite the obstacles of the former Government, the current Ministry of Defence has done its duty, and this project is currently located in the Ministry of Business, the last process before passing to the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] Finally, Mr. Tellado, the F-110 frigates, which will be built for the Spanish Navy, will be approved by the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks, thanks to the will of a socialist government and not to the immobilism of Mr. Rajoy's Government and the propagandism of Mr. Feijóo. Our vote will be in favour, although we tabled an amendment for the Spanish Government to sign the order of execution with the utmost urgency, since this project is very important for Ferrol and his region. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u74	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u75	Good morning to all and to all. As we have already spoken in Commission 6a, we fully agree with the objectives of this proposal which the People's Party is presenting today, but in fact we also think it is a real shame that those who paralysed this work for two years are now those who present initiatives demanding responsibilities. We agreed on that requirement, but the reality is that we have to have a little bit of... what we should -- I think -- is to apologize to the county. They lied to citizenship for the benefit of Mr. Morenés, and if not true, they accept and collaborate with the Ministry of Defence to investigate this matter thoroughly and take him to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, to see if nothing really happened. Then I was also surprised that in Mr. Rajoy's Government's investment report Mr. Tellado had forgotten the contract with Mr. Morenés' company, amounting to over nine million euros, to produce reports to try to convince the Navy that their missiles were better than those that had been developing the Spanish State for several years with public funds. It really seems to us that the commercial activities of a private company are paid with public funds. That's right, an ex-minister, but private. We also agreed on the need to boost civil construction in Navantia, which Mr Tellado spoke little about, although it is the fundamental part of point 2 of his proposal. For the transformation into yard 4.0 it is essential to build a civilian ship that does not stop growing across Europe, especially in very specialized ships, such as gas tankers, cruises, exploration boats, etc. That's why it's essential to put in place Navantia's industrial plan, but not an industrial plan that has as its business horizon Navantia-Fene, for example, in this case, or the rental of land and logistics infrastructures so that other companies can develop their business in Fene's strategic factory. We need to take advantage of the strategic possibilities of this factory to develop projects of all kinds with its own technology. We want Navantia-Fene to have enough technological capacity and infrastructure to build cruises, gas tankers, and other specialized boats; ships that by their technological level are mainly manufactured in Europe, with great added value. For this, we must be ambitious, and we must consider, among other things, the possibility of developing a second dry dam in Fene, in addition to Navantia-Ferrol. It's the only way to develop the 4.0 yard, as anyone who works in this sector knows. So that all of this isn't left in a simple statement of intent, we made our amendment of addition. We think that it is constructive and completes the objectives of these proposals, not only central to the construction of the frigates. On the one hand, we believe that all initiatives, both their own and those of the Sepi and the Ministry of Industry, must be developed to put in place the industrial plan that has been paralysed for more than two years, and this is what is going on with the new Government, since the social proposals which the Government of the Socialist Party is making for the social part are totally inescapable. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, speak with your Government to amend this proposal, which, I say, is not acceptable on the social side. And also demand the leadership of Sepi and Navantia that all staff exits in the future industrial plan be covered by new staff qualified in numbers at least as low as those of casualties; it cannot assume this new industrial plan a new professional dismantling of the yard. It also urges the leadership of Sepi and Navantia to plan new staff exits and entries — this has been calling for the social part for a long time — to allow a sufficient overhaul in time to guarantee the necessary transfer of knowledge. We haven't lost all the knowledge accumulated in decades, which is a lot. Then, that the Galician Union actively collaborates with the Ferrol Council to activate all environmental impact issues, so that dry sayings can be a reality as soon as possible. To urge the Government to tell us how much money there will be, because an industrial plan of this ambition, without budgets, will be impossible to develop. How much do you intend to invest the State Government in this industrial plan? Afterwards, Galician Union should also transfer the interest of being present at the Navantian Board of Directors. It's essential, and it says the People's Party's own proposal: Navantia is a strategic piece of the economy not only of Ferrolterra, but also of Galicia. All of this implies that he could request that presence on the Board of Directors. And don't come to us with the usual argument that entering a board of directors is to assume possible responsibilities of heritage. That's not the case, property responsibility belongs to the owner, and the owner is the State. Because of being on the board, the Galician board wouldn't assume any responsibilities, and you know that. We're sure all these contributions are constructive, and in fact we think they would greatly improve their LNP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u77	After listening to the representatives of the confrerery of the saint reproach, we spoke again about Ferrol and the naval sector. Look, Mrs. Presas, the truth is that it is understandable to see the BNG concerned about the construction of a warship, of a ship for the Spanish Navy, whose function is to maintain Spain's sovereignty and independence, territorial integrity and constitutional ordering. Welcome and welcome! [[Applause]] About your amendment, maybe you should know that the Fene and Ferrol shipyards have been an integral complex since 2005. I understand that you, which is more dry, and the boat that is closest to you, is Valdeorras's, you don't know, but that's the reality. Full stream complex since 2005, 13 years ago. [[Applause]] If it were Ferrol, perhaps you would know that the choice of a European missile or an American missile does not influence the design of a ship. So what you say is false, false of all falsehood!, a curtain of smoke to cover up the inefficiency of a minister who had a mess with Saudi Arabia and who almost endangers the future of our country's public shipyards. You, as you have always done, contribute to that strategy of the Socialist Party, because, you know, what happens? That when the Zapatero government applied a naval conversion to Ferrol in 2005, you approved the PSOE's general government budgets that year, that was what you were! The truth is, as far as the Tides are concerned, I have to tell you, Mr. Casal, that not all workers in the naval sector can be members of Podemos, they can't be. The workers in the naval sector want to make ships, warships, which is what we've been doing for 200 years. So when they hear you ask Madrid for cuts of military spending and here asking for more contracts for the naval, what they say is that you take their hair. That double speech is regrettable. You're constantly denouncing and impeaching irregularities. If you have any evidence -- because, of course, if you have it, you haven't explained it here -- go to the Prosecutor's office. But they don't go because they don't have evidence. You are permanently attached to the plot, to slander, and you are to speak of irregularities, Mr. Casal! Look, they insist on Galicia's entry into the Navantia Board of Directors, a company that closed in 2017 with 389 million euros of losses. I understand that to you, as you think public money is nobody's, it doesn't matter, but public money is from the Greeks and the Greeks. Don't ask us for adventures, which you know a lot about. And Mr. Pérez Seco, go paper made him do today! You guys haven't done anything yet, nothing! for the F-110 frigate project. If that project today is in the process of possibly approving the order of execution of the ship is because we have done a job from 2015 until today: investing more than two hundred million euros in design and execution, reserving a EUR 252 million share in budgets this year that are lost within 26 days, and we are not willing to lose. So, you're not announcing anything because you've done nothing. [[Murmurs.]] And the placard of his secretary-general this week is quite regrettable, saving his face to a government that, of course, has never supported the naval sector in the Ferrol River. You bring an amendment that you ask is to delay the matter more time, so be it close. No, no, we're asking for a concrete commitment: that's before this year ends, in the next 26 days, why aren't they worth it? I don't think you've understood very well with your secretary general...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u78	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u79	...I guess he talks to them from the helicopter, and with the noise of the quotes they don't hear. And Mr. Knight doesn't decide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u80	On the amendments, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u81	...to tell the pilot of the helicopter that he continues to give again, he doesn't decide to jump. You can see that you don't understand well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u82	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u83	On the amendments, Mr President, what I have to tell you is that we want a unanimous declaration from this Parliament of commitment to the shipbuilding sector, of commitment to Ferrolterra. It's Ferrol time, it's Ferrol time, and you have to decide whether you're with Pedro Sánchez or whether you're with Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u84	So do you accept the amendments, then?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u85	I'm afraid they're with Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u86	Do you accept?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u87	We think there has to be a clear statement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u88	But do you accept?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u89	...and the original text...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u90	Do you accept?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u91	...of our initiative is perfectly clear. So, we kept our proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u92	Don't you accept them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u93	...and we wait for the wisdom of opposition groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u94	Thank you. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Presas, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u95	By Article 76.3 on the decoration of the parliamentary group, to remind Mr Tellado that we are also against the provincial distribution of Javier de Burgos, and we believe that any Member of the country — regardless of his envy at the sunny hours we have in Ourense — are intellectually trained to defend and position ourselves on the ship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u96	Let's see, calm down, please! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet! [[Applause]] Quiet, there's no problem. [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] I didn't think that was an insult to no one's intelligence. Man, please, I'm from Ourense! [[Protests.]] I'm from Ourense and I didn't feel here...! [[Murmurs.]] Please! [[Murmurs.]] I don't think so. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, Mr. Tellado, if you want to say something about the matter for... yes, yes, calm down, please! [[Protests.]] No, no, quiet. [[Protests.]] Quiet! [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt any of the rights or dignity of the honourable Member, I understand. [[Murmurs.]] I just want you to confirm that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u97	No, no, if Mrs. Noa Presas, for indicating she's from Ourense, felt attacked somehow... I told her that the data you were handling was imprecise, that the production units of Fene and Ferrol... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u98	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u99	...are an integral complex for 13 years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u100	That's it! I also understood that there were no insults.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u101	Three years!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u102	I didn't see any insults anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u103	I don't think the Galician Nationalist Block has known for 13 years what the reality is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u104	It's perfectly understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u105	...and the situation of the shipyards in the Ferrol River.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u106	There's no insult. There's no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] That's it. No insults. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Mrs Pontón, let's not complicate the debate. I won't give you the floor now, no. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please, I'm not giving the floor! No, I don't want to complicate... No, I'm not giving the floor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] No, no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] The article of common sense, which is the most common of all. [[Protests.]] I didn't notice any insults. [[Murmurs.]] And if there were any insults or anything that might undermine the dignity of the honourable Member, I would correct it. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I didn't understand it that way and it was nuanced...—you don't speak, Mrs. Prado, that I am speaking.— [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] That was by no means to harm the honourable Member. Of course! [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, of course. Of course. Please, it's over here. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's go with the next non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the victims of Francoism buried in common pits in Galicia, as well as those initiatives promoted by the Central Government or by autonomous communities in which missing people exist
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u107	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u108	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u109	Good morning. This proposal that we bring to the plenary today is part of a set of initiatives by the BNG on the democratic historical memory, through non-law proposals that we presented and which we are presenting in various committees, and also through a project of the Greek law of historical memory that we will soon bring the debate to this plenary. It seems to us that it is a text of the state's most advanced, which marks public policies of historical memory characterized by transversality and centrality, because we are convinced and convinced that it has to be a central bet of a government, which has to depend on the central authorities of the Government and not be a sectoral policy. Today we bring a concrete initiative on the exhumation of pits, and we think it's a magnificent opportunity that we offer the People's Party to rectify, to change the course, to redeem itself from so many years of contempt and humiliation to victims and their families. Also to demonstrate their commitment — if so — to be democratic, to disengage ourselves from the legacy of dictatorship and also to put on a health cord with regard to those organizations and parties that support fascism. It must be taken into account, in order to understand this question, that in the Spanish State is pending — in Galicia, of course, much more — a public policy of democratic memory. We have a law of the year 2007 that we've been saying all this time that she's a child, that she's insufficient, and that the People's Party has assumed since the Government of the State not to comply, not to spend a single euro. And this is just one example of the very long memorial of publicly pronounced ill-treatment by the representatives of the People's Party against the victims and their families. You, who boast so much now that you celebrate the 40 years of the Constitution—we, of course, have already told you and we have told you many times that we have not celebrated it because, if you have not understood it yet, we are German nationalists and our aspirations do not fit in this straitjacket of the Constitution—we tell you that it is a true historical anomaly and a democratic shame that forty-three years after the end of the dictatorship, forty years since that sacred constitution its own, still survives this pact of silence, amnesia, that it is a display of low democratic quality, and that when you want to celebrate the 40 years of Constitution there are processes of involution and regression of rights and freedoms that are putting the cry in the sky all over Europe. [[Applause]] In addition, we have just attended a debate on exhumation and transfer of Franco's remains that we really think is also a cross-cutting debate, because what we have to talk about is exhumation of the remains of Franco's. Because it is true that Franco remains buried with honors of chief of state in Cuelgamuros, but frankism remains alive. He's still alive in Meirás, using Meirás's palace to apologize dictatorship and genocide, and we can't afford it. We therefore demand the Government of the State to initiate the legal actions at once for the recovery of the palace for the public heritage. Look, even if you want to divert this debate, when we talk about memory policy, we talk about fundamental human rights in a society: the right to know the truth, the right to exercise justice, also the right to reparation and the right to guarantees of non-repetition. We think that memory should not be a confrontation; memory should, in any case, serve to cohesion and strengthen society, to have a fuller and more mature democracy, which we do not have until we have solved this question. And it's not that BNG says it, it's not that it tells the state's entire memorialism movement, that it says it with repeated reports, warnings and demands to the Spanish State. For example, the Report of the Working Group on Enforced Disappearances, both in 2014 and in its repetition in 2017, said that Spain, the Spanish State, had a pattern of impunity around the disappearances of frankism. And you were assuming for all those years that you didn't spend a euro on historical memory. Curiously, if they spent public money, for example, on repatriating the remains of 29 members of the Blue Division, but they had no money to look for the victims of repression and the franchise dictatorship. Despite this limited legal framework of the law of 2007, the BNG, when it had government responsibilities in the board of Galicia, carried out public memory policies and, in particular, acted on the search, location, exhumation and identification of the victims of franchise. And so it was that in 2008 the Government of Galicia signed an agreement with the Imelga, the Institute of Legal Medicine of Galicia, which the People's Party no longer reached the Government in 2009 eliminated, annihilated, as it did with all the public policies of memory that were being developed in those years: with the project names and voices, with the island of San Simón as the island of memory, with the women's program with memory, with the Council of Historical and Democratic Memory, with an infinity of activities developed to disseminate on historical memory, with help to associations and also in the audiovisual field. Now that ten years have passed since that time when there was for the first time a government committed to this matter, you have adopted a resolution in the plenary of the nation's state to promote institutional collaboration in the exhumation of graves. And here we have to say that there is already an important work done in Galicia in this matter, through the Project names and voices in the years 2006 and 2008, that allows us to have a clear map of the pits in Galicia, those that are exhumed and those that are still pending exhumation. But we must avoid the mistakes of the past and also the limited and insufficient framework of the Law of Historical Memory, which is a key issue that we defend and which defends the whole memorial movement, and that exhumations must be the result of a public initiative programme, we cannot leave exclusively in the hands of the private initiative and associations that are making exhumations, which have a great deal of merit, but with volunteerism and with shortage of means, and they do not have all the guarantees required by international directives and also by those approved by the Spanish State to make exhumations with professional and multidisciplinary teams and following the necessary protocols. In this sense, we have to say that there are experiences in the Spanish State that are a reference, they are a model to follow. We have to learn from those territories, from those communities, that have been doing these things well for a long time. And we have an example, a reference in this case, which is the Government of the Basque Country, with a plan to exhumate the pits for the years 2015-2020 which can be that model to follow. In addition, with an exquisite, rigorous and extraordinarily respectful procedure for exhumation, with five phases ending with the delivery — if the remains are logically identified — of the remains to the families in order to be able to make the consequent act, if they want, of repair and burial worthy. Because, of course, it's a scandal, it's a shame -- as I said -- democratic, that there are hundreds of families at this time, thousands of families in Galicia, that they still don't have a grave where even to put flowers, that they couldn't even do the one, share the pain, socialize the pain, because they don't have a place to carry those flowers. That's why we bring here a proposal that has very clear points and very specific proposals. First of all, to approve and draw up a plan by the Greek of graves for their location, exhumation and identification of the victims and return to their families for their dignified burial. Secondly, to create a DNA bank for the collection of samples of these remains and also of their families, as is already being done in other territories of the State — such as the Basque Country or the Navarra case. And for that we also think that we have forensic research institutions here that are a reference in the state — such as the Imelga or the Institute of Legal Medicine of the University of Santiago de Compostela — to which the corresponding collaboration agreements can be made. We call for the launch of this fossil plan in 2019, and it must be multi-annual for at least five years; it would have to be developed, and logically, of the necessary economic departures, starting with next year's budgets, and here we also make concrete proposals, because the BNG has tabled amendments to be able to develop this plan as early as 2019. And we also understand, as it is logical, that collaboration should be sought in this area of councils and deputies; of the councils, logically, where these gaps are. And in addition, we find it essential that the Government of the United States collaborate with other initiatives in the state, for example, with the Inter-Self-Governing Historical Memory Network, which was not at the first meeting, we hope that they will correct and go to the second, and that they will work together, in addition, with a project that is also a reference in the State, which is what they are doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u111	...the Government of Navarre to locate and identify the victims of Ezkaba's escape. I'm done, Mr. President. We think from the BNG that we have a debt pending to pay, a debt with thousands of people who fought for freedom and were killed in Galicia, with their families; leads to those trade unionists, men and women who were founded in the rivers of Galicia, as in the case of Rosario Hernández Dieguez, La Calesa, a twenty-year-old girl who was kidnapped, who was tortured, who was raped, murdered and thrown, grounded, in the river of Vigo, near the Cyes Islands. I was only twenty years old and all the dreams to fulfill. We think that for the memory of Rosario Hernández Dieguez and of all the Welsh and Welsh people who are in common ditches, pulled out and abandoned, we have to approve this initiative, we have to begin to truly make a public policy of repairing justice and knowledge of truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u112	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Of course, the 36th and 40th Wars of dictatorship left an unusual, impressive balance of victims of human rights violations and humanitarian law violations. There's no doubt about that, including executions, torture, forced labor, arbitrary arrests, disappearances, exile... and, obviously, we're not talking about political will, this is above any political will, it's an internationally recognized right, the right that victims know and know where their dead are. And the efforts to give answers have been characterized in these years by many and, above all, a huge fragmentation, by disparity of practices. The measures taken did not respond to a policy of neither state nor autonomous communities, consistent, inclusive and global, in favour of what? From the truth, from justice, from reparation and, of course, from guarantees of nonrepetition. There are many blanks and the empty evidence is, above all, on the first two points: in truth and in justice. The current model of privatization, that is, of delegating exhumations and this responsibility to victims and associations, feeds indifference to institutions and leads to difficulties of two types: approval and officialization of truth. That's why we're talking about law, so we're talking about the need for justice areas to also be present in exhumations, because we know it's feasible both technically and materially. So we believe that there must be a complete investigation, a general investigation, and that the exhumations of the ditches must be framed in a much broader plan. And, of course, if we believe in the need for a German law of democratic historical memory, referred to in the 36th War; we do not speak of civil war, because at least in this country there were no symmetrical responsibilities, there was a coup d'état, a coup d'état against a legitimately established government. The absence of an investigation, which is the first step, a very solid and truly complete investigation, is the main obstacle so that the right of truth and the right of justice are not met. We believe that this is the approach, so we believe that yes to the collaboration of the municipalities, but that exhumations should not depend on the municipalities or volunteerism, it is a complex task, which requires specialized techniques, expert teams and experts, archaeologists, geneticists, psychologists, forensics... Of course, the fundamental is also to have archives. We think it is very commendable the work promoted at the time by the BNG and developed by the University of Compostela de Nomes e vocios. But it has to be completed, because it comes to the year 39, and it has continued to kill and continue to silence many and many retaliations afterwards. That's why repair is necessary, too, and so are our amendments; we amend, if of course we accept proposal number two. The DNA bank is very important and we are fully in agreement, but our amendment is going first to draw up a general plan, a comprehensive comprehensive repair plan framed in a broader project that derives from the creation of a Greek law of democratic historical memory, which leads, among other purposes, to the elaboration of the complete map of gaps, with documentation accessible throughout citizenship. The procedure must be based on a rigorous research process carried out by experts and with public funding, and also, of course, by giving a voice at first instance to families. We also amend — we believe it is a substitution amendment — the third point, which is to create a historic documentary centre of memory in Galicia and in the meantime make the necessary efforts to promote access to information and archives. Archives are fundamental, there are private researchers as well. The amendment to addendum we propose is to create a non-permanent commission that heeds the demands of the victims, who listen to the experts, the people, towards the assumption by the Galician institutions of the conclusions of that commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u115	And I'm done. Which reflects the recommendations of the report — naturally referred to here — a report of what I recommend its reading, are twenty pages — it reads very well, and is nesty and very clear — of the special narrative on the promotion of truth and justice, the repair of the guarantees, of Paul of Greiff. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is setting up on this initiative one of the aspects that I believe is the most sensitive and urgent of historical memory. Sensible because from our point of view, of course, all families of reprisals have the right to locate their dead, their murderers, who still in many cases are thrown in an unworthy manner into citadels and mountains. It's a fair aspiration and ethical aspiration, and we believe that a responsibility of public administrations is to respond to these requests, it's a moral duty, in addition, of public authorities. It's urgent, too, because by virtue of existence, the most direct families of the families of the retaliations, the murderers, are disappearing, and also the people who still have and contain oral testimony from the sites of ditches and places of burial. Testimonies that — along with other documentary sources — are essential because — as you all know — in Galicia, the difference in other areas, there are no large common gaps, there are burials of one, two or three murders, at most. This is demonstrated by the data collected by the Names and Voices project, which is also another one that had to disappear from the lack of historical memory policy of the PP. And this project located nearly 500 yards up to 1939 and only thirty-five houses more than ten victims. This has a lot to do with population dispersal, with our socio-economic structure, but also with the way to kill in Galicia, because here in Galicia -- as you know -- there was no civil war, what was repression, what was a policy of terror from the first moment, to structure, to consolidate the structures that wanted to impose the coups, the regime led by Franco. [[Applause]] Because there is no such zone of war, what there is repression, what there is, basically, what is known in historical terms as paralegal repression, a repression of victims of strippers, of the law of escapes, but above all there are walks. The truth is, it's scary to see that in more than 80 percent of Galician municipalities there have been walks, they've been killed this way. That is why the policies of recovery and dignity, which are essential to us, have made it possible for us to bring to this House in 2010 a proposal for a law on the location and identification of missing persons and the dignity of the common dividers, which put forward — in addition to other elements — what Mr Bará is proposing here, a policy of research and dignity, which is the public administration responsible for these measures and the need to create a DNA bank, in addition to other elements. In 2010 the PP voted no, and we lost a lot of time and went on with the victims of repression and with the dead on the hilltops and mountains. A missing policy, a policy that has come to the PP's lack of historical memory policy, which has come to what retaliations would have to be exhumed with aid funds from a Norwegian union. You should be ashamed of them. You should be ashamed that it has to be a Norwegian union who's coming to raise a corpse in Galicia. [[Applause]] But on these issues I have to say, unfortunately, that PP is not ashamed. In addition to that — and if I keep it on these issues — Mr Bará knows that he also agrees with what the Socialists are asking for in the 2007 bill to amend the law, which has already entered and is registered in Congress. Besides other elements, these are what Mr Bará asks, and we do it, among other things, as an obligation to make plans for search and exhumation. And we do it because we believe that the indications and recommendations of all international humanitarian law agencies are about to change the law, change the law. Because we can't forget that Spain is the second most missing country in the world after Cambodia, that's our shame too! [[Applause]] These plans will be carried out by the Director General of Historical Memory, the first to have a government, they will, or will try, be done with the collaboration of all autonomys. If we don't have the collaboration of all autonomys, it will be done the same way. Because you see, ladies and gentlemen — and finished — Mr. Pedro Sanchez's government is taking as a flag the historical memory and the defense of all the victims of Frankish repression. A flag that is raising the Socialist Party, and I have to tell you that we, the whole Socialist Group, are very proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u119	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. In the last debate of the state of Autonomy, the People's Group proposed the adoption of a resolution, the number thirty-six, to, and I quote literally: "Facilitating families of victims of civil war and Frankish repression the location, exhumation and transfer, if applicable, of the remains of their families.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Mr Bará, we did it by conviction, not by necessity of redemption, by conviction, and I must remind you that it was approved with the sole support of the People's Party, with the abstention of En Marea and the BNG and with the vote against the PSOE. That's the PP's commitment to memory recovery, I think I remember. In this initiative, let me contextualize it -- I think I didn't interrupt anyone -- the Galician Union, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Government of Spain, which you leave out of your proposal, so I think it's a clear bet for dialogue and collaboration between administrations. It was recognised, therefore, the need to move forward in the dignity of the victims of civil war and the retaliation of the dictatorship, now that the economic environment allows us to deal with this situation in better conditions, and I must remind you, too, that it has been approved just a month ago, a month in which we have been discussing budgets that are not yet approved in relation to the Union, neither are those that refer to the State, nor are they approved in most of the Greek municipalities. We wanted this to be an instrument for deepening the healing of the wounds of the past and, in addition, we made it by, in a special way, the will of families, and on that path they have the commitment that we will continue to advance in the realization of the commitments of that resolution thirty-six. Today you intend, in my opinion, to distort that resolution in order to make it a claim of its particular—legistimate, but particular—political vision of historical memory, transforming what it intended to be an instrument of agreement into an instrument of partisan confrontation, and what is done is basically to reproduce the government program of the biparty, a program in which it was, of course, included the program Names and voices, which in its second year was financed by the People's Party, must also be said. Unlike other parts, I am convinced that we share the vocation to alleviate the pain of victims, of all families, of all families, of the ditches of Aranga and of the ditches of Camuñas, of absolutely all. What concerns me is that this vocation, in its case, is often accompanied by the attempt to delegitimize democracy born in the 1978 Constitution and the idealization of republican democracy in 1931. And I think there's no reason for either. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to do so, defending the vigil of a constitution of all, and voted by all, and of a democracy that is the source of the longest period of prosperity in our recent history. [[Applause]] I must admit that I am surprised that Greek nationalism is incapable of valuing a constitution that brought the greatest shares of self-government that ever had Galicia, including one respect for our culture and our language that has never been collected in any republican constitution, and you know it. Look, what can't be happening is he's still facing confrontation policy. The BNG seems to have to confront legitimacy lately to play that hobby that they so much like, that of granting certificates of good conduct. They started delivering meats of good and bad Greeks, recently delivered meats of equality, those that were with women and those who were with Manada. That was said here in the House that represents all the Greeks, and today they come to tell us who are with democracy, who are on the left, and who are against democracy, who we are on the right, because in this country there is no right, we are all ultra-right. I want to ask you a little bit of rope, because I assure you that in the far right there is no one else, is that we don't enter anyone else, we're collapsing with space, I really tell you. And I want you to have a conviction, that you can be a Democrat without being a Republican, that you can be a Democrat without a military on the left and that you can be a Democrat without being a nationalist, Mr Bará. I'll pay for it. Maybe, if you can. [[Applause]] Look, on this weekend I have to tell you that Monday I read an article, which I have here, of Mr. Barreiro Rivas, whose title was a joke, which I confess to you that it was disturbing: "The CEDA has defeated the People's Front." I read this the next day to hear statements like, "Anti-fascist alert to defend the values of democracy.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Statements made by the same ones that just a few months ago jumped by overthrowing the 1978 regime and saying to envy the chavista democratic regime. Others said, "Let them say if they're willing for most parliamentarians to condition an extreme right party." Those who said this are the ones who entered the state government with the support of the Catalan Le Pain, Sánchez, who wanted to take us through the path of Venezuela Chavista, Sánchez Dí, and those who defended the democracy of shooting at the neck, that I say. Look, it seems, really, that there wasn't a minute for self-criticism or reflection. It seems, in fact, that we were less worthy of respect for the will of the voters expressed in the polls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u121	...that Mr. Tezanos' supposed CIS inventions. Look, we're not going to admit any more lessons in democracy and we're not going to admit lessons on shame. Those who want to encourage confrontation, with us who don't contain, those who want to work to close the wounds and not repeat the mistakes of the past, who don't look at us at the extremes, we're going to be where we're always, militating in agreement, militating in democracy, and today, more than ever, militating in the 1978 Constitution. Long live the Constitution!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u122	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u123	Mr. Peace, you're the ones who share it are VOX meats and bad Galicians. Is that what you share, aren't you? And after today's sentence, because you spoke of Manada, after today's sentence, of course, we have no doubt that Manada is the system, Manada is the system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u124	That's a little strong, Mr Bará, saying that Manada is the system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u125	Yes, we think Manada is the system, and when they want to, we have a debate about it, which now doesn't touch.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u126	Don't touch, don't touch.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u127	And with regard to the voicer of the Socialist Party, look, I'm convinced... I'm sorry, I don't have my glasses, we share and... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u128	Quiet, quiet. By that time, Mr. Bará is speaking, I don't know if they know. No, no, Mrs. Presas, Mr. Bará is in use of the word. The article of the Rules of Procedure is of course, you cannot interrupt who is in the use of the word, and it is also in your group. Silence to all, it is in the use of the word Mr Bará, please be done, it is done. We respect those who... silence, silence. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u129	I would cordially tell you, Mrs. Burgo, the Burgo, that we must share a lot of things with regard to public memory policies, but if we had to make exhumations with aid from foreign trade unions, and if Spain deals with that sad ranking of missing people after Cambodia, something will have to do with all the governments that were in the Spanish state over all these decades, right? So there are responsibilities here all over the world, and I'm telling you that we think we share many of these principles or all of these principles, and we think we can make a policy, of course, in Galicia very advanced in this matter. [[Applause]] With regard to the amendments of In Marea, we are not going to accept them, not because we do not share the spirit of their proposals, but because we understand that we are having a debate on the exhumation of gaps, and that they distort the proposal that we make by trying to cancel two of the issues that we propose on this initiative, although, I say, we have made a proposal that is registered and that we will bring the debate in the plenary on the Greek law of historical memory, and there are gathered many of the questions that you refer to in your amendments. With regard to the People's Party, it seems disappointing to me that you do not engage in concordance, it seems that they still want military contempt and humiliation for the victims, because I no longer tell them to do it for political duty or ethical duty, to do it for a humanitarian duty, which is also very urgent because there are many families that are still waiting and many very old people who are waiting for the opportunity to embrace the remains of their parents, their mothers, their loved ones. And I think it's absolutely inhuman, and especially today that we're talking about the Gospel so much and about Christianity; although it's all about it, they should aim, join and support this initiative, which is not the initiative of the BNG, I assure you that it's not the initiative of the BNG, it's the initiative of human rights, the UN initiative, the initiative of the people who are fighting around the world, and also in many communities of the Spanish State, to make justice and to make reparation. You seem to want to close that door, we deeply regret it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u130	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the position of the Galician Parliament with regard to the intentions of the central government regarding the implementation of beaches on the highways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u131	There is an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u132	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u133	Thank you again, President. Well, this initiative that we presented a few weeks ago comes from an announcement that we don't know whether it's a balloon probe or what it is; we don't understand very well the reason for this announcement from Mr. Abalos on a proposal to pay fees on highways that are currently free of payment. It's an announcement that, in addition, goes on the line — and this concerns us a lot — of the proposals that have also been launched in recent times by the great builders, and that they have as their objective to penalize even more private people and also companies for the use of high-capacity routes, highways or highways. That is why the BNG wants there to be a clear and firm pronouncement of this full of rejection of this proposal, we believe that we must close, finish and wind up this debate, and we want to express our resounding opposition, our rejection of a step which seems to us to be regressive, which seems to us a step back, which only has a random purpose, which involves discrimination for Galicia, because it aims to equal the entire state, and here — as we know — we would be even more penalized, because we have lower wages and pensions. We think, too, that it is a possible measure that would create economic barriers to access to safer roads, and when we are in a debate, also about road sinality, about increasing mortality figures on roads, it would also be a step backwards. And finally, it also means a disaster for the economic development of our country, for the competitiveness of our companies, in order to be able to move our products to the markets with more guarantees and at better prices. In addition, if all this wasn't enough, it's raining on wet, and it seems to us that it's an ad, an absolutely inappropriate and provocative proposal, considering the scandalous situation that we've been suffering around AP-9 with the recent price increases of 4%, and 40% since 2010, and with new ups already announced immediately, because within a few weeks we're going to have again these new rates of tolls on AP-9; a highway, in addition, which hardly has any bonuses for people and businesses who make a usual use, the difference of other state highways. And the same could be said of the AP-53 case between Santiago and Lalin, which in addition to an excessively high price also has many deficiencies in its access. And we could also talk, to better illustrate this debate, about the high-capacity pathways of the Galician Union, in which there are also clear grievances and injustices, for example in the case of AG-55 between Coruña-Carballo, and also in the case of AG-57, between Vigo and Val Minor, who suffer the proximity of these areas discrimination with respect to other districts which have highways from Galician Union and which have no beaches, as may be the case of Barba, Morrazo or Santiago-Brion. And in which there are simply bonuses — which seem to us too scarce — of the twenty-five percent on the return trip, which has to be on the same day and with the teleplay system. And now we've also received with a lot of surprise and with a lot of disbelief that Galician board announcement of setting up bonuses for night traffic that, as we know, have a minimal incidence and minimum beneficiaries. The BNG proposed in this case is the abolition of the rates, both of AG-55 and of AG-57; it would be a measure of balance and justice for the people who live in these regions. And, of course, in the case of AP-9 we will continue to pay — if we do not logically remedy it, and we have to remedy it — they want us to continue paying those abusive fees for thirty more years, when in these same days we are attending the announcement of the abolition of the fees in other state highways that are of the same time as AP-9, as in the case of AP-1 — between Burgos and Victoria — or in the case of AP-7 — Tarragona-Valencia-Alicante — or AP-4 — between Seville and Cádiz — which will be eliminated by 2019. And all of this is added to the endless list of injuries. And, above all, we have suffered this worst service that we have reported here a thousand times and that has been subject, in addition, to recent parliamentary agreements. And it is that these abuses take place, this scam, with the absolute passivity and complicity of the administrations, both of the Union and the State, who did nothing; they had the opportunity to take steps to curb these abuses and did not do so, especially in the already scandalous case of the blockades and the retentions caused by the works of Rande Bridge. We are still waiting for the State Government, both in the previous and current term, to open the first informative and sanctioning file against Audasa. And look at there's no reason to do it! It is less bad — less bad! — that now the Prosecutor's Office has brought out the colors of these governments with this collective demand for the abusive collection of tolls during the works of Rande Bridge. I'm not going to quote all the text, because really this demand we can say it's a historical milestone and gives an answer — the answer that the governments have not given — to those complaints, to those demands of the people. It is requested in this request that you be given a judgment declaring the nullity of Audasa's practice of charging the fee of the highway in full. It is also requested that Audasa be condemned not to use this abusive practice again in the future on any highway that manages in the state, and we would say that it would be extensible to all concessionaires. It is also called upon to reinstate users the amounts of fees that were paid in the outline of the Rande bridge in that three-year period; we would make it extendable to all cases where there were these abuses, those jams turned into robberies, because, of course, it is not fair that, when a person loses time on the highway, he has to pay the price of the fee. And this claim also calls for a sentencing judgment which makes the payment of compensation consistent to double the amount of the fee to all users. Look, if the Government of the State and the board of Galicia had done what they had to do, this would have been done many years ago, because there were sufficient reasons to take such initiatives, to open information files and sanctions. And we also say -- because we have already said so in the debate that we had in plenary -- that now who has to act after this prosecution action is the Government of the State, who also has to ask for the refund of the money paid by the state to Audasa corresponding to the bonuses, both of the traffic of Morrazo and the Rande Bridge — on the return trip — because they were paid and those services were not provided under normal conditions. And, of course, with regard to AP-9, we now, closely in the state parliament, have the debate about the transfer, that transfer which has been repeatedly vetoed for more than a decade by governments of the state — especially by Governments of the People's Party. And it is a debate in which, as we have said, BNG has also been vetoed, which was — as everyone knows — the promoter, the editor of these texts approved by this parliament. And, curiously, it will coincide that next week's debate with the anniversary of that day of shame on which the People's Party voted here in favour of the transfer and vetoed the transfer in Madrid, the admission of the process of that law passed by the Greek Parliament. That was December 13, 2016. We have to end that veto at once; we hope that legal process will be allowed and that transfer will be made. And that's a first step, too, to end abusive sins. In view of the above reasons, we believe that it is certainly not the time for us to introduce new beaches in Galicia. For BNG it is necessary and indispensable to move forward in the abolition of the fees, starting, in addition, by the peage of Roundola, which also has a unanimous agreement of this parliament to do so. The People's Party didn't do it — it had time to do it — and it's not doing it either, Mr. Sánchez's new Government. And that's why we demand that this decision be made as soon as possible. And, above all, we call for the abolition of the fees in the case of AP-9, which goes on the way of forty years of concession and which is already more than amortized; which is a huge, huge deal for the concessionaire, which enters three hundred and eighty thousand euros every day of fees. We must definitely end the abuse, the scam, the AP-9 cop. That swindle and the swindler that has been made with the complicity of all governments in recent years, both of the Union and of the Central Government. And we therefore want a strong pronouncement from this plenary on this proposal announced by the Minister for Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, the truth is that I had to read again the text of the non-law proposition that you came here to defend, because you found a certain lack of agreement between the argumentary and the proposed text. I mean, the text that you propose refers to a non-existent intention, on the other hand, of the State Government to establish road fares; therefore this is not strictly true. But you've also talked practically about everything but your own initiative. He also spoke correctly in some respects about unanimous agreements in this parliament and, therefore, about that, I don't think it is worth discussing again at this time. I believe that we must put ourselves in context to analyze the content of the proposal and also of the intentions of the Government of the State, and that it has already, in fact, placed with the constitution of a subcommittee. But in any case, I believe that none of us here escapes from the fact that the Spanish State is the country of the world which has a higher percentage of high-capacity roads on the total of the roads it has on the network: more than 16,000 kilometers, which represent more than 10 percent of the total. And secondly, we're the country with more miles of roads like this, high capacity, behind Germany. And that, of course, is that there are other countries, other states in the European Union, which have more area than we do, as is the case with France, to cite simply one. Our parliamentary group has tabled a replacement amendment to its text, to the text you propose, consisting of three fundamental aspects. This is based on the fact that — as you know perfectly well, and I think we all know that we have the responsibility to come here to talk about infrastructures — there is a subcommittee on the sustainability of road infrastructures that will start to work — understanding that depending on the schedule of the Congress of Deputies — in the month of January next year. And there's no prefixed position. It is not true that the Government of the State is advocating that the conclusion of this subcommission should be the establishment of fees; it is simply to ensure the sufficient resources necessary for the maintenance of this extensive network of infrastructures that we have built among all, extensive network of infrastructures that have also suffered a reduction of twenty-seven percent in the last six years as regards budgets for maintenance. And, in addition, what we want — and that is why we want to replace your text — is that we address ourselves to the Ministry of Development for a study that determines a more efficient and less burdensome model to maintain this state-run road network. And we also want — and you have referred to your intervention — to address the Government of the State to establish mechanisms of solidarity with those autonomous communities in which there are state highways of toll — as is the case with ours — with a longer period of concession — as is the case with ours. Of course, all of us here know who we owe the extension of the concession of the highway, because you made reference to the fact that there are some highways that will cease to have fees in the next few days, but it did not refer to that this is not a consequence that the State decides to pay those fees, but the end of the concession in which they were built. And, therefore, about that situation — which is not homogeneous throughout the State with respect to the fees and which particularly impresses our autonomous community — of course, we want mechanisms to be established through funding to enable these deficiencies to be corrected among the autonomous communities. Above all, given that there are some who, by the end of the concession deadline, will have a free network, if we don't have one in our autonomous community. And finally, we introduced -- and it's true, I have to say: you started talking about this, but it's just that in your initiative there was nothing -- the reduction in the rates of self-sustaining highways; it was our group, by way of amendment, which introduced this debate into this non-legislative proposal. So — I insist — we are talking about a will unexplained at any time by the Government of the State, which is intended to amend by means of a non-law proposal in this autonomous parliament. But, in any case, we believe that our amendment puts the issue of the maintenance of the motorway and highway network at its fair point, and we hope to see what is the conclusion of the experts who are going to talk about this matter from January. And we also want you to correct us, see budget, while we do not look for an alternative to the toll of AP-9, and also reduce the fees — because they produce inequality — that are the responsibility of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u137	Good morning. I'm still surprised that throughout this morning, from the popular benches, if you use the word "Constitution" as a fetish, cynically, to even violate the constitutional precepts. That is, the Constitution, an object, is above people's rights, the right to housing, the right to work, and even above democracy. And it's not true: democracy is above any constitution, it's above the arguments of those who violate the progressive precepts of that constitution, even. [[Applause]] And, therefore, cynicism, less. [[Applause]] And even those who are self-denominated constitutionalists — and everything outside constitutionalism is terrorism — are, on the other hand, unconstitutionally blocking the processing of the AP-9 Bill of Transfer. Call me a trick! I mean, you give so much importance to the Constitution... let's go! Well, and on the other hand, Mr Álvarez was talking about the infrastructure data of the Spanish State. And, of course, you said we have infrastructure that's just behind Germany, and it's accurate. It is that you are surely defining an irrational infrastructure development model guided by the interests of the builders lobby. That's why the Spanish builders had a golden time with governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, who made their powers worldwide. Those same builders have been here for years, defending the idea of generalized fees to cover what is the maintenance of a network of infrastructures that has often been built with little rationality. And you just talked about an expert committee, too. Look: the first committee of experts to carry out in Congress of Members with a Socialist Government are experts in tax reforms. That they should once and for all make progressive fiscal reform, and that they should abide by the principles of the Constitution as well, by the way. And for them to pay the infrastructure, the maintenance of infrastructure, health and education, and not to go to an indirect tax system, which weighs more on those who have less and benefit those who have the most. [[Applause]] So the balloon idea of applying generalized tariffs is a measure against the majority of society, against the working classes, which would have to suffer in their daily lives a cost that does not affect them in the same way that affects great fortunes, as it is quite obvious. So, what the initiative is about — we understand that there is no official measure — is a preventive LNP; well, if it is preventive, we are going to support it. Because here we also discussed — and I was in the debate — about the Galician Road Law; not so much did the lords of the People's Party of balloon probes speak, which also, as regards balloon probes, the State Road Law — article 22 of the State Road Law — approved by the People's Party, says: "Article 22.2. The use of the road by the user will be free of charge or may entail the payment of tolls or fees the government will approve." Or the Galician Road Law, passed by the People's Party also: "Article 31, Resources generated by the exploitation of roads. Roads regulated by this law may generate economic resources for the network-holder administration as follows: "Article 34, Modes of exploitation. The network-holder administration, as a general rule, will directly manage and exploit the public domain road, including its crossings, whose use will be free for users unless a fee is established for their use." The ESC, the Galego Economic and Social Council, said this about Article 31: "The ESC stresses the inopportunity of the introduction or consolidation of new charges, since it poses a strong prejudice to citizenship and to business sectors such as transport, with an unsustainable cost increase, which would harm products manufactured in Galicia in the face of those produced in more central regions", etc. He also said, "Although this article only reflects the possibility of financing roads "through the implementation of a fee for the use of the road network", and that its implementation should be established through the amendment of Law 6/2003, of December 9, of taxes, public prices and regulatory exaggerations of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the ESC wants to express its opposition to this as a reality in the informed preliminary draft." Finally it was a reality in Galician Road Law. So both the People's Party and, hopefully not, but it seems that the Socialist Party, agree to introduce this measure which, of course, is not very easy to introduce, because it would provoke a very strong social reaction, but they are actually making a strong effort to introduce the concept that this is expensive, that this cannot be sustained with budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u139	Mr. Álvarez, these are the arguments that neoliberalism always uses to begin to prejudge public services: which is unsustainable. No, it's sustainable if you pay taxes that you have to pay in this country and there's no fraud: if you pay the rent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u141	...if there are no public limited companies listed for investment in the real estate market (socimis), and if there is no tax evasion, tax election, etc. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u143	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr. Sánchez, starting with these last things: man, is it at least that the laws collect the reality of the sins, or are they going to be alleged? For that we already have the BNG proposals, I say - I'm sorry - of the tide; also of the BNG. But in any case, what you're talking about is democracy and Constitution... the first thing you'd have to do would be respect for democracy and believe it, because, as we hear this week in your group and in your party, I think exactly what they put into doubt is democracy -- the internal one, I don't say the external one anymore -- and I think it's the first thing you have to look at your party. [[Murmurs.]] But, obviously, now it looks like the balloon probe is going back. In fact, here we were talking about a balloon probe to set up these pathways that they didn't have before, a measure that we understand totally improvised and little thought-out, but now it adds up to us that it's not true. Well, it's true, it'll be preventive. So, the truth is we're also used to the Socialist Party's corrections this week, first to Susana Diaz's resignation and then to the King's inviolability. Looks like the PSOE is either in it or not. But the thing is that the balloon probe is ordered, just as the balloons were sent from the rise of the diesel or from the rise of social security contributions to the autonomous. All measures against the working class, the middle class, the self-employed, and — I feel I agree with Mr Sánchez — increasing inequality, and in addition to these indirect taxes that I think are coming to grow... [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Vilán, if you'd like to go upstairs... I respected... Mr. President... yes, but if you would like to ask him to respect my shift... [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. President, Calvo Pouso, speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, we are faced with a proposal -- I said -- and a way of working from a socialist government that doesn't seem serious, that doesn't seem responsible, that launches the globe always probe against these middle classes, but that we also believe that it is not guided by public interest. Indeed, they come following a proposal from the construction companies that, of course, have their interests, but we believe that it is generating a huge concern and a huge misunderstanding in Galicia, because, as has already been said here, it causes a concern in a community that is already -- let's say -- with a serious concern about the escalation of AP-9 prices. And this, as it was said, says it on the same week and on the same day that they announce the elimination of AP-1's peas and they raise those of AP-9. The same week and day. And, frankly, we are not in favour of allowing that discrimination to continue to increase with some of the autonomous communities, with Galicia in particular, and we are not going to support measures that do not take this into account and that there is more discrimination against the Greeks. Because this is truly what you feel. This socialist government, on the subject of roads and infrastructure - we comment on it the other day in budgets - the only thing that is bringing is bad news to Galicia, the only one. Not a bid, not one, in these six months. But besides, another balloon probe: we're going to cancel the ICP. The PIC means the cancellation of the highway, the new route of Vigo-Porriño. And what we hear, frankly, is only bad news for Galicia; new works and tenders, not one. On the contrary, and speaking already of peas, which, of course, had already read, and was not originally: the Greek Government thought it was doing just the opposite and preaching with the example. It is the only government, the only one — when ruling the BNG did not do so — who lowered the rates in Galicia, the only one! But in addition, under them generally, and he didn't go back, to an agreement — the president remembered this morning — that it cost Galicia four hundred million euros to pay taxes on the highway — a fee on a state highway, because it's state powers what he was asking for — but it was a Bipartite, BNG and PSOE agreement with the Government of Madrid, and that Bipartite agreement, which cost us seven million euros, has now turned back. But, moreover, not only did he lower the rates of the highways in Greece — from A-55 and AG-57 — but he is already studying and proposing new bonuses — as I recall, Mr Bará — to apply discounts on certain hours in these highways, being like the cheapest motorways in Spain and being thirty percent cheaper than the AP-9 itself. Roads that, when ruling the Bipartite, the BNG, Mr Bará, did not lower a single penny. The only thing you can say is this is the People's Party Government. We therefore sincerely believe that these kinds of proposals are not serious and that they cannot think of communities like Galicia, which already have excessive fees on AP-9, and that they cannot be considered in this way, and less when they are scheduled to open a subcommittee on the subject at the Congress of Deputies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u144	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u145	Thank you. Mr. Álvarez, do you know that saying "when you don't want to do anything, create a commission"? It also applies to the subcommission. Anyway, it seems good to us that there is a subcommittee of study. But, of course, if there is a subcommittee of study, Mr Abalos could remain silent, because it was him who caused this debate, which announced this possible measure. Besides, a measure that came out at the same time as the promoters, the builders, were also asking similar questions. And, as much as there is a sub-committee, of course we defend the legitimacy and capacity, the sovereignty of this parliament to rule on any matter affecting us and, in this case, I think it would be a matter that would affect us, and we think it would be good that a unanimous position of this parliament should be transferred to this sub-committee so that they know what the unanimous opinion is or at least a majority of the political groups of this parliament. I spoke in my intervention on highways of state competence and also on those of autonomous competence, and I referred to the proposals we have moved to this parliament also on motorways of autonomous competition, in which we ask not those bonuses, but the elimination of those beaches, Mr. Fernández Prado. And I also referred to a debate, which is yesterday or earlier, about the scandal that the Prosecutor's Office is supposed to have to intervene by the absolute passivity and complicity of the governments of the Union, and also of the central government, in the face of these abuses of the concessionaire. And I think the prosecution's demand makes absolutely clear the situation we've been reporting for a long time here and out here too. It also points to us, Mr Álvarez, that you have this position when, for example -- I don't know if this is a matter of local autonomy -- in Ferrol, after the change of government, they started collecting signatures to ask for the removal of the rate of access to Ferrol at AP-9. So they should have been a little more coherent. Anyway, as much as the People's Party is now changing their shirts—said Mr. Fernández Prado once changed his shirt; before he was called a change of jacket, you now changed your shirt and now they took the flag of the claim—they were quiet and acting like Mr. Rajoy's palm trees. Because you, until six months ago, didn't say a word; they said "Yes, babana," they said yes to all that the People's Party of Madrid ordered, even vetoing the processing of the law passed by this parliament. Because it was you who watched her on that day of shame on December 13, 2016. And, of course, it's enough for you to talk to us about builders here. You're talking about builders, those builders favored by the governments of the People's Party — starting with the extension of the AP-9 concession, those same builders who were funding the People's Party, as shown in the Gürtel case. So you'd better be quiet and not mention the builders here. We maintain this proposal and we will accept as an amendment to add point 3 presented by the Socialist Party that refers to the fees, to the lowering of the fees in self-government highways; therefore, we keep our text and we include how it adds that third point of the Socialist Party, and we would have no problem voting separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u146	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Dona Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the current pay scheme of public officials of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u147	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The following should be replaced in the text of the resolution: "In point 2 of the resolution of the initiative, where it says: "...total expenditure in public salaries...", it must say: "...total expenditure in autonomous public office"....Additional amendment.The following item should be added to the resolution party: "3.- To be included in the staff panels which form part of the information of the annual general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia the number, categories and remunerations of potential staff and cabinets.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u148	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u149	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We brought this initiative, as we explain in the explanatory statement itself, as a reflection on what the economic crisis and its disastrous consequences meant, as it was felt like a scam for much of the citizenry, which shows it followed CIS after CIS. This perception was generated for different reasons, we explained in the exhibition. One of the most relevant reasons and which, in addition, caused greater outrage to thousands of citizens and citizens is that, while executives applied harsh social and labor cuts to the whole of citizenship, lowering their conditions—repeated—work and also their living conditions, that modus operandi which applied without any kind of courtesy to the majority of society was not equivalent in their application to what they would be to the political class, to the high positions, to managers of all the world's media, and were not even equivalent to meeting the reduction of spending, wages, to the privileges of countless political charges and public charges, while those cuts were applied to all public employees and employees and to all the services of the welfare state. Certain parties and executives, even today, are trying to justify and defend these policies so as not to apply the new forms of wage limitation as an example, which are proposed by different bodies and foundations, and say that nothing is done with these measures. It has come to hear in this parliament that it would not be supported to have low-cost politicians with wages that are perceived by law, which does not mean significant budget savings and which are populist measures. The president of the Union himself said so, when he himself based his campaign in 2009 on denouncing alleged waste in luxury cars and wages of advisors and chiringuits from the Bipartite. That made it possible for him to reach the presidency of the Union, but nine years later, when he has already led three consecutive governments of the majority, these allegations of waste seem to no longer exist for the People's Party. Right now Mr Feijóo defends these astronomical salaries for positions and entities that many citizens and citizens continue to perceive as chiringuits, as we explained in the explanatory statement — this is the case of Suplusa, of the Deputy of Lugo — and now the President is no longer concerned. In fact, more or less during the month of April this year was when Feijóo publicly supported these astronomical wages and his party had approved for the socialist and transiting MP not enrolled in Lugo, Manuel Martínez, a salary above seventy-one thousand euros — almost the same as the President of the Union — who had joined the other salaries he had; it seemed good to him to approve the budgets. One argument that was used to justify this situation — which did not have any kind of logic — was that Suplusa could not work if Mr Martínez did not have this salary, when he was charged as mayor of Becerreá more than 40,000 euros and also had a salary as a non-fifty thousand euros deputy. What we observed was an excuse to put a political clientele and pay with the money of all of us, while we were cut and subsidized in a precarious way the most disadvantaged group. However, last week we were glad to know that the PP has gone back, once we decided to introduce this initiative into the plenary, and that, due to the correction of the People's Party to facilitate the approval of the provincial budgets, which decided not to give you those hundred and twenty thousand euros a year that they had agreed, Mr Martínez — although Mr Feijóo seemed good — was left without the astronomical salary. But it's not the only case. We also know the case of the former leader of the crowning PP in Congress through the press, who is about to lose the presidency that Rajoy gave him in a gas company with another astronomical macro soldier: Antonio Erias, former deputy and list leader of the Crown PP in Congress and friend of former president Mr. Rajoy, who was placed by the former Government of Spain in front of the organized Mibgas market operator in 2015, right now he's about to go... I'm not going to stop because he's probably got another rotation gate for him. It is a replacement that would be part of the renewal after the change of government, as it had in other companies in the sector — such as Electric Network or the Electric Market Operator - Omel. You were, who completed his term as councillor of Mibgas on May 21, 2019, explained in a telephone conversation to Eldiario.es that your contract had a blockage clause in the case of termination similar to that of that president of the Electric Market Operator - Omel, the former State Secretary with PSOE Pedro Mejía, when he joined Mibgas. Mejía was terminated at the end of 2017 in Omel, with a year and a half salary settlement. According to the latest accounts of Mibgas, available in the 2016 commercial register, Erias' remuneration for this exercise, counting variables, grew by 17.5 percent, up to four hundred twenty-six thousand euros, a figure collected at the start of the company's board of directors' salaries, including the president's salary. It is an absolutely scandalous amount, in addition, given that Mr. Erias, after four years in front of Mibgas, received many more criticisms than praises: then, the Minister of Energy Álvaro Nadal, of the People's Party itself—of his own party— arrived to mark Mibgas directly, in January 2017, as one of the leaders of an episode of a strong rise from the light derived from a gas intensification to supply the power stations of the combined cycle, which burn gas in the middle of a cold wave. And this is just one example included in the very tough report of the National Markets and Competition Commission, which is a public body that has criticised the very high staff costs and various issues in Mibgas. He even mentioned the purchase of a vehicle in 2015 for this owner, purchased by EUR 61,440. The citizenry has to scandalize it, and it would scandalize anyone. And we repeat: he was the vice president of the Coruña province for the People's Party in 2004, 2008 and 2011, the leader of the Coruña list for the PP and the energy spokesman for the Congress of Deputies. The salaries of politicians and senior officials navigate, in this way, between opacity and incoherence, and that's the big problem. We do not want to give the debate, or we do not want to give a public debate, seriously and rigorously, and what we do is a terriblely scarce debate on the salaries of politicians and the high positions of public administrations. They are, on the one hand, minority voices — but from our group we share — claiming a better payout from our public office to attract the best professionals to carry out the major reforms and transformations to our state and our country, and then there is, on the other hand, the goat as much as we charge the political class and the countless privileges we enjoy in the face of the common citizenship, to which sacrifices that are inhuman are made. This happens and also exists because there is a terrible perception of corruption, which feels and perceives as generalized among the political class, something to which governments have contributed enormously, imputations and convictions to the People's Party, and also because the level of elected office and high office, unfortunately, in many cases leaves much to be desired, as evidenced by the cases of falsification and embellishment of curricula — type to Mrs. Cifuentes or the President of the PP, Mr. Casado — who also shames the great talents we have in the country and who have to emigrate. The situation on the labour market also greatly makes it difficult to reflect on public remuneration. The data of precariousness, unemployment, the emigration of the best — of talents — and the precarious subsidies do not allow serious and rigorous debate and do not allow the political class to exemplify and dignify our class, because citizenship is a scam. There are foundations such as the foundation There is a right, which has conducted a study analysing the current remuneration system of those responsible — limited, yes, to the state — and includes proposals for improvement to establish a more transparent and coherent remuneration policy and to reduce total spending on public salaries. They say that any revision of the current wage scheme cannot be considered in isolation, but must be addressed within a wide range of reforms: improvement of the internal democracy of political parties; professionalization of the executive positions of public entities, where transparent and competitive processes are included capable of guaranteeing the principles of merit and capacity; the depoliticization of the governing bodies of regulators and supervisors; accountability, and, of course, the fight against corruption. In addition, they say that any change in the wage distribution of public officials should be geared towards bringing and retaining the best professionals, whether or not they are career officials, in order to occupy public positions with greater responsibility, and — I repeat — to the great political, social and economic transformation that both the State and our Greek country need. Of course — they also denounce these organizations, and we share it — if the goal is — which must never be — to place the clientele of political parties — as the People's Party does — it makes no sense to change anything and it is reasonable that we talk about nothing. The reasonable thing is to drop their wages drastically, as these organizations themselves say. In any case, the analysis of public salaries is very complex. We would have to talk more about pay packages than net wages — we can talk about those pay packages in the reply. But without further delay, I don't want to go further into this, and I want to leave something to listen to what the political groups have to say about it. Since we have no data on the situation of the high offices of the Union, the En Marea Group urges this Parliament to urge the Galician Union to conduct a study analysing the current pay scheme of the Greek public officials, and, secondly, to make a proposal that shows a real commitment to establish a more transparent and coherent remuneration policy, in order to reduce the total expenditure on public salaries and, above all, to begin to dignify the political class, political activity, and that citizenship does not continue to be ashamed of the politicians facing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u151	President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I had previously euphoricly commented on Mr Pazos, who was a militant of constitutionalism. I, from this rostrum — because I believe that public rostrums and policies force politicians to give our opinions from this public rostrum — as an Andalusian son, I ask the People's Party not to feed black Spain. Yeah, don't laugh, don't laugh. [[Applause]] I say this because, since this constitutional militancy, since constitutionalism, I ask you or I tell the People's Party to tell the People's Party in Madrid and to tell the People's Party in Andalusia that, for the sake of democracy, — yes! — that for the sake of the Constitution — which we celebrate tomorrow — that for the sake of freedom and equality, they do not enter into alliances with xenophobic political forces, with political forces deeply... tell the mayor of Vilanova. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs]] [[Balbordo.]] [[Applause]] Let's find... If you'll excuse me... [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u152	Quiet, we're done. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u153	If I may, let us look for constitutional and integrative formulas, of maximum democratic integration, so that Andalusia does not fall into the abyss. Yes, yes, because black Spain is there and never stopped being there. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If I can go on, president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u154	Yes, if it can be, on the matter, which is the salary of politicians, that you're winning it here, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u155	Yes, that's why I'm politically speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u156	That's why, right. Well, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u157	Well, coming into the specific and concrete question presented to us by the spokesperson for En Marea — if you can continue — I would say to Mrs Santos: I would not fail to draw attention to the formulation of this initiative, this LNP, and its interrelationship of the explanatory statement with the resolution. [[Murmurs.]] Because it's true that you're not at the best time, you're in some -- we might say -- horrible weeks, how to bring this matter up like this. [[Murmurs.]] Having said this — if you can keep talking about it — I believe that when it comes to government salaries — that we would be talking about the salaries of all public employees — but when it comes to the salaries of political leaders... and I would ask you, Mr President, that now we are on the subject... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u158	You're right, yes; there's a lot of murmuring here. It's very annoying who's in the use of the word. It's normal that... Anyway!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u159	It doesn't bother me, but it's because they can't listen perfectly to what they say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u160	Yeah, let's go over there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You talk later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u161	So I would say to you, Mrs Santos, that in these matters you have to be very careful, because we have to work on the balance of not using demagogy and populism to take the price off and precisely diminish the payout of public function and political function, without which it obviously means not to put barriers and not to limit the abuse of public accounts and salaries. We are, yes, with that transparency that they request and with an additional question that I would like to comment on and which was precisely the reason for the amendment we tabled. It is true that the remuneration structure in the area of local administration throughout the country under the Basic Law has a regulated framework, has a limit framework, and it is true that in the area of the Galician Autonomic Administration there is also an irregular framework of public office remuneration. It calls attention — it is also true — to place the salary of the current President of Suplusa at the highest level of the entire administration of Galicia, at the level of the Radio and Television Company or of Sogama, in group 1 of the instrumental entities. He draws attention to how it is being used — or whether it was being used; I hope this decision will be corrected — Supplied as a formula for buying wills in the area of Lugo, because, without going further, it is true too — and it is documented — that in May they placed fifty-seven thousand euros for the President of Suplusa — that they have never been charged, plus fifty thousand for an exclusive dedication in the Deputies, and now the Suplusa agreement to allocate nearly seventy-two thousand euros — is true — and fifty-two thousand for advisers. I hope that the People's Party, which is allowing the adoption of the budgets of the Deputy of Lugo, will correct this situation for 2019. But it's also true that what needs to be continued is the process of rationalizing the whole body of instrumental entities in the autonomic public sector. That we do not say so from the Socialist Parliamentary Group — that we do — but from the Council itself. Since 2010, the streamlining effort of the autonomous instrumental entrenchment has not ceased to assume less than one percent of the funds being managed, which exceed the 600 billion euros, more than fifteen percent of the autonomous budget; by the way, which is being managed in thirty-seven percent by the agencies' entrenchment. He also says the Board of Auditors: Galicia remains the fifth or sixth autonomous community in number of instrumental entities, one hundred eight — the latest data from the Board of Auditors reported to 1/1/2017. And, finally, I would also like to put on the table — since we are in the current debate on the adoption of the 2019 budgets — the forecasts for 2019; in chapter I — spending on senior positions and spending on potential staff and confidence — 14 million euros. We could compare with other expenditure programmes, such as development cooperation: 4.7 million; solidarity programmes: 1.4; and fishing infrastructures — for example —: 6.1. I know they're going to tell us that they've saved about 20 percent from spending on this Bipartite matter, but it's true that the amounts of expenditure, then, in these programs, of course, were others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u163	And in that sense, we are presenting our amendments to the budgets and the amendments that we are presenting to this initiative, so that there is also, first, a specific analysis for public office, not for all public salaries, which are transparent in terms of possible personnel. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u164	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u165	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. So, the way of the previous question: the scam was to rescue the bank and lose sixty-six hundred million euros out of the wealth that workers and workers generate, and that the Bank of Spain itself recognizes that they will not recover. [[Applause]] The scam was to reform the law to disrupt dismissal, it was to cut the rights of workers and workers, it was to reform by the back door, expressed that article 135 of that monastic and sacred Spanish Constitution to impose before payment of the debt that the maintenance of public services, which are fundamental rights for workers and workers. We don't think you can either have a vision with little depth of the field of reality that we've been living in in the last few years. And just another previous question: there are two social classes, and everyone knows which side he's on in that battle. We agree, from the BNG, with the philosophy that emerges from the initiative that I defend today and which Mrs. Santos presents today on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea in her resolution. We agree to provide — and we have always said and defended — transparency, control and control mechanisms for public money and wages, but not only, but also for investments or aid that are given by the public era. And we will not tire of repeating it once and for all: the public funds that are managed by the administrations—both by the Government of the State, by the deputies, by the municipalities, by the Government of the United States of Galicia— come out of the taxes paid by the workers and the workers. All those aids, all those investments have to be monitored, they have to be controlled. And that's also why we propose every year — Mr Villoslada of the Board of Auditors before — on the part of our group — that the Board of Auditors, for example, administer, the money it receives from private school through educational concerts or contracts with private companies through the recruitment of fire extinguishing air media. That's why we've been asking and we've been over a year -- and we're not the only group on this camera -- waiting for that sponsoring contract negotiated without advertising for the Way Sound. Or the health concerts, for example, with Povervisa, which have also been the subject of debate on this chamber. We agreed to have to broaden the perspective and analysis that we do, that reflection to which you referred to the beginning of your intervention on that great scam that, we insist, goes a lot further. We shared everything I just said and, in this sense, too — let me express it this way, Mrs Santos — it seemed to us that he would, at the end — not a resolution, at point 2—, in the hands of the Government itself, of the Union itself — launch a criticism, but at the same time, he would leave it in the hands of the Union itself — to design this proposal to establish a more transparent and coherent remuneration policy. Perhaps it had to come out of this parliament a more defined and clearer proposal of which must be that process or control mechanism that has transparency in what it has to do with that public pay. Just another question, also by extending the depth of the field, by giving greater depth of the field to the debate: what makes it possible to have a decent salary and remuneration — and I am there entirely in agreement with Mr Villoslada — of public representation, whether political or any other part of the administration, is that workers and workers may also be in this parliament. Because if there is no fair remuneration for public representation, only those who have economic resources — the great capital, the entrepreneurs; only they — could perform the representation work in the model of democracy that exists so far in this country. We can't — and I agree with Mr. Villos — fall into demagogy, because then we're playing the game to whoever defends that only a few can be part of this camera. We understand that what there should be here is more workers in the sea, more workers in the countryside, more workers in other profiles than just public service. And many times, in many cases, the system of what we provide, which governs and still governs in the Spanish state, rather than guarantee that access, which often does it is to put weights so they can be here, for example, people who work autonomously. There's nothing else in my band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u167	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as a matter of precedent: Mr. Villoslada, if you come here to give us lessons from whom the People's Party may or may not agree with, when the Socialist Party is ruling in Spain with the votes of the independentists, of the Bildu, of those who said they were going to enter the system to bring it down from within and those who pay for ministers at the Congress of Deputies, it is not enough to be funny, Mr. Villoslada. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, yesterday, when they told me that an initiative was welcome, I thought it would be this, because seeing the week that the tides of We can be discussing salaries and wages, transparency, concealment, voting system and so on, I told my colleague Raquel Arias yesterday: bad week, Mrs. Santos, to present this initiative. But, well, given that you don't smell at all and you don't want to be bled and you want us to stay here and make it easy for them to put their rags on their minds publicly, we're not going to give up this debate. First of all, I want to deny the biggest. You say on your own initiative -- and you said it here -- that the People's Party Government since 2009 has not reduced the costs of cabinets, eventual staff and high offices at all. You said President Feijó didn't do anything to reduce this, that in the crisis, he had just dropped his salary to the officials, that people were going through a lot of trouble and that politicians didn't do anything. [[Murmurs.]] Well, no, it's absolutely false. Look, you say where they are. So on the website and on the transparency portal you can access all the salaries of the high charges. And in the budgets we are debating right now in the House, you have also tabled amendments, precisely, to withdraw even personal confidence from your own group at the Bureau of the House. So tell me you don't know where the wages of the high office are the truth is to miss the truth, Mrs. Santos. So look: the possible staff expenditure of the Galician board from 2009 to 2019 — and you can check with the 2009 and 2019 budgets that we are debating in the House these days — is a thirty-seven percent lower than when the Bipartite ruled. And, in the same way, the amounts of reductions in high charges had a reduction, from 2009 to 2019, from 46.58 percent. If you don't think so much about it... it's true that I think it's a quite substantial decrease: fewer advisers, less trusted personnel, less high charges, more adjusted wages than when you ruled the left, more transparency and more control, Mrs. Santos. We ourselves, in this chamber, have lowered our salaries and we don't raise them again, we don't recover them. Yesterday, at the Congress of Deputies, his colleagues also voted to increase the salary of Members and Members by 2.5 percent. I suppose that's also the scandal, Mrs. Santos. I suppose that's the shame and I suppose it'll be a scam for you too. [[Murmurs.]] I guess he'll come here and say it. The current president of the board charges less than the vice president of the board of Galicia when he ruled the Bipartite, Mr. Quintana. The executives of the public authorities no longer charge what they want, Mrs. Santos, no; now there's a control over the wages of the high office. And, of course, if you say you're populist that we criticized in the campaign something we didn't do... that's absolutely false. What is populism is to bring this initiative to this chamber today when you know that in these nine years of the People's Party's government, the wages, the number of high offices and potential staff have been reduced. [[Applause]] And as for any staff, let's not do demagogy, Mrs. Santos. Because, look: you have your head counsel there who, in addition to your debt, also knows this, and also wrote about the need for cabinets to be able to push political action. But not only him, Mr. Julius Ferreiro: "We've been slowing down cutting advisors." If we want to bring qualified professionals to politics, we have to pay them well, of course! [[Mr Prado del Río shows you a document to the members of the House.]] You, who talk about job insecurity: if you want a qualified professional, of course you have to pay him well, they won't want to pay him eight hundred euros, at best, to a qualified staff. Of course you have to pay him well! Or not? Well, you also say you have to place the clientele of political parties. That's what you say. Erregón: "It is necessary to leave popular institutions seeded to take refuge when the adversary governs." To place militants, supporters and signatories, you know how to do it very well: in Santiago, Mr. Martiño Noriega, and, in Coruña, Mr. Julius Ferreiro. [[Murmurs.]] The entities subsidising — quite well — perfectly place the signatories of the different tides. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you come here to talk about wages. They've been here ever since the legislation began arguing if they gave more pay, secretary and official car to the Acting Spokesman, to Mr. Villares, until today. That I also don't know what they want us to keep cutting. In any case, Mrs. Santos, we agree and we are going to vote on this initiative. Although, with the PSOE amendment, the PSOE doesn't want to talk about Spain, he just wants to talk about autonomy because, of course, we have the most expensive government in Spain. That's why you don't talk, you're not ashamed of what Mr. P. Sánchez is doing, not the shame he takes Falcon to go see a concert by The Killers, which costs five thousand six hundred euros in Falcon time. That's not your shame. [[Murmurs.]] Not the shame that increased the number of ministries, right, and all the ministers who are under suspicion of tax evasion. That's not the shame, Mrs. Santos! [[Murmurs.]] You have a selective shame, Mrs. Santos. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u169	That's selective shame. [[Applause]] Of course, you don't want to talk about that government. He doesn't want to talk about the government that supports and what the tides of Podemos are complicit. [[Murmurs.]] Because that government of Mr. P. Sánchez... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u171	...is ruling thanks to the votes of the tides of Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u172	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u173	We are and are going to vote in favour of this initiative as it is, although we understand that at the second point, when you talk about public salaries, you refer to the first point — public representatives. I understand that you don't want to pay off all the staff members, I understand that's the case. If so, I hope you will clarify me in your intervention. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u175	Thank you very much. I'm a little puzzled because I think you're confusing debates. I'm going to answer all the speeches and clarify what we have to clarify. I appreciate the reflections and I thank more than others, because the first thing I said in my speech is that there was a serious and rigorous debate on these issues, and I made a lot of arguments. And a lot of the things the groups said here is because they didn't listen to what I said, because if they heard what I said it's impossible for them to answer what they said. I mean, they've already brought the speech prepared and they haven't answered anything at all to the reflection I myself gave. One thing is political proposals; and read none of them, read who has cases of corruption, who has stolen from the public and who has made all atrocities against the majority of society, and that's why the CIS shows, as I explained when I presented the initiative, that it remains the biggest concern, after unemployment and work, corruption. So one thing is the political proposals that organizations can make themselves self-established wage constraints on the other side — which in the initiative I have not seen in any case — that we say the political representatives — Mrs Paula Prado, of course, this is for people who have a political representation or designation — three minimum wages or six salaries. What we were asking for was a serious proposal and a rigorous debate. What happens is that, at best, there are parties that in their programme, including the Socialist Party, do not want to make any exemplary policy of voluntary wage reduction, as we do — with our differences — the Marea Group, where all Members of the En Marea Group voluntarily charge less than the rest. I understand... this is voluntary, it's a political proposal, it's a voluntary political proposal! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please let me finish! It is a political proposal and each one makes the political proposals, in his political programme, which he considers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u176	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u177	...in an attractive way for those who consider it. And to the great honour, to the great honour!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u178	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u179	And it bothers a lot, it bothers a lot. We do it, we do it with what we promise, and that's, at best, what irritates. Then, on the other hand, we can get into nuances or whatever we want. [[Murmurs.]] But not populism, done. [[Murmurs.]] So, of course, political activity cannot be restricted to officials and, of course, I said it clearly when I presented the initiative and when I exposed it here, of course. Because the only reflection would be - although there are things I don't agree with - was the BNG. Of course, I think it's incredible that these ampoules are lifted when there are people who are charging subsidies of €400 and €50. What we have is to rise the life and dignity of everyone's life and, of course, bring the best talents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u180	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u181	...that there is a debate and that we would give it up in a way. I clearly explained it at the exhibition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u182	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u183	Mr. Erias and Mr. Martínez didn't say a point, they didn't say a point!, with astronomical wages and rotating doors up to the party clientele.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u184	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u185	And I talked about the proposals for organizations and foundations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u187	...for all governments, for all. Only there are cases of scandals, convictions, beautified masters and lots of questions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u188	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u189	...that this honourable Member does not invent them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u191	That I am, unfortunately, part of political communication...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u192	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u193	...of this country to the majority, and that's why we have to set an example.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u194	About the amendment of the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u195	I accept the amendment because I understand the nuance that Mr. Villoslada explained to me before presenting it. I don't share for nothing his exposure, and each one has to be consistent with his proposals, both program and subsequent, when he accesses the Government. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Thank you, your time is up. After this debate I just want to clarify one thing. [[Murmurs.]] Please be quiet. I would like to make it clear that I am the President of Parliament and a member of the Bureau. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what I want to make it clear. [[Balbordo.]] Now, the disputes you have, that's not my problem. All Members here are charged exactly the same. The debate died there; now, from there, that is no longer my question. [[Mr. Calvo Pouso: Indeed.]] [[Murmurs.]] We're going to vote on non-law proposals. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the Parliamentary Group... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is everything already traded and talked? Okay, so we're going to vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u197	We started by voting for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Raquel Arias. There's a transaction proposal. If you don't read it, Mrs Arias. Give your voice to the scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u198	Yes, thank you, President. What we are voting on is: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Presidency to request the Government of the State and the political groups present in the Congress of Deputies, and in the framework of the work being completed by the Sub-Commission for electoral reform, created within the Constitutional Commission, to urgently amend organic law 5/1985, 19 June, the general electoral regime, in the articles concerning the exercise of the vote by Spanish residents abroad, so that they can exercise their right to vote with the same assurances as residents in Spanish territory, eliminating the (rogo) request for vote, combining all possibilities of electoral participation that are possible and simplifying the procedure for the benefit of efficiency and agility". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u199	We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Raquel Arias Rodríguez and nine other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the amendment of Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, of the general electoral regime, as regards the articles concerning the exercise of the vote by Spanish residents abroad. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66; votes in favour, 6. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u200	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. There's also a transaction that made me come in. Do you want to read it? [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Vote by points. Can you tell me how to separate the dots? Two points? [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, I didn't know I had two. [[Murmurs.]] I could have five, so it would be another question. If you have two, then we vote first. We vote. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the transport services to demand that are being provided in the most neglected rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this text is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u201	Let us now vote on the second point. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the transport services to demand that are being provided in the most neglected rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u202	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Patricia Otero. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and to the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero and Da María Dolores Toja Suárez, on the elaboration by the Government of Galicia of an integral nautical-fishing training plan for the Lucensian Navy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 40; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u203	We are now voting for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Mr. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García and Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the defence by the Greek Government of a strategic plan for Galicia towards the next period of the common agricultural policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u204	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Tellado. Amendments to the three groups that made them were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand of the Government of Galicia to the central government for the signing of the order of construction of the five F-110 frigates of the Spanish Navy on the Navantia shipyard, in the district of Ferrol, as well as the guarantee of the technological investments and the infrastructure necessary to promote the conversion of that factory into a 4.0 yard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u205	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] Ask Mr. Paz for a word. What do you want the word for, Mr. Pazos? Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u206	Thank you, President. We would like to ask for a separate vote on the first point of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u207	Do you accept, Mr. Bará? Yes. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] So, first of all, we are voting on the first point of this initiative. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Wales in relation to the victims of the Francoism buried in common pits in Galicia, as well as those initiatives promoted by the Central Government or by autonomous communities in which missing people exist. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u208	We are now voting on the remaining points of the initiative. We vote. Vote of points 2, 3 and 4 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Wales in relation to the victims of the Francoism buried in common pits in Galicia, as well as those initiatives promoted by the Central Government or by autonomous communities in which missing people exist. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Therefore, points 2, 3 and 4 of this non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u209	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Bará. There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on which Mr Bará said he would accept point number three as an addendum and also, if necessary, a point vote. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Yeah, what do you want... [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez: I also want to request a point vote.]] He called for a point of order. How many points are there? Two. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, with the amendment incorporated, we voted, first, point 1. We vote. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament with regard to the intentions of the central government relating to the implementation of tariffs on the highways. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u210	We are now voting on the second point of this initiative. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament with regard to the intentions of the central government relating to the implementation of tariffs on the highways. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u211	Finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Ms Carmen Santos. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the current pay scheme of the public officials of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u212	They've finished voting, open the doors, please. We're continuing the interrogations. But before I wanted to greet the third and fourth ESO students at the Sanxillao school in Lugo, who also come with their teachers. Welcome to Parliament! Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the management of the Government of Greece in the field of health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u213	Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Our approach to this question seeks to make an analysis as analytical as possible within the times and framework that we have available in these parliamentary debates and power, through the analysis of certain data, to conclude or, at least, to try to expose the concerns or concerns that each one of us, on behalf of each group, has about the health situation in Galicia. I'm going to do it in what it has to do or something similar to what might be a minimally academic proposal to come up with certain data and some conclusions about the data we've drawn or extracted through them, and that could be contrasted or not with what the Government of the Union has. By giving some data, and appealing to the health barometer, which we consider to be a pretty reliable source, in the last commission, on which you came, of budgets, said that any survey that had less than 3,000 participants in an autonomous community was not to be trusted. [[Applause]] For us yes, for any minimal expert on the subject is reliable enough, even with less than three thousand is also. The CIS for Galicia envisages fewer than five people, but still the reliability data is quite high as you can check or how you can analyze any minimal statistic expert. For us it's reliable, and it's also one of the questions we've asked you if it's for you and your government too. Data that are relevant to us: the evaluation of users about the system. The assessment that the health system users have in each autonomous community offers a result that puts us in the third worst autonomous community in all of Spain; assessed by the users and users of the system, the third worst rated in all of Spain. More than seventy-five percent, that is, by making it simpler, three out of every four users or users of the system demand changes in management. By giving some comparative data: they value the system well, without the need for changes in Galicia, 24 percent, 23.6%, and in Asturias, 42.5 percent; by catching an autonomous community with a certain possibility of being compared in terms of demographics, in terms of location and in terms of population, approximately in terms of budgeting always with differences. 23.6 percent in Galicia consider it good and 42.5 percent in Asturias. It has increased more than five percent the citizenship that prefers to go to private health this year than to a public regarding last year, in one year, which for us is a worrying fact. Professional evaluation is good. We have highly valued professionals, about the average of Spain, slightly better in primary care, slightly lower in hospital care, but actually close to the average. It's a good rating, which exceeds seven in all professional categories that are evaluated. We have great professionals! But in waiting, for example, more than six months of waiting for a hospital appointment, what do our users say? In 2006, 8.6 percent said they were waiting for more than six months; in 2017, 14.4 percent. It's practically doubled in one year. This contradicted the numbers officially given by the Council. It is true that this is asking users, and the Council's ones no one knows who they are being asked because they are not shared. The final data is shared but not the methodology; not even all queued figures are actually shared, for example, how non-structural waiting lists are not shared. By setting an example of this last health barometer, 14.4% says wait more than six months for an appointment, 14.4% in Galicia; in Asturias 2.4 percent. Fourteen and two. In fact, for us to multiply by seven to another community it seems to us a bad fact. In general terms, what do these data tell us, even if there are some others, but they tell us not to be bored? That citizens are very concerned about health -- obviously it's a field that concerns them -- and that in this case they are concerned about the situation. And they don't blame professionals, who value them well, but they say we need management changes. Professionals are well valued and managers are much worse off. And that's what this data tells us. This makes sense to us, why? Because from an interpretation of this data, which we can interpret as arguments, this is a question of a contrast of visions. There are two models to confront this system. In very academic terms, one is the moral-philosophic model and the other is an economic model. These models could interpret even if the average explains a population or if to see how we treat the population we have to go as 10 percent lower. They could be two visions: a moral vision prefers to see how the percentage of the less favoured population is met and a more economic model aims to see how the average is met, and in the medium it changes everything. From our point of view, there is one of the visions that is predominant, which is the most moral vision. We know — or at least we usually check — that it is not the vision of the Union, that it is an economical vision. Why do professionals value citizens well? Because professionals care for people. Why are mismanagement valued? Because you pay attention to numbers. And that's the vision that we contrast, that we see with the data, and that, by the way, we check when economic views are offered in this parliament when it is said that the terminals are very expensive, and in the People's Party no one is discussing that statement. That's what we're looking at in this parliament, too, and the truth is that it's ideology. Because we're used to saying that here there's no need to ideologicalize health. Of course, not ideologicalize is supposed to have the same position as the Government of the Union, which must be that it has no ideology about health. Yes, it's ideological to defend that terminal patients are very expensive, if it's ideology, even for those who don't share it and we reject it deeply. [[Applause]] We understand it's an ideology, we don't share it, but we understand it, and we understand that those who don't discuss it are valid too. This absolute economic vision we do not share. So what we're checking is that in view of the data that exists, do you really believe that the valuation that is being given satisfies minimal, dignified or fully its management? From our point of view, no, because we believe that we must meet, especially in public services, the most needy population. And you're not doing this service, which appeals to macro data, but we appeal to personal, micro data, as if you're taking care of the most needy people. That's why professionals are well valued, because they work with people, and people are a very fragile, very emotional material, and therefore it's not possible to treat them with an Excel sheet. That's what's been done since this government. [[Applause]] What conclusions do we draw, Counselor? Faced with data showing the need to open, to understand that there is a reality beyond the data closed, written on papers that actually represent anyone, because the measures are abstract data, and they don't represent any real social stratum, what do we check? That we needed the opening of the system. What do we have to do with this need for opening the system? A government that closes itself, even though it manipulates, which overturns the regulation of this chamber, who spits on it in order to twist an investigation commission. You're twisting this regulation to protect yourself, to make or pose a dynamic in which there is only one vision. One may want to reaffirm himself by asking only those who think like him. That's what's called a confirmation bargain. We have put forward another dynamic, for example, through this committee of inquiry on which, by the way — and allow me to speak — is the second time that President Feijóo speaks of it and the second time that he has been blatantly lying. Today he said here in this plenary that there were twenty opposition proposals accepted. Lies. And if it's not easy, come and read them. He can't, because he can't; he can't. But Mr. President spoke twice about the commission, and twice he lied. One thing to recognize: it's consistent, every time it talks about the sanity of the mind. It's consistent. In this research commission, Mr. Counsellor, in which we proposed a need for openness, to incorporate these visions, not only those which differ from the vision of the opposition, and which more or less retain the vision of the Government, or even that differ from all. All options are welcome. That's why from our group, and we also share this idea with other opposition groups, nobody's been vetoed, because no one has to be vetoed to give an opinion. Of course, then the groups will have to support, confirm, validate or even contradict their opinion, for example, when it is said in that commission that terminal patients are very expensive, and the People's Group does not discuss it. Therefore, each one can portray himself later. But it's true that we need all the visions, and they're not existing. And the data tell us that there's a vision of citizenship that since the Government of the Union is not paying attention. Because we've heard here very recently that we have the best time in the history of health in Galicia, and we have the strikes in the CHUS, the ambulance strikes — they'll probably come back — we have hospitals waiting in emergencies, we have the strikes in the CAP. And it seems that nothing happens, and we actually have a weak situation, in which we are not paying attention to people. And that's what the data tells us, this data that I've brought you and many more of what we can probably talk about. And in the face of this negationism. And negationism all it does is to pretend to defend a single, unilateral vision, closure, and from it to describe a reality as if it were complete, which is not. You intended to do this, for example, with the area Pediatrics, which had to be invaded because the professionals told you not. They really intend to do almost everything in health, meeting only one criterion. And so the Health Commission has ended, that you are procuring, because you are defending that this is the only reality, when there are many realities in the system that must be met. And then every parliamentary group and the government will have their position, but at least we have to listen to everyone, which is the best way of reaching a conclusion. So even if we all listen to everyone with respect, we could from that opposition groups modify some of the issues we defend, and the government could also change some, or not. But at least you're not even defending the chance that it will happen. Why? Because you — allow me this interpretation — are aware that you don't have the truth, and all you want is to manipulate reality so it looks like they have it and it's unique. And we defend that more people must be cared for and less numbers. So we're asking you in this inquiry if you think this data is valid, it's satisfactory, and if you consider this situation to be real, or it's an illusory situation that we invented from this, and that you have another one that can prove to us that it's more true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u215	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u216	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It's funny, Mr. Torrado, you say you pay attention to people and we to numbers, and the truth is, you only talk about numbers here; besides insulting people who aren't present, the rest are numbers of what you're talking about here. Look — I have to say it and I have to repeat it, and I will not get tired of it: Galician public health is one of the best public services valued by all the Greeks and, of course, one of the best in all Spain. And the implication of Galician union with health is clear: We've invested more than forty percent of all Galician citizens just to get good health. In the years of declining public income, what was done at the Junta was to devote a higher percentage of budget to social expenditure; logically, to the health system. We've made investments to improve infrastructure, new hospitals, modern ones, in vanguard from the point of view of installations and technology, because we've also renewed the high technology that supports diagnostic processes. By the way, this example of the renewal of high technology was copied by other autonomous communities, because an extra funding was obtained, when we had our own funds for this, from a foundation, the Amancio Ortega Foundation, which we have to thank from now on, and then it was easy for all the autonomous communities, in a system that, as I say, started in Galicia. New health centres and improvements to existing ones. We push the use of new technologies to improve attention and bring services to people. Galicia is a pioneer in that area, as is innovation. Through European projects we were able to develop projects such as Hospital 2050-Innova Saúde or Code 100, among others. There's no discussion about the ability and competence of our professionals, proven every day. With their work and the media at their disposal, they pay high-quality attention and develop innovations that improve that assistance and its results in terms of health. We have magnificent professions — logically, you have to say what it is — integrated into a system that works as a system. Because we have to say with satisfaction that the health indicators in our community are not only maintained, but are improved over time; it improves the health system's role. Today in public health, 1,544 professionals work more than in 2008. And besides, we approved the professional career, the first time an ordinary professional career is approved. In fact, starting in January, they'll start charging more professionals from the Galician health system. The 2017-2020 Stability Plan was also approved with most unions to try to stabilize our staff. And now we're talking about a health barometer, because he wants to talk about a health barometer. You just want to talk about a question from the health barometer, but, well, I'll describe something else. The health barometer is an inquiry which has been carried out since 1993 by the Ministry of Health through an agreement in collaboration with the CIS — they are known these days for the predictions the new director is making — in which it is asked about different issues relating to the assessment that for the population has health in Spain, with particular emphasis on the National Health System. As experts always warn, surveys must be interpreted with caution. The barometer consists of multiple questions that address different aspects of assistance and, although they can be answered by a different number of people, they all make sense. You refer to one of them, to general satisfaction, but there are many more — between sixty and seventy — and all must be taken into account to have the most complete picture of the public health system set that can provide this instrument. The system functioning is satisfactory for most citizens. On a scale of 1 to 10, 86 percent, you get a score equal to or greater than 5, and 52.2 percent, equal to or greater than 7. The average of Galicia is 6.49 points over 10; the average of the National Health System is 6.68. If we analyze the trend since this question is asked — year 2002 — we will see that 2017 is the year with the highest assessment of each year. In 2002 the score was 5.40, occupying Galicia the last place among the autonomous communities; in 2008 it was 5.87, occupying the penultimate place, and in 2017, the year with the highest score, 6.49 — as we say — all these years. I remind you, by the way, that under Galicia is Andalusia, which has an inverse evolution to Galicia; precisely, its descent. But let's go to other aspects evaluated in the survey: As for primary care, the score is 7.54 points, with 88.5 percent of users of these services in Galicia who consider that the attention paid was good or very good; the figure slightly higher than the state average. 78.8 percent of Galician patients who were cared for in hospital external consultations by medical specialists refer to good or very good care; external consultations, 78.8 percent. 72.8 percent of the people who had income in public hospitals in the Galician Health Service say that the attention received during their stay was good or very good; figure below the state average. In this case, for example, people who refer to hospital admission in the last 12 months are thirty-six. I don't know if for you an inquiry with thirty-six people in an autonomous community is relevant or irrelevant. Of the people who use public emergency services in Galicia, 82.7 percent refer to good or good attention, compared to 78 percent of the National Health System; six points above in emergency care. As for the choice of private health in front of the public in primary care, according to the barometer, in Galicia the highest value in the series was in 2006, 29.49 percent. I mean, how much and what percentage would you prefer to use private health care in primary care? A 29.49. In 2017 – this last survey – is 18.4%. That is to say, eleven points less this 2017 than in 2006, I think that the Bipartite ruled and that the health advisor was from his party. And besides, we're at 18.4% in this parameter, and the average national level is 25.7. And I repeat: let's give the barometer its value, about what it refers to trends about overall valuation, not to an isolated value. For example, the Community of Navarre, having a 7 in satisfaction — above us — from 7.7 percent in 2016 to 24 percent — more than three times the increase — in preference to private primary care. It goes up, although the degree of satisfaction is seven. If we analyze hospitalization, in 2009 private preference in Galicia was 26.1 percent; in 2017 the preference in hospitalization is 16.8 percent; that is, we lower ten points in this period from 2009 to 2017. This means that people, of course, in case they need hospitalization, that is, severe pathology, prefer to be hospitalized in a private hospital. And we're also far below the state average of the National Health System, which is 26.4. We, as we said, are at 16. And if we analyze all the variables, we can go and see what the trends of our community and the whole of the National Health System and compare ourselves with others. With all this information, we can say that, as there is always room for improvement -- not discussed -- the public health of Galicia is one of the best public services valued by citizens, and, in addition, upwards. Of course we can't be conformists, but I do think we can be proud to live in a society where public health is the priority, not only for the citizens of Greece, but also for their government. And I want to tell you that I believe that the investigation commission has caught you, because this is the first time that the opposition can have an investigation commission, ask for it in front of a majority group, and it doesn't show up. And then, as the president said, he's dedicated to making comments about appearances where he's not, and not really being where he has to be, which is where parliamentary groups should be. Knowing, moreover, that in your case, in the case of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u217	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u218	...this is joined by the Committee on the Marines; the Committee on Health, finally on your part, was trying to follow the Commission on the Marines. Of course, as I say, we are in a period of continuous improvement, and this is a fundamental task of the entire public system in Galicia, and we will continue to be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u219	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor on his replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u220	Thank you, President. Yes, the absolute majority of the Socialist Party in this parliament is the one that allows us to place the commissions of the Marshal and of Health together, which allows us to delimit the visitors, and that our absolute majority is the one that allows us to direct the commissions, and so we can put them on each other. I'm sure it's a strategy of the Socialist Party, which has a very clear majority in this parliament and can do it. See if you're going to be wrong about criticism, and it's the other way around. [[Applause]] But finally! By the way, Counselor, a week ago an associate you proposed said the terminals were very expensive. He's been saying nothing about it for a week, and he could mention some reproach or some comment against it, if he thinks that his government is against those claims. I could — I say — solve some concerns. Another question: you mentioned here that we insult him, usually he goes up here and says that the others insult him — he never set an example, but he says we insult him; he's fine — and I'm just talking about numbers. Man, remember that every time I brought up here some individual cases of outcome by waiting lists, you said they were anecdotes. I agree: if I bring you cases of waiting lists, they're anecdotes; if I don't betray them, I'm just talking about numbers. Then I agree. I enter the debate in the framework that you define, but keep a criterion, which is quite reasonable. By the way, there are no thirty-six polls, this is the number of people who answer a given question. But, well, it's a more technical thing. Tell me that I only mention one data, and the truth is that I mentioned a lot: I mentioned the tendency to prefer private over the public, that one year has increased more than five percent; I gave the fact that we are the third health assessed by the citizens; I gave the fact that more than seventy-five percent prefer, need or demand changes; I gave the fact that there are nearly fifteen percent of the citizens who say they are waiting for more than six months, compared to 2.5 percent of Asturias. And I'll give you another, since you've mentioned the new technologies: we're -- we're citizens -- under the Spanish average using technologies. We can give all of these. I'll give you another, too, about the preference of the private or the public. You were specializing in primary care. And I've already told you that primary care professionals are better rated — slightly — than the average of Spain; but professionals are well valued, not management. But in hospital care, look: in 2016 one out of four preferred private care rather than public. This year almost one in three. You're getting closer to one of them, and surely your goal is that at the end of the legislation, as many people as the public prefer private. And if I had a chance, that you won't, to be an advisor in the next legislation, I'd probably prefer everyone to prefer private. But this is a model question. So what we're defending is that it's a matter of checking out other models. See more data if you want: you claim here that there are more professionals. I give you the data not from the Socialist Party — not even from the CIS, which you may disagree — I give you the budget data, which makes you your advisor — or from Fedanda; I know that you are intervened by a Fairy Officer, but does so by your Government, the budget and memory of the budget you deliver each year in this parliament: in the 2018 budgets they said that Sergas would have 35,011 professionals; in 2019, 35,026 — over—. See if they're going to multiply by 100 and say this out of the thousand quinky; fifteen, not a thousand quinky, fifteen! By the way, most of them are not covered squares. But fifteen in your budgets. Can you explain to me — and this is already a question, it's not in the interpellation, but to see if it's possible — why do the budgets say it grows in fifteen people and you here say it grows in a thousand five hundred, if it's possible? He'll probably say something else that's not true. You have given some data that are not accurate. I'd like that when he reads the CIS data... he said several, but he actually gave some data that is not the data that appears in the CIS, unless you have some other data. You haven't answered me about the ideological position, if you think it's satisfactory at the CIS level, because the average ratings in some cases you might like, because not all ratings will be negative, or if you really think you have to attend to a population that, in that space -- is famous ten percent; at least in conceptual terms, the less favored population -- needs to be better cared for. He didn't really answer me anything, and he planted it in another way to finish it: when we talk about this evaluation of user satisfaction levels with the system, there are others who have a better situation. By reading the first four: Cantabria, Euskadi, Aragon and Asturias. Allow me to happen: you don't rule health in any of the four, but these are the four systems best rated by the citizens. I had a teacher who always thought that, when you defend a model -- political too -- the question is where you want to look. Who do you want to look like in Galicia with these four? Because I understand that there are things we'll be better at, and so it'll be fine, but there are things we'll have some model reference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u222	I'm done. Cantabria, Euskadi, Aragon or Asturias: in any of the four we could have a good comparison on various data to improve. What model do you want to look like? Because you might prefer to look like the American model, which we don't share so much. But if you have any preferred models, please, can you answer us, since you don't answer the questions of the interpellation? And for now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u224	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that, to begin with, I should respect the colleagues of this parliament, because of course, the appearances in the commission of inquiry are not made by this one who speaks to them or by the council, but by a parliamentary group, which is the Group of the People's Party. Which, by the way, included people who had been proposed by other groups. Look, if there's anything no one's satisfied with, it's waiting. Last Thursday, the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare published the report on waiting lists of the National Health System. He probably didn't have time to see this note. In this report, Galicia, with 60 days of medium-surgical waiting, is the fourth autonomous community of the state with less average delay; in particular, after La Rioja, Madrid and the Basque Country. Galicia thus consolidates trends in recent years: 33 days below the national average, which is 93 days; 33 days less. And as far as consultations are concerned, Galicia's waiting is 37 days; 20 days less than the average. Curiously, I have here a painting that references the barometer, the score on the barometer and waiting, because I think waiting is why most people protest, and it's reasonable. Extremadura, 6.61 on the barometer, in this question you take isolated; 105 days waiting. Strangers wait 45 days longer than the Greeks to be operated. Castilla-La Mancha, 6,65, 137 days; 77 days more than the Greeks. Aragon, 7.29.80 days; 20 days more than the Greeks. The truth is, it's curious. But look, this is in the statistics published by the National Health System. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm saying you haven't been paying attention to this data this week. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] We can also analyze the report published in The Lancet magazine that measures quality and access to health care no less than in 195 countries, Spain among them. It publishes a report in the year 2018 corresponding to the year 2016, and there is a previous report published in 2017 corresponding to 2015. We're actually talking about 2015 and 2016. In published in 2017 Spain ranks number 8, published in... It is true, in the following year, in 2018, that corresponds — as I say — to 2016, the post is 19. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We also need to read this report carefully, not just be at the ranking, because it turns out that the index score that measures quality and access to the health system is higher in the last one. Very important is access and quality, which we're at 92 over 100 points. So, although there's room for improvement, I have to tell you that in the vast majority of indicators we're above 90 percentile, eh! That's what The Lancet publishes, and in some case 100 percent. But if we want to talk about Spain as a whole, we can mention more studies, such as the Bloomberg report, published in September, which places the Spanish system as the third most efficient in Europe and the third in the world. The Inter-American Development Bank is talking about efficient spending on healthier lives, and once again it expresses the importance of efficiency in the management of the health system. Like I say, he talks about a lot of countries... let me, please, talk. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u225	Mr. Torado, please, when you were talking, they wouldn't interrupt him, so... No, they never interrupted him. No, they didn't interrupt him. So please don't interrupt, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u226	With all this information that everyone can interpret according to their criteria or interests, we can say that, as there is always room for improvement — something very present in the field of health — we can be proud of the health system we have. In Galicia, in addition to taking into account the studies published, we listened carefully to the patients. As you know, we've had the Advisory Council since 2011 and the reform of the Health Act. We not only gave him the rank of law, but we also created the area council, which is already forming right now. What conclusions do I want to draw to answer your questions directly? That the functioning of the system is satisfactory for most citizens. On a scale from 1 to 10, 86% is equal to or greater than 5, and 52.2 is equal to or greater than 7. The Greek health system shows a clear trend of sustained improvement over the years, and logically the idea is to continue to improve. And with respect to users' preference in choosing a private center, we're among the least-priority groups that puts people in a private center.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u227	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u228	Please interrupt Mr. Torrado, let me finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u230	The barometer is a survey of the limitations that the polls have; and the value, trends and whole valuation cannot be an isolated value. And to say that this is the operating graph of the health system, the barometer. As you can see, on promotion. There's another graph, which is also a political barometer, which is the votes of the Socialist Party in the last autonomics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u231	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u233	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the reform of the common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u234	Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Counsellor, although it seems like an obvious thing, we are in Galicia, one of Europe's regions that stands out by the alarming decline of its rural economy and its depopulation. Here in Galicia, the CAP, its objectives, and more those that have applied them and applied them, you, have failed sharply. They didn't achieve, globally and fairly, taking advantage of the endogenous potentials of our agricultural production model. The Spanish State has transferred its powers in agriculture to those nations and regions with their own realities, which is our case. The flexibility provided for in the state strategic plans has a centralizing character that does not fit with us. More subsidiarity is equivalent to greater responsibility for defining, implementing and managing the CAP in a country, Galicia, glove and agriculture, with a climate of Atlantic microclimates and with its own structurality and tradition and uniqueness in the face of a predominance in the state of a predominantly Mediterranean and radically different agricultural sector. How to ensure that the Greek interests are respected and cared for by the CAP on an equal footing, as is their case, without a clear position of country on the part of the Government of the Union. Because the Conseilaria do Medio Rural has a duty, the government who governs, to defend all sides, against whoever it is, the interests of Galicia, but you have already abandoned this defense before going into trouble, with a position of state that does not correspond to you, forgetting your obligations to the Greeks and the Greeks, to your lives, to your future. They have already opted for the strategic plan of the state and have renounced a strategic plan of Welsh. The truth is, you don't believe in this country. Not in vain, your party, the People's Party, is seriously formulating returning the main competences to Madrid rather than sinking into self-government. So they know that, with the Greek field, this attitude of abandonment could well bear the name of betrayal. Tell us, Counsellor, will you bet on the well-sized family exploitation model or macro farms? Are you going to defend a Galician strategic plan within a state framework? Are you going to recover the comarcas offices so you can develop the counselling programs or are we going to continue in the hands of product advisors-sellers? Are you going to continue Bantegal allowing an abandoned land to be classified as a forest for more than five years? The hedgehogs, stone bristles, we arrive, are going to continue to be discounted in the aids of the CAP? Madrid has never understood it, you think it's not because they didn't defend it or defend it. In the meantime, in Holland, they charge for setting mushrooms. The water rafts are also discounted in the meadows, the green filters around the streams; this is the country of thousands of streams of water. These are some examples of the non-existent defence of our interests in Europe by the People's Party, always subject to high designs that go beyond the provincialist captives of which we nationalists make the central axis. Because the resources and interventions of the CAP must be planned in a manner close to the realities of each area or region, taking into account a handful of aspects: agricultural vocation, social reality, distribution and property size and characteristicity of this — brotherly property, for example — population, use... If we subject our realities to the designs or agreements of a state strategy we are lost, because if we do not properly understand these realities and guide the objectives of favouring a competitive and just rural economy, which commits population and incorporates young people, the new CAP can succumb to Galicia in a greater regression than becoming a vast desert of eucalyptus and pine, because the measure that we lose agricultural area, population and productive capacity, emerges a clear shift of interests contrary to the objectives of the CAP: unmediated forestry, energy production, spoliating mining. Yes, Counsellor, the lack of competitiveness and dynamism was taken advantage of by the forest industry to establish the supremacy of invasive forest crops, destroying the multifunctionality of the rural, its economy, and occupying vast mountain ranges, even converting land from logging into eucalyptals. These last ones, they're on the 100,000 acres. But let us get into flour, because, Counsellor, what BNG wants to talk to you about, today and always, is the need for a new rural agricultural policy in the European Union, which tends to correct the strong imbalances between sectors and countries and which really contributes to a developed and respectful sector, at the same time, with the environment. We want to tell you that this proposal for reform of the CAP will not change anything in this direction. We are very afraid that we are talking about a transition from the CAP to a total liberalisation in 2027; a CAP that does not respond to the problems facing agriculture, in the European Union and Galicia, nor to the expectations of demand and demands of citizenship. This is a proposal we do not agree with, but not because of reform, but precisely on the contrary, continuing with the previous guidelines in some basic respects: liberalisation of the sector or disengagement of aid to farms. In this sense, we believe that there are three fundamental problems that condition and hypothesize this reform proposal, making the principles proclaimed in the document — which in some cases we share — not correspond to the concrete measures that are designed. Let's see. Problem 1. A model for the construction of the liberal European Union. This is about the budgetary aspect, a small global budget, which has also been reducing, like the percentage of GDP in the Member States, since the beginning of the 2000s. It is also accompanied by a gradual loss of weight of funds for the CAP, and this liberal orientation is also reflected in the regulatory plan of the markets, where we saw the progressive elimination of the various intervention mechanisms in agricultural markets. And this fundamental trend is not changed in the proposals for the period 2021-2027, despite the increasing volatility of the markets which have occurred in recent years. Problem 2. The acceptance that European agriculture and the CAP must be subject to the imperatives of the process of liberalising world trade in agricultural products, as it has been configured within the World Trade Organisation. Problem 3. The current status quo as regards the distribution of CAP funds between the different member states is not changed. We can put in this speech hundreds of trunkal aspects that would appreciate the need to elaborate, possess and defend a strategic plan of Greek. But we're going to be more explicit. As we have already said, everything indicates — and a good deal of understanding on this subject so stated — that this CAP we are going to debate from next summer is a transitional CAP, which prepares for the liberalisation of European and international agricultural markets. It is therefore necessary, essential, to achieve the best conditions for the weak agriculture of this country, because if we do not make good use of the well-orientated resources of the CAP in this next period, especially those of the second pillar, our agriculture would enter into a deadly regression without the possibility of regaining its competitiveness. So it is up to us to negotiate with our own strategic plan that reflects the reality and needs of our country, that it does not make concessions, that it defends, rooting the scandal, conditions that are advantageous to our rural. Because if liberalisation comes — and believes me that they are going — and we have not made the necessary development, it will be late. Development. The second pillar: to fight because it is endowed with resources as until now, at least, and to use it with care, oriented towards strengthening existing farms and the emergence of other families endowed with a territorial, sustainable and logical basis with the country. Diversify agricultural activity. All that we've repeated to boredom. You see, it's gonna be hard to deal with catastropheists today. Yesterday, the agricultural spokesperson for his parliamentary group called us Utopian, believing, perhaps, that we could feel offended. Well, from this indispensable utopia to be able to resist all this traxicomedia, from the BNG we have recast this question: What is the view and position of the German Government in the reform of the CAP for the period 2021-2027? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I had the opportunity to be here yesterday, precisely to know a little about the views of each of the parliamentary groups on the CAP, and after having already held two meetings in Europe on behalf of the autonomous communities — I repeat — accompanying the Spanish Government, Spanish Minister Luis Planas, — I have to say here that the Spanish Government, both with the previous minister and with this minister, is making a strong defense of the interests of the German farmers and owners and also Spanish –, I think that this is not a matter of political colors, but it is a matter of defending our interests, and I have to say, after answering here also a question and attending the debate of the GNP, which I think we speak sufficiently of what is the CAP and what is our position. However, as you ask me again, for I will obviously explain it to you too. The reform of the future CAP is of great importance to Galicia and our rural environment, as it directly affects the drive to socio-economic dynamism in agriculture. It depends to a large extent on the creation of wealth, employment in rural areas and, therefore, on its future. For our farmers, farmers and farmers at CAP is an essential tool, 26,000 people who charge from the first pier, because it contributes to maintaining decent incomes and thus giving continuity to their activity. I wouldn't demonize her so much. We are committed to ensuring that rural environment is synonymous with economy, employment, and the future. We want the agriturismo to be a cause for pride for all the Greeks, both for those who live in rural areas and cities, and that's why we bet on a CAP that allows us to lay those foundations. Mr Rivas, rural is everyone's, too, of these Members and Members, not just the Block, eh! The countryside is everyone's. [[Applause]] As you know, it is currently defining the reform of Community agricultural policy beyond 2020, and I am also telling you that I would like, as a rural councillor, to be able to have that force that you suppose to me, because this is spoken in Brussels, and there we must all be united, Mr Rivas. A policy aimed at meeting the obligations laid down in the Union Treaty on this subject, to combat the depopulation of rural areas by strengthening their socio-economic fabric. The CAP, ladies and gentlemen, is a transversal policy of the Union that not only affects agriculture, livestock and forestry, but also to key aspects for Galicia how it can be the need to fix population in agriculture by sustaining farmers' incomes, which are conceived as those who develop agricultural activity primarily; in fact, they are intended to be the reference to provide the future CAP. These policies are therefore part of the next financial framework 2021-2027, in which it seems — and this is the serious and against what we have to fight, of course, and are being done both by the Spanish Government and by the Greek Government — that Galicia may have a fall in the allocation of Community funds, a loss, which could possibly represent 46% less of those received at the previous stage, if we do not act. That is why since the Union is already working everywhere, even — that of the unit — in coordination with other communities as it can be, for example, Asturias, so that Galicia will continue to perceive the European aid that corresponds to it in the coming years and take account of our specificities in the distribution of these funds. We are acting, ladies and gentlemen, to bring this down and for the European Union to take into account the demographic peculiarities of our land, the good use of European funds, and that, in addition, thanks to this money, policies can be put in place that help combat aging and depopulation, which is of particular interest to us in our rural environment. In addition, we advocate the existence of a security network on the part of the Government of Spain — like what happened in the previous budgetary period — to ensure that all regions continue to receive aid and that none obtain less than 70% of what they received in the previous period. This is the Spanish and Welsh position. I was already focusing on the CAP, within the budgetary framework — as you know and as I told you — only two weeks ago I had the opportunity to attend the Council of Ministers of the European Union which addressed this issue, representing the autonomous Spanish communities and accompanying the Minister of Agriculture. There I was able to see the degree of progress in the work, but also something we all know: the next European elections condition the debate on the future CAP, which is at a stage — everything must be said to be — very primary, and precisely those European elections, if there is a large anti-European front, can clearly affect the CAP and hence our farmers and owners. This is not an impediment for Galicia to have already set her position on it, that I, as the leader of the board in the matter, am defending in all the forums in which I participate, as could not be otherwise. In addition, it is a concerted position between the Government of Greece and economic and social actors, drawn up in a labor document in a way of decalogue which was signed last August between the Union and representatives of the professional and cooperative associations. They're going to let me guess -- even if we've known him several times -- the main contents of this document, and I'd ask him, I'd ask him, and I'd ask you, Mr. Rivas, to tell me which of these points does not agree with the Block. Which one? First. Our Community believes that the CAP must remain an eminently common policy based on two pillars, the first of them, direct aids. Twenty-six thousand Greek farmers and livestock receive EUR 150 million each year which must be financed exclusively from European funds. This is good or not good, and that we defend it. It is also supported by the establishment of measures that recognize the peculiarities of each territory, to encourage the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity — yes or no — and by measures to alleviate price fluctuations in agricultural products. Another of Galicia's demands signed by the sector is support for small and medium-sized farms. Mr Rivas, we're not talking about big businesses here: support for small and medium-sized farms. Administrative simplification of the CAP. You must take as ten GNP asking for that administrative simplification, here it is too. The consensus on the figure of the Genuine farmer—that is where we can all talk about how we approach that Genuine farmer—or support for historical rights in the new dissociated payment. All right or not? Even so, we consider it appropriate to establish a maximum level of aid per holding. Mr. Rivas, we don't want money to go to big farms. Moreover, we say that while the commission talks about the top of 100,000 euros, we want 60,000, because our farmers and livestock are small and do not perceive above those amounts, therefore we defend our own. We also defend, Mr Rivas, positive discrimination for mountain areas and with natural limitations. Most of our farmers and livestock are receiving help for this, what do we tell them? What's wrong? Is it good or not good for the Greek farmers and geese? And the obligation to establish distributive aid, so that the amount of the first acres is greater than that of the rest. Of course, to support small and medium farms as well, which are our own! Is this good or isn't good? These are — I insist — in short, some of the main ideas-forces in which Galicia's position is based. I speak of principles agreed with the sector and I think — I am sure — well known by all, so I cannot agree with your claim that there is misinformation or little clarity in our position. Our position is clear, and it is: it defends the arrogance of the Greek farmers and gemini. On the contrary, I believe that Galicia maintains a definite position of country in the face of the reform of the CAP. I insist on calling for the greatest possible consensus between the political forces on this issue in this House, because in this way we will do nothing but strengthen this position in negotiations. It's over. Ladies and gentlemen, with this consensus we support the position of the Spanish Government, which is rightly defending us in the quest for the CAP to remain one of the priorities of the European Union, with an budget at least equal to that of the 2014-2020 period. I repeat, I must congratulate the Spanish Government in this position of force, both Minister Tejerina and now Minister Planas. Secondly, with this consensus, Mr Rivas, of all of us, we strengthen Galicia's negotiating position, which will be of the utmost importance when, within the elaboration of the strategic plan of the Spanish State, which is something which is determined by the European Union, we must defend that the specificities of our territory and also of our holdings are collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. González. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor on his replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, I don't know if this has been wrong, because the CAP is not an end. From here we always talk about the CAP not as an end, we don't want subsidies for our country. The CAP is a means, and as such, the interpellation to you goes there. We use the best CAP possible we can start as a means to develop. It's the last time we have! I don't want to be greedy, but it's the last time we have, because then the liberalisation comes and then it's not worth looking back, then it's not worth scratching the wounds. The decalogue. You have read the decal, but have you read the recommendation, the amendment that has been made, of the only two that you have accepted in the debate of the State of the Nation? One of them was talking about the CAP, and he was talking about the terms you talked about, but there's a lot left, a lot of things, in the innkeeper. The force of the unit. It's what we ask you to do, country position, hard. They didn't have it. Set population fixing the income, or developing the country's rural? because that's the eternal dichotomy. We can't have field workers asleep by the CAP. You see, you know perfectly well that many of the farms in this country yield thanks to the CAP. Of course, and it can't be. We didn't produce so much milk and so much milk? Well, they have to be competitive, and they'll have to be competitive. Where's Bantegal? Where's Bantegal? Where are the lands that are quiet? Who sleeps in the unspoken sectors? Recitals 20-21, page 21: "In the light of the growing demand of consumers of innovative wine products, with an acquired alcoholic grade less than the minimum acquired alcoholic grade established for the products... blah, blah, blah... It is necessary to provide for definitions of desalcoholized wine products and products..." This is what we want from the future CAP. I didn't hear, except for regulatory advice where the BNG has some voice or voice, except there, I didn't hear any voice against this, because this... Where are we going? To those grade wines to be preserved, we take degrees to please Europe and I don't know who, and we're going to increase their preservatives? We're going to plant other vine varieties not to use so many plant protections and it turns out we're going to spend on preservatives...? What are we talking about? Are we talking about wine or are we talking about a coke that looks like a wine plan? I don't understand, I don't understand who sleeps in the sectors of this country that don't talk, that don't talk, that speak in macrostructures! But the CAP debate is a debate to be taken down, it has to emerge from below, if we want the country to be shared by all. Mr Counsellor, the CAP has been spending so much time in the countryside, and it has affected not positively, but negatively. So you've been telling me, since the year that the CAP started working here, that it's been with this country. How many farms have you closed? Did you really do something? Is there any alternative planning for this country's rural life? No, the answer is no. And I don't need four designations of origin, four IXP, four pearls or forty pearls. I want an active rural, that rural that needs this country, not with a useful land area of 21%, but with a useful agricultural area of 40 percent, running, feeding this country quality food and giving life to this country. That's the rural one we want, and that's the rural one that didn't contribute to the CAP or the policies of the People's Party, and that's what we're all going to agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say that with interpelerations like this passes me a bit like the President of the Board when the questions are, because sometimes I don't know what to answer, Mr. Rivas. Now this last speech, I don't think it has much to do with the CAP. I'll try anyway. Look, if you dream of that rural that we all dream of, and we all want you to go ahead, why did you vote against the dictates of the Forest Commission, to pick up a good part of these recommendations? There are 123 recommendations for that rural, for that rural! [[Applause]] If you agree, and your group, this is tending hand. If your group agrees with that agreement that we signed with the sector, and you understand that it's a minimum agreement and you have to put things like the dehalation or the hybrid theme, come here, there's no problem, sign that deal with us! We all signed it. We have more strength, we have more union and we're going upstairs. I will, of course, defend the subject of hybrids and desalination, according also to the Greek regulatory councils. So we can incorporate it as one more point. When this CAP document was discussed, it was signed with the livestock sector, the wine sector was not incorporated; but there is no problem. The things in which we agree to put them in common, and we move out that the farmers, the farmers, the whole sector and all the Greek parliamentary groups are in favour of the CAP. Look, demonizing the CAP and saying it didn't serve exactly for anything, when 26,000 farmers and yellow sheep perceive every year 150 million euros of direct aid, man!, I think you should have a little more prudence when you talk about these things! Because besides, you know what might happen? The Brussels people believe it, Mr. Rivas, and they don't give us anything anyway. So if they say it's bad, they're going to say, what do you want it for, if they still do nothing but say it's not for nothing? So I think Galicia has a plan in front of the future CAP. I, as I said before, defend it both in Madrid, in the preparations for the Council of Ministers, and in Brussels. That's where the minister speaks. I repeat, I don't think it hurts to say that he's a socialist minister and he speaks very well in defending our interests. Basically, this is already more or less trying to achieve it, but we need the agreement from more countries. This is how it works, Mr. Rivas, and you know it well. In the institutional architecture of the European Union they speak the member states, I can't speak anything there, I have to speak through my minister. What we are advocating is that the Community's agricultural policy, at least, maintains the current budget. There's a committee proposal that reduces it, but we want to go further. And we want to see the peculiarities of our agriculture, but it's not the time right now, the moment is when the Strategic Plan is made. The legislative package of the CAP — I spoke about it the other day, but I would remind you — are three regulations, three proposals for regulations. I have here the Rules of the Strategic Plan which kindly left me Mr. Rodríguez. I told him the other day and now he left me, and I thank him, of course. Recital 55, which speaks clearly of the subject — let us repeat it, but to make it clear — says: In order to ensure that the strategic plans of the CAP have a clearly strategic investment and to facilitate their linkage to other union policies, they have to be strategic plans by Member State. It's common sense! The European Union is a club of states, and we defend the state of autonomy. We, within the Spanish nation and within the Spanish state, clearly defend the interests of autonomy, but respecting — I repeat — the state of autonomy. With the new configuration of the CAP, Mr Rivas, there is a policy to consider results and to meet only what was set for each of the farmers and farmers, to a performance policy. What the European Union says is that the CAP is closer to the characteristics of each country. And we're going to do what we're going to do is control that performance. What the European Union is asking of each Member State is for me to make a strategic plan. From then on, as far as this regulation is concerned — and you can read it in both recitals 55, 56 and 57 and in Articles 93 and 93 et seq. — is that the Strategic Plan must be adapted to the specificities of each part of the territory. When this national strategic plan is being drafted it is when we will have to talk to the rest of the autonomous communities, precisely to defend the specificities of our autonomous community, our rural community. I have to tell you that I hope that after this debate that we have had, and after all we have talked about, it is clear enough that it is not that the Autonomous Community of Greece and that it is not that the Galician Union does not advocate an autonomous strategic plan, that there cannot be an autonomous strategic plan. So we have to fight for enough CAP money, and when the money that corresponds to Spain is determined, we will have to fight with all our forces to defend the specificities of our holdings. So I — and I finish already — encourage the members of this chamber to put aside the political differences to join a common position in Galicia in an essential issue to ensure the future of our rural environment, as is the next model of the CAP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u242	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next interpellation. Interpellation by D. Francisco Casal Vidal and D. José Manuel Lago Peñas, from G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Italian Government in relation to the employment of the car industry in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u243	Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u244	Good morning, Counselor. As we all know, Vigo's PSA-Citroën management proposed a few days ago to the unions the fundamental elements of the Temporary Employment Regulatory Record that would apply at the beginning of 2019, to meet the low demand of some models that are manufactured on this plant. There are two possibilities. A temporary ERE of 100 days for 800 workers. The other alternative is to delete one of the turns of the manufacturing line 1, where Peugeot 301 and Citroën CLX are manufactured. Those affected are basically those models affected by low demand. So the ERTE would stay in 50 days for 400 workers. We believe that alternatives should be sought to minimize the impact of ERTE, given that the workers in line 1 of Citroën's manufacture have been penalized since September this year with the succession of stop days motivated by the low demand of the models it manufactures. We also believe that ERTE cannot be the only alternative to this situation, given that in the factory there are 2,100 potential workers and subcontracts. We need to find solutions before we send people home. So a possible alternative would be to distribute the workload, not the precariousness, between the two production lines of the factory, taking as an example the one where it moved part of the production of vans from line 1 of production to line 2. This would involve investments to suit the platform on line 1, investments that the company seems to not want to do, opting for the easier way, and prejudicial to the workers, like the ERTE. There is no planning taking into account other interests that are not merely economical, and without even thinking about the future of employment and the factory itself. On the other hand, the Galician Union does not know if it has evaluated how this ERTE will affect auxiliary companies; especially in the factories that depend more directly on PSA-Citroën, those that work almost exclusively for them. According to the unions, they would be, among other things, Plastic Omnium, CIE Automotive, Iberian COPO or Faurecia. I hope the Counsellor will provide us with a clear position of the Government on this matter, and do not remain in the usual buying speech that everything is all right. We are used to listening, both in the committee by the general directors, and here in the plenary by the councillor, that the best industrial policy is that which does not exist, as Minister Solchaga has said in his day, leaving all responsibility for market actions. On the other hand, and already speaking in general about the entire industrial sector, we are committed to a proactive economy and industrial policies, which defend material production and the employment needed to obtain it, as a basis for its public services and services for sale. Increasing the size of the industrial sector will also lead to positive drag effects on many different service sector activities, and this is where we can consider industry as the heart of a country's economic system. But the reality is that the trend in our country is the opposite. The contribution to the gross value added of material production in Galicia in 2000 was 40%, now not 32%; that is, we lost eight points of our country's total production capacity. To change this trend, industrial and innovation policies have to be developed much stronger and are involved in the problems that are going on. You can't avoid thinking that they're punctual or isolated, for example what we bring here today, because the inaction to the accumulation of isolated facts leads in the long term to encounter systemic problems, as it happened in his day to the PP with corruption, that they were all isolated and so we ended. The best proof of the failure of their industrial non-policy is the evolution of employment. Today there are 50,000 industrial jobs less than in 2008. That's the reality. Never in history has no government in Galicia had such a negative balance. Destruction of employment which is not something of the past, because the recently known EPA gives a very worrying data. In Galicia last year, 8,500 industrial jobs were destroyed, while in the rest of the state industry generated over 60,000 jobs. How do you explain this negative differential, Counselor? Will you allow this to continue on this path, transforming Galicia into a country of precarious services? And as far as precariousness is concerned, data cannot be more discouraging. The new contracts were at 91% temporary, with a rotational index — i.e. the number of contracts signed in an average year by each worker — of 4.1, and growing. Where statistics are most demolitional is in the total temporality of children under 30 years of age, which reached 63.4%. Who can make future projects with this data? Even more discouraging is the result of the industrial production index. In 2008, we were at an index of 140, and in 2018, in 110, that is, we lost 30 points in historical evolution. But the problem is, we're recovering in a much more limited way than the average state. The increase this past year is 0.6 points in the industrial production index, half as in the state average. In addition, the increase is marked primarily by the contribution of energy, which had increased to 6.7 points, due not to the fact that there is more production, but to the wasted and inscrutable increase in prices. It's also very worrying about the known external investment capture data, with a particular impact on the car sector. DataInvex reports that in the first half of 2018 Galicia captured 32.6 million euros of foreign investment, 0.27% of the total state. But the most important thing is that the investment received in 2018 is the third part of the 2017 figure. It was €32.6 million collected in 2018 compared to €95.6 million collected in 2017. What part of the investments that fled Galicia ended up in northern Portugal? We don't know, we imagine you do. And above all, given the tremendous change in the automotive sector, the largest industrial sector in Galicia, in the next 20 years, the greatest of its history, does the Council of Galicia think that it will come to Parliament to present to us what proposal it has for a strategic plan to enable us to remain one of the leaders of the manufacture of new cars in Europe? And now, with the permission of the Presidency and also of the Counsellor, I'm going to use only one minute in a matter of current and enormous imperious importance. I'll let your consideration answer or not. Are you going to participate in the meeting that with the ministries and the representation of the workers finally accepted the Alcoa company, and it looks like it's going to develop this same week or next? And, will I bring any concrete proposals from the Government of the United States? I'm sorry to get out of the way, but I think the occasion deserves it. And finally going back to the question of interpellation, we believe that the Galician Union cannot be profiled and has to intervene to collaborate with the best solution to the PSA-Citroën ERTE with the lowest possible prejudice for the workers and the workers. That's why we did this interpellation that you have in writing and we asked you if you think the Galician Board would somehow intervene in the negotiation of ERTE and urge PSA-Citroën to arrive at a solution with the lowest possible prejudices for the workers. Do you have the Galician Union develop any studies to take the Government's position on the best possibilities from the working point of view to solve these point-of-the-art problems of the factory? Does the Galician Union plan to urge PSA-Citroën to make the investments necessary to give more flexibility to line 1 of factory production so that you can better manage market variations in some models? And finally, did the Galician Union assess the possible impact of this ERTE on PSA-Citroën subsidiary companies in Galicia? Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Casal, I am very grateful to you for bringing this plenary, this Parliament, the debate on the situation in the automotive sector and, in particular, on the situation currently going through PSA-Peugeot-Citroën-Opel. You move that this government makes a purchasing speech, and this government does what it does is to present the data, and from that, logically, to explain what the measures are, what the policies are, and what the government's performance is. In this case, I refer myself to the report of the Spanish Association of Automobile Manufacturers and Trucks, which collects as Galicia is among the three autonomous leading communities in the production of vehicles, thanks precisely to the PSA-Vigo tyrant. In addition, it is a sector in which Galicia currently accounts for 15.3% of national manufacturing, one in six cars are manufactured in Galicia, and we have spent three consecutive years growing both in sales and in employment, and also in investments. You can choose any variable in the automotive sector mentioned last year and you'll see how the sector is billing about 9,000 million euros, which is the best figure in the last decade; it has created more than 2,600 jobs, reaching up to 20,800 workers and direct workers after three years. It also doubled the investment, with 245 million euros in 2017, to continue adapting to changes in industry 4.0. And the sector is keeping that historical record in exports, with a trend that is being reinforced in 2018, with an increase of 16.4%. Mr. Casal, it's the data. This is not the self-comprehensive speech of a government, it's the data. And what the government does is to feel proud of the automotive sector in Galicia. Because the automotive sector, both through the PSA-Peugeot-Citroën-Opel factory and through the component industry, is making Galicia a reference not only to Spanish eid, European eid, but also to international eid. And that success is a success of the shared work that is developing the more than 100 companies in the sector, including the PSA Group; the workers in the sector, those around 21,000 direct workers; the Ceaga Cluster, the CTAG Technology Center and also the Galician Union. Finally, there is a roadmap and there is a schedule. I don't know why you're moving to this Parliament that there's no strategic planning because if it exists, and not only by PSA, that you've decided in a way I think it's very satisfactory for everyone to choose the PSA plant in Vigo to develop your Industry 4.0 project and develop two new models in a short time, but also the work you're developing your own component industry. Today the automotive sector in Galicia is synonymous with vanguard in innovation, digitization, thanks to this collective effort of workers, companies and administration. We must continue to work, facing new challenges such as energy transformation, as is also the development of the connected car, ultimately, challenges in which we are working together between the sector and the administration itself. I therefore honestly believe that Galician society, particularly workers and businesses in the sector, can be proud of what is being developed, because the results are so indicating and we have a clear outlook for the future both in the short and medium term. PSA's still working, in the last few days, we've heard this news that he's going to make a fourth van, in this case for a new multinational like Toyota. So these are the K-9 vans, the C4 Picasso monovolums, and also the models that are developing through the V20 sock. Finally, the Citroën factory is going to be able to unravel that threshold of half a million units a year, which is the most immediate target once the new model comes into production. Finally, that's the health of the automotive sector in Galicia, that's the data. The automotive sector is in the vanguard of the development of major projects in Industry 4.0, in the intelligent factory and in its own autonomous car, and the Administration itself, with its planning and support for industrial policy in the automotive sector, is accompanying it. In order to be able to respond to his intervention and to interpellation, it is true that if there are differences between the position of En Marea and the position of the Government, which is certainly legitimate, and there surely is in some cases more difficult to find an understanding, but I believe that in other cases if there are possibilities, logically, to find that understanding and therefore to sum up efforts also with the contribution of En Marea, because there is room for that to happen. The first difference is with respect to laws and institutions. We are close to celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution and there are two rights which you, Mr. Casal, for your vital experience, I think you should share. The first is freedom of business in a market economy, and the second right in the Constitution is precisely collective bargaining and therefore the ability of employers and workers' representatives to reach agreements. Therefore, the Government is with the Constitution, I hope that in Marea too. The second difference is respect for the agreements of the majority. We also find it very important that the PSA and the majority unions in the works council, which account for 75% of the staff, closed last week — as you know — negotiations on the temporary employment regulation file. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, we have to work to make that impact as little as possible, but we fully agree, but I think we should respect that agreement that trade unions value as positive when they understand that the impact is being reduced and alternatives to those potential affected are being given. Therefore, the Government, in that sense, also agrees, I hope you too. There is a third important difference, which is the role of administration, and in particular administrations, both through the work carried out at the Labour Inspection and the Galego Labour Relations Council. And that's where we have to work to safeguard, defend and push the workers' rights. It's because there was any kind of failure, and the Labour Inspectorate is precisely to act in that case, as through the Galician Labour Relations Council, to be able to resolve any difference between a company and its employees, and there we are acting, we are proving it, and we are being useful in defending those workers' rights. So in that context, we also have to understand the performance of the Administration. You're also telling me about the support of the Galician Council, which has no industrial policy. Mr. Casal, I refer to the data. First, through support for Industry 4.0 of the Igape Competitiveness Agenda. Secondly, through the Smart Specialization Strategy that is developing the Galician Innovation Agency. The Galician Union has granted more than 150 million euros in recent years to projects linked to the Greek automobile. More than 150 million euros have facilitated investments that exceed 800 million euros. That's not improvisation, that's a planning that has, for example, allowed the autonomous car to develop through the collaboration of PSA, CTAG and the Galician Innovation Agency itself; these 12 joint units that are developing in the iodine of automotive with the participation of multinationals like Copo, like Antolín, like GKN; we're ultimately working, we're supporting the sector. So, I think there's no doubt, there should be no doubt, that the government is working, supporting the sector. In the reply I will also talk to you about training, because training is another key element, with this first training plan in the automotive sector. But ultimately, the Government is providing solutions, there is planning, there is rigour and, above all, there is support for the driving industry in Galicia to continue its vanguard and continue to lead the technological challenges and innovation challenges of the automotive sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u248	Thank you very much for your answer, Counselor. In fact, the data see -- it's evidence -- that we have a very powerful car industry, and what we have to do is meet and deal with the risks we have before us to keep it going. That's what we were talking about. It's not true, and you know, that all unions were delighted with the ERTE, that it was the best alternative and that the conditions and justification of the ERTE were correct. In particular — I believe that they are important unions — Labour Commissions, CIGs and CUTs were opposed to the conditions laid down by the company. Why? Because they suggest that the company only looks at what is the most advantageous solution from a purely conjunctural and short-term economic point of view for Citroën. They suggest, and you know, that if line 1 of manufacture of the PSA-Citroën factory had the flexibility and transformation capacity that line 2 has, this ERTE would not be necessary, because other models could be moved to manufacture on line 1, which is much less flexible when making these decisions. With which there are other alternatives. I'm not saying it has to be the Galician Union to tell PSA what to do, but I do think a government has to have an opinion. I wish the Government of Galicia had said: PSA will make its decisions, but the Government of Galicia thinks what should be done is this and not this. I think that's totally legitimate on the part of a government. And then, perhaps, we should consider whether it's logical that 85%, as in this year's budgets, of the investments of the Galician Innovation Agency go only to the Rocks Polygon, which is indeed a super-interesting future proposal. But you have and you will have, in the short term, no longer say, in the medium term, at fifteen years from now, twenty years from now, the importance of the car sector, for example? Maybe that's what we need to consider, and we have to justify it better. I think so. Obviously, this group is not against the point of the Constitution that speaks of freedom of enterprise, of course not, but it must be in favour of all points of the Constitution, not to take those who are most interested at every moment. I imagine you dropped that with regard to the situation in Alcoa. Well, in fact, there's an explicit point in the Constitution — and I'm not going to repeat it because you know it as well as I do — that makes it explicit... It's not in this sector, but it's in the aluminium sector. The manufacture of aluminium by Alcoa accounts for 50% of Spain's aluminium consumption, being monopolistic. That is, we already depend on 50% of external production, production, besides, outside the European Union, essentially from a country that cannot say that it has stability and that it can give us a guarantee of the future. There are other countries that are taking action not to depend so thoroughly, for example, on Russia's gas, given the situation in that country. Because it seems that Saudi Arabia is not a country we ask ourselves to be trusted in the very long term either. Will it depend on the 60,000 jobs that depend on the transformation of aluminum that we have to export as much as 100 percent of the primary aluminum we need? No, there seem to be alternatives. There are transformational, extrusional, very important companies, such as the one in Amorebieta, for example, that would perhaps be prepared if the State — applying that 128.2 — was willing to enter the capital. And perhaps provisionally, until a definitive solution is found in the capital of the Coruña and Avilés de Alcoa factories. Because, of course, they are strategic, of course they are monopolistic, explicitly what the article of the Constitution sets out. So, you can't say that this is a "eye shot," so speaking... it's completely logical that a country, in a sector like aluminum, which is a mental not only of the future, but of the present, of indefinite recycling, because we know that aluminum actually has a very strong energy consumption when it comes to primary aluminum, but from there, with 5% of the energy needed to produce it as primary aluminium, you can recycling indefinitely. It's the only metal that can be recycled indefinitely. So if you could get to a situation with effective and efficient circular economy, you wouldn't need to produce more primary aluminum. Maybe I don't know when, but someday.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u250	So that industry can't stop being in Spain and can't stop being in Galicia. That's why we think the Constitution is yes, but the whole Constitution is not the part that interests each other and not others. I'd like you to tell me in the second part how you think this ERTE is going to affect the auxiliary industries, if you've evaluated that impact, and what actions you intend to develop to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, the truth is that he has a huge capacity to pose different sectors of production and strategic sectors in an interpellation on a concrete, which is the automotive sector. Actually, he wants to talk about the aviation sector, he wants to talk about Alcoa, of course the automotive sector, and I'm really glad to be able to answer all the interpellations and questions his group can pose, and I don't hide from him that I would also like that same interest to be transferred to other companies and other workers. I'd like you to ask me about Meirama and I'd also like you to ask me about Ence or Elnosa, because they are also Greek workers who deserve our support and deserve a job in the sector and industrial policy of this government. [[Applause]] In any case, by referring myself to the automotive sector, it is actually the data, and therefore it is the capacity of the automotive sector to be competitive. As PSA in Vigo is generating jobs and generating investments; 650 million investments are developing PSA-Peugeot-Citroën-Opel just to adapt to the intelligent factory, to adapt to the manufacture of the two new models. So in that sense, what the Government is doing is supporting that investment and allowing PSA to develop that planning. So the success of the automotive sector is a success of the workers, it's a success of the management teams, it's a success of the component industry and it's also a success of the different technology centers, which are knowing how to put it on the vanguard and they're allowing Galicia to be a pioneer. The Council of Galicia does what it does, in this sense, to adapt its industrial policy and its support to a strategic sector such as the automotive sector. So we will continue to work and support so that the automotive sector will continue to lead this transformation through industry 4.0, through innovation, through talent, and thus to ensure a sustainable and quality future. The Government also appreciates the dialogue between the company and the workers through its representatives. Therefore, the Government values this agreement on the PSA employment regulation file in Vigo, which knows it responds perfectly to the uncertainties that are currently transferring markets from other countries, and in that sense, that dialogue and understanding between most of the PSA workers' representatives has been achieved. Finally, we are talking at this point that Vigo is one of the main productive nuclei, it is a growth engine, and we will continue to support that the automotive industry is still more digital, it remains more connected, and that we are preparing the challenge of the energy transition, which must be ordered. Unfortunately, energy policy and this energy transition are currently being shaped by a lack of planning by the central government that is generating uncertainties in industry and consumers in a way that we understand inappropriate, and the Galician Union will continue — as I said — by supporting the sector. We will do so with new initiatives. He was talking about the automotive training plan, which will invest more than 20 million euros in the next three years precisely to encourage the training of 9,000 workers in the automotive sector. Training is where we also have to guarantee an appropriate industry policy. We will continue to bring initiatives, and I hope that In Marea will be able to support that alliance of the Galician Union and of the entrepreneurial councils to lower taxes, because that, Mr. Casal, is what allowed Benteller this year to be making an investment of about thirty million euros to develop a new factory here in Mos, and do it precisely because Mos is the entrepreneur council, in Mos has lowered taxes and Mos is facilitating business investment. So that's exactly where we have to find ourselves to be able to be among all, among all administrations, among all political groups, to make Galicia a suitable place to invest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u254	That also means supporting the partnership of the entrepreneurship councils and this new initiative — and I am finishing — the priority business initiative, which is being dealt with in Parliament and which will allow the deadline for halving in strategic projects, industrial projects, and I believe that In Marea has a new opportunity to support a coherent industrial policy, a facilitating industrial policy and an industrial policy with which, from the point of view of administrative processing, we can collaborate in the development of this type of priority business initiatives. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. We suspended the session until sixteen, thirty-four and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u256	Let's restart the session, if you like. We start with questions to the Government. From Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the degree of compliance of the Law 8/2011, of 9 November, of the public media of audiovisual communication of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u257	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u258	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Rueda, six months of mobilization, twenty-ninth black Friday, massive mobilization in Santiago de Compostela on 8 September, partial and intermittent arrests in the month of November that ended this weekend and two 24-hour strike calls for 19 and 22 December. What do you have to say? What are you going to do? When will you start once and for all listening to the workers and the workers of CRTVG? [[Applause]] Professionals who protest against the manipulation of information, by televisions who are more like the NODO every day, who even gave up two great professionals who gave the news. In view of this absence of the Information Council which had to be in progress, and is collected in the Media Law itself, it is the Company Committee itself — which I greet today and which is accompanying us to assist in its response — which is the guarantor of pluralism, which is denouncing cases of information manipulation. Cases which, when denounced, bring reprisals by CRTVG's leadership, but which are actually reprisals by remote control of Mr Feijóo, who accuses and is punishing and amassing workers and workers who denounce these news to the letter of the People's Party on televisions that are all of them. A file was opened to Tati Moyano, a file that was closed thanks to these tremendous mobilizations of his comrades and companions. And just in a short time of closing, a file was opened again, this time to Carlos Jiménez, for very similar reasons, which are the same. It's not a compatibility issue, Mr. Vice-President, and you know it, it's a way to keep getting better. In fact, what they do is to manifest themselves in favor of the Public Media Law, that law that has not been fulfilled for seven years. A law that guarantees the pluralism and objectivity of our media; that promotes our language and our culture with that own production which continues to diminish. What they're doing, in fact, is manifesting themselves by public media that are true in the interests of their professionalism. And we have to thank them for these mobilizations because, in fact, they're doing it for the right of everyone's information and of all the Greeks. The question we want to ask you today from the PSdG is very clear, Mr Vice-President: will you and your Government continue to intervene in the public media of this Autonomous Community? Or are they going to begin to fulfill, once and for all, the Media Law? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, you, on the one hand, denounce that the Government intervenes on the day-to-day basis of the Galician Radio-Television Company in everything that has to do with its operation, from the smallest to the largest thing. On the other hand, apart from denouncing this intervention saying that we should not intervene, does he ask me that when we are going to intervene to put an end to all this which is precisely motivated by our intervention? Do you realize the absurd contradiction? Do you realize that they still don't understand, for many times, that I, fulfilling my obligation -- I would miss it more!, and I tell you whenever I come here to answer these questions -- I'm always saying the same thing: Galician Radio-Television Company is an independent company, it doesn't depend on the Government, it has its own rules and it has here, in Parliament, a specific control commission, in which it has been, by the way, the director five days ago. You had already asked the question, you had already made the arguments, and you had given him the explanations he came here to give to the director, who is the one who has to give them and where he has to give them. So as long as he continues to think that we have to intervene and at the same time complains that all the problems are that we intervene, in his own contradiction he'll continue to lose and he won't find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u261	Thank you, Counselor. You have the floor for Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez' replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u262	Thank you very much, President. I've already asked the other day, Mr. Rueda, the director of the CRTVG, and he's been doing it in my group on numerous occasions. I ask you because, according to this honourable Member and this group you understand, the General Environment Secretariat is dependent on your department. The General Secretariat of the Media is exercising an iron control over the management and is amplifying the workers and the workers. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And that department is up to you, Mr. Rueda. [[Applause]] Failures to comply with the law. Look, I don't have time to read them all. Article 5, public service obligation. Pluralism is not guaranteed. Article 23, appointment of the Director-General — we have repeated it on numerous occasions which must be by parliamentary agreement. Article 27, Advisory Council. Article 33 Programme contracts which do not exist. Article 36, professional status and Council of Information which does not exist. Article 39, access to audiovisual authorities. Article 48 Parliamentary control of the programme contract — which does not exist, with which it cannot be developed — Transitional provisions fourth and fifth. Even the transitional provisions of that law are failing — I repeat — which has been in force for seven years. Look, Mr. Rueda, you, who support your VOX political sons, along with Ku Klux Klan and Mrs. Le Pen, said your secretary today... don't be upset! [[Murmurs.]] They are supporting the same person who is supporting Ku Klux Klan and who is supporting the far right of the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Today he said the secretary general of his party, the People's Party at the state level, who is willing to study VOX's request to close South Canal. Close the South Canal, imagine this Socialist Group, Mr. Wheela, to mount the South Ultra Canal, which is what they're doing. [[Laughter]] What's the matter? [[Applause]] That you here don't need anyone to ask you to dismantle CRTVG, you're already doing it for yourself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u264	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, the one who is apologizing is you, and quite enough, which is what happens when you are not right and when you have no arguments. [[Laughter]] So he gets angry, you're growing up, and in the end it's over as it's over. But look, say what you say, the situation will not continue to change with respect to what I say full after full, when — I insist — I come here to answer the questions that have to do with the company, which does not depend on the Government, it does not depend on the Government! Look, I'll read you something that might be alone. A report paid with public money before 2009 — between 2005 and 2009 — I suppose it would take a long time to prepare it and, of course, it was worth money — I insist, public money. The report and the conclusions were: "The situation is as follows: the PSdG dominates Radio Galga and the Company's General Directorate, for the Block there is still Galician TV. And from there, there's an equitable distribution... "—and I quote textually—"...in cascade, about the heads of information and programming, which leads to the situation being certainly damaging." If you like, I'll give you the report. [[Murmurs.]] He doesn't have it, because if he didn't know it was his time, and now it's over. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] There is an independent company that has its control bodies that are in this Parliament. It's a pity you don't value it... it's a pity you don't value the role of this Parliament and the control it has to exercise. [[Applause]] It's no wonder that, if you don't appreciate what Parliament does, you want the Government to do it. But the Government does value Parliament, that's where the control has to be. As much as you point out, as much as you're angry, the situation won't change. That control, recognized by your own reports, ended, fortunately for democracy. That was democracy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u265	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in connection with the regeneration of the Burgo River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u266	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a boy, I remember going with my father to the station, to the mail train in Baamonde, to buy warts to the fishers of the Cruña — we said then — that they were in the second or third wagon; half a hundred, two raisins, and one hundred, one hundred peseta, and we ate them crusades. They certainly were from Burgo's laugh, the lost paradise that we must recover. Counsellor, since the BNG, we have felt in solidarity — with many corrupt and corrupt — that the history of the Burgo River is the story of a disatino and a forgotten interest; or, more importantly, the complicit inaction of successive governments. About 2,000 jobs and the economic activity he was generating, there they go. Let's say the largest company in the Coruña has made several consecutive EREs and in recent times is threatened with closure. Nothing to say. The final project is unpublished. And, you know, while it's not published, there's no budget. And while we're going to attend an interested fight, discussing a budget that will come out of public money and which, therefore, the fight is of political weight, not anything else; it's of Galicia's political weight, to give a punch on the table. Or, what's the same thing, to make the weight of this country stand, to demand the parliamentarians born here, to press on the part of the parties of state obedience to say it's enough and properly orcece the dredging to begin the return to the environmental position you should never lose. They're resting at Junta because they think they have the duty to do it, and they're not. They have responsibility for delaying preceptive documentation; they have delay in budgeting; they have so many delays that they haven't left the station yet. And as they look on the other side, the health of the river is getting worse, only a hundred seafarers and seafarers pull something from it; less than 18% of the extractive activity in recent years. Such is neglect, they don't have a decent place to change. Once again, and with only one honourable Member, the BNG has put his finger back on the strike. The 2013 report on the Welsh rivers, notably that of Vigo and that of Burgo, will be reopened in the Eurocamera. Curious, with the vote against the PP. Hurry up, are you in favor of or against the hive of Burgo and his health recovery? Or are they afraid that carelessness, incompetentness and other guilt will appear? In a country with a civilized government, Burgo's creek factory would have been operating for years now, becoming a source of economic and environmental wealth. For all the ecosystem, all the wealth that treasure the area, is the competence of the Greek Government, also the marine activity; but, over and over, they go less. Counsellor, have you thought of doing anything since the Galician Union in favor of the Burgo River? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. The Government has the floor to advise on Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u269	Thank you, President. Mr. Rivas, I appreciate you bringing this question today. Of course, for the Galician Union, the protection and improvement of water quality in all rivers is a priority. And we're dumpled, we've been dumpled and we're still grounded with the sanitation of all the rivers, also the Burgo's laugh. It's a priority for the good state of the water quality of the rivers and to guarantee marine activity. Of course, we also think about all the professionals in the sector and the professionals in the sea. And dumps, and not delayed, but dumps — as we have been and as we are — with investments and intense work, Mr Rivas. And by collaborating and supporting the municipalities, within their own competences, in sanitation and purification. For a long time, first with a local sanitation plan. In the local sanitation plan we invested 1 million euros, detecting the clear diagnosis of the problems, analyzing palm to palm the sanitation network, seeing where the critical points and the problems are. Much work, intense, very important, and identifying the priority and necessary actions to completely amend all the problem related to sanitation, waste water and rainwater in the rivers. This is not the only area in which we're acting, but we also do a tracking control of all points of dumping. We have a spill control plan. We did 1,200 sanitation inspection campaigns in the Coruña River and the Burgo River, identifying the spill points and helping the municipalities to amend these spill points. They were more than 600 modified dump points. So, I think that no delay, but rather bet on the healing of Burgo's laugh, work, concrete investments for the good ecological state. The fact is that the last example that we saw through the healing of the Burgo River is the partial paralysis — which we know yesterday — of the spills we know on Santa Cruz Beach, because we see the quality of the waters in our rivers. The German Government has invested 100 million euros in the Burgo River from Galicia. We also contributed to the financing of a stripper of general State interest, the stripper of Bens, with 20 million euros. So we fully fund essential projects to improve water quality, from which we can see the competencies shared with the municipalities: sanitation and purification, essential projects, waste water pumping station in the Temple, Passage Bridge and Bastiagueiro, general collectors in Chamber, supply and sanitation network. Last works? Storm tank in Santa Cruz, 3 million euros; optimization of Temple to Pass pumps and a siphon in the Passage, 2 million euros. And so important is doing works like exploiting them, you'll share with me. Therefore, involvement, work, investments, more than 100 million euros from Galician Union in the sanitation of Burgo's river. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u270	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u271	Counsellor, 100 million investments, but Burgo's laugh goes down and the muds don't go down. And by the time, three years ago, they were 200 seafooders, and today they're only 100. You think there's no delay and it talks about 100 million euros in the stream. I'm telling you, it's 100 million euros put into compulsory sanitation of populations that have to have all the populations of this country, and that they don't have. You reach out to the sardine where you're interested. Let's see, this determination that they now show when talking about Burgo's laugh in the way those chest blows that took place in the church — pharisaic boobs — didn't show them in the years of Mr. Mariano. Don Mariano who only remembered Galicia when he came to San Ginés for the summer. Now yes, now they take that absolute determination. Look, Burgo's laugh will be heard in Brussels because it's going to Burgo's laugh in Brussels, which you don't take. We, with a single voice, bring together the voices of the affected and they'll get there. And fines will come from there, and you will come what you have to come, to make them walk to you, because you don't walk unless you're under pressure. And this is the story of Burgo's laugh, and this is the story of the greatest disatino we have in the province of Coruña since I've had reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas.t You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Infrastructure and Mobility Counsellor, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u273	Thank you. I think you should know that the competences in sanitation and purification, and also supply, are municipal powers, law of local regime bases. And the obligation of Galician Waters is to cooperate technically and financially because it is so in the Law of local regime bases and in the corresponding laws. But in any case, you say and don't translate into facts what you say. They're going to Europe asking for solutions to clean up Burgo's creek, and when it comes to acting on the ground, they don't do anything they say. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The line of Pontevedra, what happens to the line of Pontevedra? They pass olympically from the debugger; they have a network of collectors in the municipality of Pontevedra with very important deficiencies — more than a hundred deficiencies — that do not heal; they do not cease to set traps to perpetuate the problems in the river Pontevedra, where there are also many professionals in the sea. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the municipality of Moaña, there are spills which do not grant the municipality, which has the powers in the field of sanitation and purification and which it is sure to charge a sewerage rate. The municipality of Bueu does not light up tertiary treatment, ultraviolet rays, and hence microbiological parameters in the areas [...] of the Pontevedra River have their risk. The Town Hall of Bueu, which you rule. So do as I say, but don't do what I do. That's your motto, Mr. Rivas. In any case, we preach with the example, with investments, with work, with planning, and knowing also — I insist — that it is so important to run works like exploiting them and keeping them in good condition. I suppose this will share it with me too. Our responsibility within the competences that we have marked in the Local Sanitation Plan, in sanitation and purification works, waste and rainwater, we completed it last November with the post in service of the siphon in the stream, optimizing the pumps of The Temple and The Passage, which will lead the waters to the debugger of Bens. Therefore, we have completed an ambitious project of sanitation of waste water and rainwater in the Burgo River, therefore, sanitation and waste water control thanks to 100 million euros for that sanitation that we complete with intense work, dumps, with large investments and results, Mr Rivas, with results. Because we've improved water quality; we've managed to reduce pollution; the whole of Burgo's river is zone B, whereas when you were in government, you were zone C. And you know what zone C means. In 2006, the Bipartite ruled, it was zone C, so it prevented you from extracting shellfish directly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now it's zone B, therefore, it's improved; and we're still investing in the Burgo stream. I hope you have continuity through the state, which has the competences; the regeneration of the coast is a state competition. Now it is up to the State to exercise its powers. I hope to have a meeting on the next January 15th, to carry out our forecasts, so that the State can assume its own powers. [[Murmurs.]] For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u274	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the work for the launch of the second phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan in 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u275	To put the question, Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. At the beginning of this legislation, the German Government has committed itself to the fact that this would be the legislating of transport in Galicia, both in the reorganization of the bus line map and also through the impulse of the necessary infrastructures. In recent times, it is well known that much of the work carried out by its council has focused on modernizing the transport of road travellers, and, over the past year, the Council has carried out an intense planning work with the aim of guaranteeing the transport service to all Greeks, especially after the resignations of certain companies to follow the provision of the service, but also aimed at strengthening and providing better territorial coverage, mainly in rural areas, because the People's Party and the Galician Union are proud of urban Galicia, but also pride in rural areas. In particular, all of this must be mentioned after the Supreme Court ruling 1067/2016, which gave rise to the Government's exemplary response — and in this I would like to congratulate you and your advisor, and especially the Directorate-General for Mobility — by reacting with measures, for example, in the Law on Urgent Measures, Law 10/2016, because afterwards, in June 2017, the Council of Galicia met with a transport strike with the whole sector against the new concessions, and with opposition especially to shared school transport. Companies, which is logical, defended their economic benefit and their private interest, but the Union — as it could not be otherwise — defended the social interests of the Greeks, users especially, and workers of these companies. And here we have to say that there were parties in the opposition that in this case were with the company, they weren't with the workers or users. But there are other modalities in opposition parties. In other cases they are with the workers, such as the case of Alcoa, from which we congratulate ourselves; but there is a third option also, that the opposition parties are sometimes against... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u277	Quiet, Mr Ogong. Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u278	There's a third option, three modalities, the third is that sometimes they're also against companies and workers, such as the case of Elnosa, the case of Meirama or the case of Bridges. So, as you can see, Counselor, there are parties that present a singular physical property, which is its elasticity; depending on the problem, they adopt one position or another or change their shirt, right? And it has to be said that the greatest elasticity, the greatest malady, the least credibility in the Greek people. [[Murmurs.]] Madam Counsellor, recently last February 16th, the Government of Greece had already announced the bidding of studies corresponding to a second phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan, with an investment of 2.7 million euros, with the aim that Galicia had, at the end of 2019, a modern transport service and conforms to the real needs of its citizens. So my question is to explain to us how the work is progressing towards the launch of the second phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan by 2019. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. Mr. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor on behalf of the Government, the Infrastructure and Mobility Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u280	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Council of the Union, at its meeting on Thursday, 29 November, approved the Galician Public Transport Plan, which will completely renew the entire transport line map that will be progressively implemented in 2019; an approval by the Board of the Union after a huge fieldwork that has been carried out in recent months with the tender that you commented on, from the first technical support studies to the entire staff of the Directorate General of Mobility, and an approval that we have made after the final approval and the preliminary favourable report of the Galego Transport Council, where all social agents are, and also the transport sector itself. We're talking about an approved plan that will be the document that will govern the second phase of the Public Transport Plan in Galicia. We will take full advantage of the unique opportunity that gives us the expiry of all transport concessions — therefore, an unprecedented opportunity — to modernise and renew the entire transport line map in 2019. Public transport is more sustainable, efficient and more tailored to Galician reality and needs; public transport with future; public transport is useful for citizens, sustainable from the point of view of the environment and also affordable from the economic point of view, that is, it really has a future. We bet on three basic lines of action: promoting mobility especially in terms of equality, security, but also quality; enhancing public transport and promoting intermodality and accessibility. For this we count on tools I would say valuable. The experience given us at the first stage of the Public Transport Plan; the tranquility of the new modalities that are working, the transport to the demand and the shared bus; and also the intensive work we have done in the last year, of dialogue, collaboration and consultation with all the agents involved. In August 2017, as you know, the first phase was implemented. We managed to get Galicia not to stay a single day without transportation. We launched two modalities: such as shared transport, taking advantage of the empty squares of school transport with full guarantees for schoolchildren and increasing the number of escorts by 33%; or transport on demand, so as not to drive empty buses. Two modalities that are, of course, very much better at rural care and that have given real positive figures. A first phase, in which the kilometers were increased by 37%, had an important reach; 800 lines and more than 10,000 stops. In 16 months, positive balance. Passenger increase, an increase of 2.5%, 6.3 million euros. Shared transport, more than 200,000 users and without a single incidence. Transport on demand, 3,000 requests for service. So we're talking about it with the quietness of the data and also with the support of the data from the experience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u281	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u282	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. We welcome this positive balance of transport management, because, as you have just said, there was not a single day without a transport service, and they also worked to guarantee jobs to the hundreds of workers from those companies who gave up concessions. All of this shows that a problem can be taken as an opportunity; an opportunity to transform, modernize and expand the transport service in Galicia. In the reply I ask you to clarify or advance us in some way date forecasts for the implementation of this second phase, and also to know to what extent it will continue to deepen the Council's participation. I believe that a matter to be highlighted throughout this process is the participation of the whole sector, of all parties involved, because we believe it is important to succeed in achieving a transport service, a transport system, which meets and satisfies most of the demands of the Greeks. He also told us that the municipalities had been investigated, which is very important in this process of participation. And speaking of municipalities, we have already tried here, in the full past, which is important that Pontevedra and Ferrol comply with a request from this Parliament of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Because we believe that the neighbours of Pontevedra and the neighbours of Ferrol also have the right to have an urban transport, and there is no reasonable explanation for all these neighbours of Pontevedra and Ferrol to tell them that they do not have the same rights as the rest of the neighbors of the Greek cities. They have the right to urban transport, and I hope, Counsellor, because this is the time at hand, that these two municipalities will put in place this urban transport service and that it coincides with the implementation of this second phase of public transport in Galicia, because that way we will win all and especially these neighbours who are discriminated against today by the rest of the towns of Galicia. On the other hand, I would also like to point out, Counsellor, that today we are voting on a proposal in which the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u284	...he asked that the demand transport service be improved, which I think is also very important for Galician rural areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u285	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u286	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the truth is that we are doing a huge work of participation, of dialogue, of great magnitude. We submitted the first basic document of the Galician Public Transport Plan to public information; it was the first, in addition, process of public participation. And we will also submit to public information the exploitation projects in which we are dumped, working and developing to submit them to the next public information between January and February, to put into service between August and December the new services. So an important work of participation and dialogue, with a thorough fieldwork analyzing needs, and, of course, to best meet demands. The collaboration with the municipalities seems essential, so we conduct surveys and interviews; also the information of health centers, teaching centers, so we conduct thousands of surveys and consultations to users on bus stops, bus stations, demand attractions centres as can be the polygons industries etc. The truth is he contacted all the municipalities. Well with all the municipalities but one, who didn't want to know about the survey or answer it. In any case, interviews and meetings with 312 municipalities that wanted to participate, and now more than ever we have in great detail all analyzed, and also analyzed everything they think of the centers of demand attraction. Nearly 1,000 consultations at the demand centres, polled about 25,000 citizens; never in Galicia had such an important survey been conducted. The truth is, these surveys reflect interesting data. No more, but about 70% of the municipalities are shown in favour of shared transport, and almost 60% in favour of demand transport. Three out of four consulted users are in favour of the bus on demand, the shared bus. So we have — thanks to that great fieldwork, to that huge fieldwork done — a composition of fine-tuned place, with useful and valuable information for the development of farm projects. The second stage is that it has a great scope. There are 1,500 lines, over 30,000 stops, over 100,000 hours. We hope to carry out this transport map on four levels of transport, autonomics and inter-commaral lines, comarcas and municipal lines, which can be rural and urban. Of course, it is very important that the Ferrol Town Hall and the Pontevedra Town Hall meet their legal obligations and implement their urban transport. We want and work for efficient transport. We're going to expand transport on demand. We're going to expand the shared transport this year. We're going to make an equal access, with a homogeneous rate, and extend the advantages of the Metropolitan Transport Plan with the New People's Card, under 19, and free interurban transport throughout Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u287	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of En Marea, on the actions being carried out by the Government of Galicia to reverse the increase in the number of people killed on the roads of Galicia in 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u288	To put the question you have the word Mr. Cal Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u289	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we raise a question motivated by the alarming increase in mortality on the Greek roads; a question that affects society as a whole and raises a more important question for the Administration, which has the responsibility to lead work for road safety. The question is recorded through the negative data of last summer, but today the alarm is even bigger, marking the trend in this increase. Even this October was the worst month of the last seven years on Galician roads, with 17 fatalities, figure to which it hadn't arrived since 2011; and last November also doubled the deaths on the roads of last November. Today, we find ourselves with the dramatic fact that there are already 97 people killed on the roads of Greece, 27 people more than in the last year, which means a 37% increase right now, the lack of another month to finish this year. This situation places Galicia far above the average of the state as regards people killed by road violence, and consolidates Galicia's stagnation in order to reduce mortality, housing us much of the European targets for reducing mortality on roads. The alarm situation — which I suppose is shared and will not accuse us of alarmists — is a response to the fact that of the three years in which the European Road Safety Plan 2016-2020 is in force, two of them, 2016 and 2018, are terribly bad, and they are holding Galicia in the advance of the European strategy, breaking up with a positive trend of thirteen years. The alarm situation, I suppose it shared, responds that the terrible data from 2018 come after five quarters of death reduction, breaking also this positive trend that occurred since the bad year 2016, which could be in a bad year if this year hadn't happened the same, which shows that it's a trend and there's a stagnation. We will all share that in road safety we have to involve the whole of society as a whole, and we also share that road safety is a priority of the Administration, which must put all means at its disposal. From the Administration you have to focus on the human factor, with awareness campaigns, awareness raising, road education in schools, in addition to traffic surveillance campaigns focused on speed factor and steering distractions — the use of mobile essentially, which is one of the main reasons right now — and also on the state of roads, infrastructure, and vehicles. We understand that in all these matters it has not been done enough and it can do much more. There's a lack of awareness campaigns; road education in schools is done very stubbornly; the state of vehicles is not best suited to the policies of precaution of the majority and the lack of help; roads are not in good condition in Galicia and everything can be done in road safety measures. But what is most of our concern about this situation is that we don't see ourselves, on the side of the Galician Council, face-to-face with all this data, and in the face of the failure of the 2016-2020 Plan, we don't see that its advisorship takes any action or announces any change; we see tremendous immobilism, and in these matters immobilism costs lives. So we ask you a very specific and very clear question: what will the Government do to change this reality?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogado. The Government has the floor of the Infrastructure and Mobility Council, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u291	Thank you, President. I'm going to answer a question you've been asked by the Director of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. I will try to clarify, but the fact is that I suspect that this sudden interest is the result of the controversial role that I had in discussing the budgets, alluding to the reports of the construction companies to ask us to invest more. That controversial role that he played in the budget debate makes him now have that sudden interest in talking "serious" about road safety. In any case, I would like to thank you for your opportunity to talk about this matter which is a priority for us, that of accidents on the roads. Every victim is a drama. The evolution of 2018, of course, is not good, that of the last month of November is not good. The one from 2017 was a positive data, but the one from 2018 is not good, and we're worried about the fallacy of 2018. We've been insisting and working for a long time, and we've been insisting on the Government's Delegation on repeated occasions, asking you to call on the Autonomic Traffic and Security Committee to assess the situation and take appropriate measures; a meeting at which the General Administration of the State, the Galician Board, local administrations, the deputies... Proposals, measures and solutions we want to address this problem this year. The fact is that the data we contrast point to competing factors but, of course, worrying: distraction to the steering wheel, mainly the mobile; excessive speed; not wearing the safety belt — 22 people this year 2018 who didn't wear the safety belt — alcohol and drugs. They are competing data — I would say that, above all, worrying — that they suggest a certain relaxation in driving standards. We need to reflect, and administrations need to take steps to lead. Reduced accidentability is a joint job of involvement and awareness. We have a road safety plan that's alive; strengthening and intensifying measures, but we've been working for a long time, not now that you say so. You're talking about education and awareness-raising measures. Of course, I've always said so! More awareness and more education, not reports from construction companies. Fewer reports from construction companies and more awareness and information. [[Mr. Cal Ogon pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Who set up the campaign "The heart is on your side"? This council. Who set up the Metro and Half campaign? Do you know which one? This council. Who put distracting campaigns on the wheel? This council. So we've been working for a long time. Fewer reports from construction companies, more awareness and more education. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u292	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Cal Ogong has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u293	Thank you, President. He didn't respond to anything, he didn't say what they were going to do. Clearly, data says that what you are doing is not positive. More people are dying on the roads, Counselor. He can't say what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing. You'll have to say: we'll have to find what we have to do from now on to change this reality, which is what I'm asking you. We bring this question because we are worried about this alarm: a stagnation in the reduction of deaths, after 13 years of negative trend, and the increase this year by 37% when it takes a month to finish. That's why we bring this question, not for any other question, as you say. We, unlike you, brought up the issues when they are important, not as you did, that came to talk about the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan the month following the traffic report that said Galicia was leading the decline in mortality on the roads. You came here the following month to brag about numbers, and now that many more people are dying, that if you're increasing the data, you don't look, and you come here now saying what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing. Then why are these data coming out? What are you guys doing wrong? How many campaigns have you made this year of not using the mobile to the steering wheel? How many did they do? Because it's one of the main reasons for mortality. What are you doing in that regard? Did they do anything about it? What are you doing with the roads of Galicia? In Galicia we count on the bus point with greater left-handedness, the same on the roads, the largest number of black spots on the roads of state competition. We have a lot of pathways that are dangerous, that go through very populated nuclei and have a lot of sinisterness, and you're not doing anything at all. Last week, in this committee of yours, the opposition took three initiatives in which I intervened, which were about PO-331, PO-308 and PO-841. The three were to ask for road safety improvements on the roads because they were areas of great tenderness. And you know what you did? To vote against, that's what you're doing, you're not taking the necessary measures in road safety, you're not doing awareness campaigns. You guys haven't done a single awareness campaign this year about the distraction with the use of the mobile when you know it's the main cause of accidents. So you do something else, because the data is very negative and what you're doing is obviously not working, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u295	You don't have to know, Your Honor, that at PO-308 we have carried out a lot of investments in road safety, lots of investments. You should get closer to all the works we're working with, because we're sewing all of the PO-308 between Sanxenxo and Poio and also the PO-531. You must not know that we are doing very important works on road safety there. In any case, we've been working hard for many years, redoubled efforts on road safety, and we want to continue to add and concentrate efforts. We have, for example, the strategy of eliminating all the truces of accident concentration, in which we are working to eliminate all the TCAs — the black spots, for them to be located — from the autonomic roads. A specific program of inspection of bridges, of works of passage, which increased the rings on our roads; also identification and signage, that we are and that we will continue to carry out, of cyclist routes on the Greek roads, and campaigns of awareness and road education. I insist again, the education campaigns "Metro and half" and "The heart is on your side," for the little children, we're doing them. I was still the other day, Mr. Cal, in Toén Town Hall. I'm sharing reflective elements; we've been with the vulnerable collectives recently: the cyclists, the pawns. Safe driving campaigns, safe driving courses. I advise you to focus on the next safe driving courses. Intense work and relaxation none, redoubled and increased efforts and investments. With budgets, EUR 75 million in 2019 budgets. What did you do in the amendments? What did you do in the budget amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u296	Quiet, Mr. Cal. Mr. Cal, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u297	Reduce the investment of the Gallega Infrastructure Agency. What did you do in the 2019 budgets? Reduce, reduce investment in road safety, investments in the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, and come here to ask me this question. Of course, a minority of investments that are essential, which would have negative consequences, so we're not going to vote in favour of them. It would be a real loss of investment of 59 million euros! And come and ask me this question! So, I think we have to be serious, it's a very sensitive subject. Fully convinced of adding to stay, fully convinced of working for road safety, which is one thing of all. No administration plan can replace prudence, I suppose this will share it with me. Conscientiousness of all and vigilant, we can't lower our guard. At the Government Delegation, at the meeting we had, we proposed a protocol of action to the State — I hope they will accept it as soon as possible — to also eliminate all the truces of accident concentration on their roads. I think it'd be okay. Better safety in the areas of crossings because it is where vulnerable citizens — in the PO-308, in the crossings, we are already acting — and increasing road safety also in the pilgrims. Working together, adding up, Your Honor. More awareness, more education and less use of the reports of construction companies, as you did in the budget debate. For my part, nothing else
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u298	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the information of the Government of Galicia regarding the possible realization by the Galician Waters of a follow-up of the conditions in which the channel of the river Xunqueira was left after the authorized cut of trees
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u299	To put the question, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u300	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. I would like to greet the mayor of Viveiro, Maria Loureiro, who accompanies us today, representative of the administration who was at all times next to the neighbors and neighbors of Junqueira, after the floods that took place on the night of November 18 in Viveiro. [[Applause]] The urgency of this question is given by the uncertainty and insecurity that is suffering from the neighborhood of Viveiro after the catastrophic damage caused by this water trumpet on the night of November 18. In the early morning, a strong stream of water unleashed a stream that swept down the neighborhood of Janqueira in Viveiro, dragging cars, causing damage to homes, drowning fences and cliffs, and what's more serious, causing the death of an 83-year-old neighborhood. From our group, we show and transmit to the family of Amparo Verde Alcamba our most sincere condolences. The worst thing is that this death could have been avoided. Every year, the Valdeflores Association, from Janqueira, sends letters to the Councillory of Environment and Waters of Galicia asking for the cleaning of the river that passes through Junqueira before the fall seasons, warning of the possible consequences of not doing so; that is, the trapping of bridges and floods, which was finally what happened. This flood had its origin in the number of weeds and trees that bore the stream of the river. Several neighbors and neighbors, among them a concelebrant of the Popular Municipal Group in the Viveiro Town Hall, I imagine that because of political coherence, and also ashamed of the responsibility of the Board on this subject, he resigned, assured that this failure to clean up the river was one of the causes of the laughter, and remember that they have been demanding a solution for months, even years, to the German Government. The first thing the Galician Waters and the councillor said was that their technicians were in the devastated area in September, and they had noticed that they were in good condition, and that the floods were only the result of the meteorological phenomenon. Moreover, the councilor has Vaticaned that they will not repeat again in 500 years. Finally, arguments of great silence to reassure the neighbors. But the truth is that the problems began in the area above the river, as the neighbors themselves said, the municipal government itself, and as it finally acknowledged Galician waters in the report sent to the Town Hall on November 28th. Junta grants permission to cut trees and remove wood by going to the rivers, but then the Junta in Galicia does not worry about checking the state in which they left the channel and the banks of the rivers the forest companies carrying out the cutting of the trees. That's why we asked ourselves, "Do you know the Greek Government if the Galician Waters carried out the follow-up to the conditions in which the river of Xunqueira remained after the authorized stem of trees?"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u301	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle speaks for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u302	Thank you, President. I also want to take advantage of to greet the mayor of Viveiro, Mary, and also the lieutenant- mayor, who I see up there too. They know that we are from the very first moment there helping and supporting, sending technicians from the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, Galician Water Technicians, who even contacted them directly. I want to begin, of course, mourning the serious event that has affected dozens of people, and there was also a deceased person, Amparo. I want to bring my condolences back to all those affected and to the relatives of the deceased person, and to tell everyone, and to the whole society in general, that we have to work so that this doesn't happen again. I work for everyone who is not limited to a single factor, because the counselor has never limited to a single factor what happened. A joint reflection of society in general. And, of course, administrations not only competent in Galician waters, I believe that in the area of urbanism, in the field of civil protection, in the field of forest use, in the field of weather forecasting. From the waters of Galicia and from the Council, to the greatest collaboration and the greatest effort to investigate in-depth. We're investigating, from the very first moment, everything that's happened, but I think we should have made it clear that it was an absolutely extraordinary phenomenon: in very little time, and in one space, too many concentrated rains. From the very first moment, we've made ourselves available to the Living Town Hall. Of course, this is to take it seriously: 25 calls to 112. Galician waters have mobilized the equipment from the very first moment. At first, we moved to the basin, clearing all the trawls, to avoid similar problems if it rained again. And also road conservation workers from the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, collaborating on municipal roads. From the very first moment, we've also started an investigation. Weather information. I must report, be transparent, say the data we have and the weather information: an intense and concentrated rain. The truth is, what I moved and what I reported was hydraulic engineering issues and parameters. The concentration period and the return period are hydraulic parameters, and I think I should also inform them. Very small concentration time, very long return periods, which means probability in 500 years. I think the rains in 10 minutes, with this graph, are quite clear the exceptionality. But in any case, I don't want to minimize the occurrence. It's a potential flood risk zone also known by the Viveiro Town Hall — I have to say — It's therefore an extraordinary phenomenon in a flood risk zone; it's not a political opinion, that's a certainty. So he's working to make a living, analyze everything that's happened and prevent it from happening again. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u303	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word, for the replica shift, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u304	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you at first, when you approached the Viveiro, said that the only cause for such floods was the meteorological phenomenon. The neighbors and the council themselves told him no, that there were more causes, and that the cause was that he wasn't cleaning the top of the river Xunqueira. You recognized him at the back and said that it might be that some company that had cut trees had not done the cleaning that was convenient, but at first it found it unique and exclusively; and with its sentence that it would only repeat itself within five hundred years, it was confined to a single and exclusively meteorological phenomenon. We, Counselor, are not denying that a lot of water would fall, but that if the river was clean, the floods would not become such silence, with the worst consequences that happened, which was the death of an 83-year-old neighbor of the river of June. If the river were clean, the floods wouldn't be so quiet. He didn't answer the question of whether this follow-up was done, whether he kept clearing the channel of the river after he authorized that cut of trees. What makes it clear to us is that you didn't do your homework, you didn't check how the rivers stayed after your permission. You authorize cutting and, even though you don't leave the neighbors who can clear the rivers, you don't clean them either, you don't follow up and check how the rivers are left after those cuts. Here, once again, they show their incompetence and their deaf ears to the demands of the neighbours of Xunqueira, who have been asking for that cleaning for years. Let's hope they get to work now, do their homework, and clean up so that these facts will not be repeated again and that they will prevent new deaths from crushing them. That's what you're complaining about from the neighbors, who are afraid they're going to repeat again, so they're asking them to urgently clean up and drain the river in that area and unlock the channel of fallen trees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u305	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u306	...at the top of the river. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u307	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the Government's replica shift, you have the floor of the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u308	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I beg you not to wipe what I have said, besides the fact that I haven't seen her there. So don't wipe out what I said. But if I'm going to give you something that I said, and you don't say, to focus this problem more, which seems pretty serious to me, and to take the matter seriously. We're in a meteorological episode that I think we all have to recognize, at least that's how Meteogalicia moves it. I do have to admit that the meteorological phenomenon — of course — was exceptional. It was in a potential flood risk zone, and we can't figure it out either. The Living Town Hall knows this because we put him under consideration, and he didn't make any allegations. We have not only the area of Viveiro in Galicia, there are many areas in Galicia that are areas of special flood risk. The Viveiro Town Hall knew it and didn't argue, and when you're in a special flood risk zone, you have to at least take it into account. I've transferred what the Galician Water Technicians say, who have my respect. What technicians say I have to respect, too, I understand, I don't jump; and also in order to be transparent. As for the cleaning of the channel itself from the river, from the bed itself, if it had been cleaner, this kind of flood would have been avoided as a result of these rains. I see I can't talk about concentration time or return time because they're twisting it. In any case, I've already told you that these are parameters you often talk about in hydraulic engineering. But I'll tell you what I said. What I've said -- and I think it's quite important that we all know it -- is that the urban truce that was asked by the neighborhoods to clean up is a truce that corresponds to cleaning up the Town Hall. The urban truce, which is what I said in the municipality itself, article 28.4 of the National Hydrological Plan ratified by the Supreme's judgment: The urban truces of the rivers are municipal competence clear and keep them clean. Yes, Your Honor, you should inform yourself more than I said there and not twist it. On the other hand, in river cleaning themes, Galician waters make it easy. We have implemented a decree since 2015 with a responsible declaration for minor river cleaning and to give facilities for river cleaning. As I told you, the competitions are not just from Galician waters. The powers to see the state of the stems, the cuts, in police areas, it's not from Galician waters, it's from the middle of the countryside, it's from the forest district, and also from the dixen. So don't concentrate... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Instead of inventing some things that move here, I insist on a joint reflection on a very serious matter, where we are talking about meteorological prediction, river management — of course — of urbanism — of course yes — of civil protection as well — of course yes — and of prevention to prevent, but from a joint reflection of all. For my part, that's all. [[Murmurs.]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u309	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. As you know, the Galician Union has communicated the approval of Question No 40853, to 7.6 on the agenda. So let's move on to the next one. Question by Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and ten other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the works of expansion and remodeling of the Marine Hospital lumense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u310	To put the question, Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u311	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Tomorrow, 40 years of the Spanish Constitution — as we all well know — are purchased, which we celebrate — I don't know if others, but we do — because I assumed the greatest odds of well-being in our community — i.e. self-government — never dreamed of for Galicia. And I make this heading, if I may, because one of the competences of the Autonomous Community is public health. In public health, in our district, in the Navy, we have a magnificent hospital. That self-government, within our district, of our district, has powers and power. The Marine Administration has power and therefore manages our hospital perfectly. We said clearly that it was a historic demand of our country; a demand that claimed the neighbours, a demand that the People's Group demanded, and consequently there is a clear and broken commitment on the part of this Government and, consequently, on the part of our President Feijóo. Public health therefore enjoys good health. Our hospital earns 6,000 square meters more public health, earns services. Counsellor, I ask you to explain it to all the neighbors of our region — my country — but also to explain it to this opposition, which has resorted to lies, systematically, to our region. Have 80,000 people been wrong? The answer is, no, because the neighbors knew perfectly well that there was a government that was acting, that didn't go to a sign because that banner was the only one that wanted to be electoralism, and no neighbor came to those demonstrations. Counsellor, to those demonstrations — listen to me, opposition gentlemen — came to representatives of the Socialist Party — it is true that they do not vote in their people but will manifest themselves to others — the BNGs — see the result they have, six parliamentarians — and the tides — have no municipal representation in any of the councils of our region, in any one — and therefore the people have decided, and what have they decided? That there was a party that was responsible, that there was a party that didn't play with health. We bet on public health, we defend rural...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u312	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u313	...we clearly defend the countryside.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u314	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u315	Do you know why we defend the countryside? Because we bet on proximity health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u316	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u317	Consequently... — if I may, President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u318	Thank you very much. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u319	I'll ask you the question. What are the characteristics, if possible, of the work of expanding the public hospital in the Navy? [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u321	Thank you, President. Mr Vega, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, yes, it also coincides that today is an important day for the Navy — so I'll tell you next — but it is true that since the Health Council we have a clear and common goal for the entire geography, which is to approach the services to the citizen. As when the Health Act was defended in this parliament, it was said at all times, and this is what is demonstrated, that the great hospital is being and is going to be the Marine Hospital. Enlargement is, as I say, the best proof that far from closing centers or minimizing services — as is often said by the opposition — we bet on treating patients in their hospitals near their homes. We have great professionals at the Marine Hospital that make this hospital valued by both the citizens of that county and the professionals of Sergas, in general. This expansion led to the construction of a new building of new facilities and a 33%, very important, 6,000 square meters above the 17,600 that we already had in operation. An investment of 8.5 million, which will reach 10.5 when we complete this first phase of the master plan. At this stage, the hospital will get better support spaces for hospitalization, with more comfortable rooms, as we could see on the visit we had a few weeks ago. It also highlights the improvement in the oncohematological day hospital space, very important the space that now comes to complete the services and which has been created with the team from the entire area of Lugo. This team of oncohematology moves to serve the patients of the Navy, avoiding unnecessary travel to all citizens. It's going to have 270 meters when up to now it's 120 meters. A space where cancer treatments are administered without patients — as I say — having to go to Lugo, as they did until a few years ago. In addition, there will be a new field of external consultations with thirty-one new sites and two digestive endoscopy rooms equipped with two new exploration towers, an outpatient surgical engineering room and a cardiology cabinet. The new area of ophthalmology, also very important, will have ten places with fully renovated, modern and new amenities. Installations and equipment that will allow patients to be cared for in more comfortable spaces equipped with better technology, which will enable them to perform care with lower displacements and disturbances for these citizens. Thanks to the pharmacy reform, it will be equipped with modern electronic means of birth and better facilities to care for patients. And this enlargement does not end here, but, as we say, there is also a second part of this phase 1 that will start from today, in which we are beginning to slide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u322	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u323	... all patients in these new areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u324	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u325	Well, we could hear perfectly everyone that public health in the Navy defends itself with facts, not with words simply; with budget, not with banners. [[Murmurs.]] I know you're upset that I said "say," and I'm going to say that you can't go to the Navy with signs, no, no!, you have to go to the Navy to explain the facts that this administration is fulfilling with each of the neighbors of the Navy. [[Murmurs.]] When it comes to public health, it's about proximity, and when it's about health, it's also absolutely clear that services need to be increased in our neighborhood. One of them, for example, home hospitalization. Why did I, in my intervention, say that we were defending the countryside? Why did I say that there was pride in the countryside? Because that home hospitalization to those who benefit most — where it is highly valued — is to the parishes, it is to the rural, and I take rural in the heart, but I also carry rural in my demands, systematically, as a member of that region. So, Counselor, I told you a gentleman who lives in the countryside: keep working for public health, keep working to defend our hospital. Today in the Navy there has been all the change of the old hospital, the hospital that will now be remodeled, to new facilities; because we continue to invest. [[Murmurs.]] The advisor gave a figure, 12 million euros, and now that's going to increase because there's going to be a remodeling of the current hospital. Therefore, we continue to invest, because I — and I think this whole parliamentary group —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u326	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u327	...I'm proud of public health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. For the Government's replica shift, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u329	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr. Vega, the truth is it's an important day for The Navy, because it's true that at the moment the patients will be able to see already clearly the new facilities, which will also lead us in this second part to remodel the space they're still occupying. They'll see this clear difference between an old and a new hospitalization, but in very little time they'll be equaled both. Besides, we've also had a very advanced record to improve the building, generally with a new façade that's going to improve energy efficiency and that's going to have an investment, an investment of about two million euros, too. So, as I say, this afternoon you can see already, in principle, this first change, and in the next few days it will come into operation, too, the oncohematological day hospital and the cardiology offices and consultations, and so progressively so that in January you have completed the occupation of this new area and remodel the old one. But in addition, the fact is that this building improves the comfort of all patients who have to use it. We also want to boost the outpatient zone, we know that the future comes around: more outpatient surgery, more day hospitals, more outpatient treatments so that patients can return to their homes as soon as possible. But those who stay, logically, will take a better step through this hospital. Moreover, the truth is that the assistance results in recent years have greatly improved in the Navy, as I say by my own installation, but also by those professionals who are performing a magnificent job. In 2009 the average surgical wait was ninety-six days, in 2018 the last data is 40.8, that is, it was reduced by almost more than 100% compared to that date. In external consultations he was in 41.6 days and now he's in thirty-four days. Also going down seven days on what we had before. A hospital that in 2017 brought forward 5,329 revenues and more than twenty-three emergencies. We want marine neighbours to be able to see their reliable hospital expanded and have access to better, more comfortable facilities to continue to perform high-quality treatments that are being done there. And, as I say, this represents fulfilling a debt that we had with the citizens and professionals of the Navy, a debt that — as the honourable Member said — some believed that it consisted of a greater number of banners, but that really what the neighbors want is done. And, of course, we will continue to bring our services closer to citizens, improving our infrastructures, also enhancing other forms of assistance: surgeons — as we said — outpatient clinics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u330	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u331	...day hospitals and, of course, the energy efficiency of all our buildings, which logically will also improve the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u332	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the planning of the German Government to solve the professional deficit in Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u333	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u334	Good afternoon, Counselor. On August 4th, with José Manuel Brey's death at the Road CAP because of the lack of personnel to assist him, they jumped all the alarms about the health situation. Alarms that you do not want to see or attend and continue to echo the warnings about the lack of personnel, about the discoveries that are taking place despite the fact that the CAP staff have been on strike since mid-October. Far from taking note, Mr. Almuño, he continues to do the same, and repeating the same seems, of course, very little intelligent to expect different results. Last November 29th, for example, at the Tui CAP, they were without medical personnel for more than two hours. In view of the absence of a doctor at the Guard's CAP, what happens to Sergas is to get a Tui CAP doctor and send him to The Guard. There's an emergency in Tui and you have to leave to cover that emergency, and Tui's CAP has no doctor. Dressing up a saint to dress another was never a solution, Counselor. It's the same recklessness, the same repeated fear over and over, playing with the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks systematically. Nor does he take note of the demands of the CHUS Emergency Service staff, a month off in demand for personnel, and improves a service in a situation of permanent collapse. Nor does he take note of the demands of the Salnés Hospital, which denounces plants with multipathologies, with closed beds, with a brutal workload, without reinforcements. They claim that Sergas behaves like the worst ETTs, who carry out garbage contracts today to-morrow, half a day without respect for the days of release... The demands of the staff add to the concern and outrage of the population, which is not willing to leave her without pediatricians, to which the health centres close in the afternoons. They have the indignant neighbors of Cambados, Cuntis, Aldán, Mondariz, Moaña, Moraña, Ponte Caldelas, Coruxo, Soutomaior... and could follow the list for quite a while. I am therefore increasingly the professionals and the professionals — the neighbouring — who, of course, are unwilling to continue to endure this situation in silence. This situation, which, of course, is not by chance, is not survived, is not last-minute, you were warned that this was going to happen; even Sergas' Human Resources Management Plan warned that this situation was going to happen, warned of the aging of the staff and of the consequences it was going to have, and before that you did nothing because what you wanted was to reach this state of deterioration of public health to suit the private. With which, Counsellor, the question is, as long as they continue to endanger health, the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks for lack of professionals? Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u335	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The health advisor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, has the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u336	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Prado, ladies and gentlemen. The 2020 Strategy collects an axis for us fundamental: professionals committed and cared for by the organization. Different lines of work with a view to achieving a flexible and open organization to everything that contributes to the improvement of our health system. Di, what do we do in Sergas? So, look, Sergas has been a pioneer in a lot of measures that are being taken, for a deficit of professionals that is not a topic of Galicia, which is a theme from all over Spain; see Catalonia, Andalusia, Madrid... all autonomous communities. But on the one hand, we started to increase the training of specialists. In recent years we have seen increased the supply of MIR squares, especially in family medicine, and in the last two calls we have increased thirteen more than in 2016. Moreover, as you well know, because there is already the Minister of Health in a daily -- which I think is published on Sunday -- where she herself recognizes that the Council of Health in Galicia is asking for a working group for the search for more professionals, and especially the increase in the number of places accredited in pediatrics, so that it can pass from twenty, as at present, to twenty-six. But we also take measures such as retention of talent, with the late retirement age. Galicia was the last of the autonomous communities that made retirement compulsory at the age of sixty-five, and it was also the first to lift this ban and increase the retirement age, year by year, up to the age of seventy, and so it is at our meetings with union representatives. It also improves another very important factor: improving working conditions. So we continue with public job offers, exhausting the maximum rate of replacement. We signed in April 2017 an employment stabilization plan and personal statistical supply plan for Sergas, with most trade unions; OPEs not only remained, but also increased, and the offer of 2016 was 818 squares, doubled practically in 2017 in 1,616, and we just published the last one with 1,460 squares. We also prioritized the categories proper to the first level of care, such as family doctor, pediatrician and primary care, who specializes in family and community nursing. We also highlight once again this family medicine, pediatrics and primary care and specialized nursing, categories that we created as specialists in pediatrics and family medicine for the first time in this autonomous community. We also did the open and permanent transfer contest, which is now copying other autonomous communities; in fact, 1,806 adjudications, with 293 family doctors who were able to make this open and permanent transfer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u337	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u338	And also, of course, we approved for the first time the ordinary professional career system for 22,000 Sergas workers, and also at the sectoral table we signed in October the Agreement amending the Temporary Staff Selection Pact, even some union talked about historical agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u339	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u340	Look at this, Counselor, you live on your planet Sergas, right? He lives on his planet Sergas, where he must be with an isolation system such that there are no problems there, because there is actually conflict in Catalonia, but there is a question, there they sit with the professionals and they come to an agreement. [[Applause]] I made you here a series of conflicts that you have on the table, and you don't even have the slightest intention to talk to them, I just suppose you think the problems with rotting are solved by yourself, and you're not going to. So, not your planet Sergas lacks a lot of self-criticism, solutions are missing, and it's pretty high-powered, because professionals need to listen to them and dialogue. Of course, in his Counsellor, there is -- and I'm asking him to do it -- and what can't be, there's no professional. The solution cannot be that there are no professionals, leave the population without assistance and say that we have already increased in thirteen the request for training and we have increased from twenty to twenty-six... Look, with this increase, how many years are it necessary for them to reach the number of professionals they are demanding? It's just that you're laughing, I suppose this is a booty of hair thinking that with this increase it's going to be solved, and it's not solved at all. The demand of professionals is necessary. Of course, the lack of staff isn't solved by these numbers that you just said, because they're not enough, not enough, for the number of retirements you're producing. The offer of squares, of course, with the call of oppositions being made, or jokes, of course, is totally insufficient; and, of course, the solution goes by having a policy of staff with minimum rights to avoid escape in search of might have dignified conditions, which ultimately enables them to have a minimally decent working life, which is not the one that Sergas offers him, or much less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u341	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u342	—Finished, Mr President. — Your labour policy, the labour policy of the People's Party in these nine years, I have assumed a setback in the working conditions without a comparison for Sergas' staff, and the only solution is rectification, and I would like to thank you for today, Mr. Almuño, what you have done is to commit yourself to — with all these conflicts on the table — to negotiate with these professionals and to sit down and talk. That'd be what I had to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u343	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The health advisor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u344	I am on planet Sergas, and you must be on planet Yupi, because on planet Sergas we sit with almost all the unions and arrive at plans for stabilisation of the professional career, — let me speak, please, on planet Sergas, for the first time in Sergas. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Where exactly did you get it? Where? So, you do live isolated, you live taking pictures in health centers and hospitals, that's what you use. No, all of you, the opposition is about that, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we've been working since the Health Council and we've been taking measures to make up for the shortage of professionals, a lot of measures, not one, and a lot of measures. The number of professionals in the system has increased by 1,544 since 2008. It is necessary to point out that Galicia, in addition to exhausting 100% of the replenishment rate, is the only autonomous community that has maintained the annual calls of the OPE, the only one, which will allow on the 2017-2020 horizon — as we have reached agreement with the representatives of the workers — that 5,000 people access a stable square, trying to take the target below what was agreed at the national level of 8% when it reached 5%. We call for an increase in the capacity to train specialists. The MIRs who finish their training in Galicia have many possibilities to be able to exercise in our community, in fact 80% of these family doctors who finished this year are hired by Sergas; of the 69 family doctors who finished this year, the MIR, 55 are in contract with Sergas, and of course the rest is that because of different circumstances they did not want to work with us, on family issues, not be this community, or to return to another residence, they want to do another specialty. But, of course, what you want to work with us is a secure contract. We have to keep in mind that that's why we say they can't all or want to keep working with us. For the area of primary care, we study the establishment of new contractual formulas, to give greater job stability and loyalty to primary care doctors and pediatricians, who are currently negotiating with union representatives. As you see, we've been working planned through the latest legislation in all of these measures, and, as I say, the solution to such a complex problem will not come from a single measure, but from many measures taken in a single way: both to increase, stabilize and retain talent, and to improve labour leadership. Finally, in order for our professionals to feel careful and to overcome the shortage of professionals, a problem that affects — as we say — not only our community, but — as we are seeing — all the communities of Spain. In fact, we were able to form a working group in the ministry with the previous minister, with Dolors Monserrat, because the next minister has already — as you know — ceased, and with this new minister we are trying to reactivate this working group and certainly look for joint solutions. It's no use for the Greek community to increase the number of MIRs if the other communities don't. So I think that's where we have to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u345	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Rosa Oubina Solla and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia in relation to the 2018 harvest campaign in the five designations of origin of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u346	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs Oubiña Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u347	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In Galicia, Counselor, we can boast of our wines as the pride of the Italian countryside. Of all, it is known that both whites and reds enjoy a recognized prestige, both nationally and internationally, so they make our autonomous community a quality reference in the wine sector. We have five designations of origin: "Ribeiro", "Rías Baixas", "Rías Baixas", "Valdeorras", "Monterrey" and "Ribeira Sacra", all of them — as we know — have supported, represent and regulate the highest quality standard of wines produced in our community. The importance of the wine sector is clear. As a rural dynamizer, we value our cultural heritage and also our ethnological heritage; it acts as a people's fixar agent; and also as an important economic means for people who choose to live in rural areas and be able to live in rural areas. The year 2017 was complicated by some designations of origin, in which both the frosts and the sarabia threw away some of the crops, although as a whole it was excellent in both quantity and quality. This year 2018 did not start with a good foot, we have to say that the adverse weather conditions in spring favored the emergence of fungi attacks, which I thought was a great concern, as well as a double effort the wine growers had to make. But the good time of the last few months before harvest allowed them to collect the grapes, as we all know, in the best conditions. Therefore, given that in the last month of October — approximately mid-October or late — harvest work was completed in the five designations of origin, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, we put the following question: what assessment does the Government make of the 2018 harvest campaign in the five designations of origin of Galicia? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u348	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oubina. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. The Italian wine sector, as the honourable Member has well said, is a reference to our rural environment for its productive capacity, its quality and its external projection. Today morning we talked about the designations of origin, and I have to say that in Galicia we have thirty-six denominations of origin, which invoice more than 400 million euros as a whole, they feed and live many people and make us feel very proud of our countryside. The wine, of course, but also all the others. This is a key rescue factor in those areas where this crop prevails, which consolidates year by year as a source of wealth and employment for producing areas. The five denominations of Greek origin, and I'm going to name them again for their importance: "Monterrey", "Rías Baixas", "Ribeira Sacra", "Ribeiro" and "Valdeorras", each year, generate an estimated economic value that exceeds -- everyone notes -- the 210 million euros, plus the 15,000 wine growers and about 450 wineries. By focusing on your question already, we make a very positive assessment of the 2018 harvest, both in quantity and in quality. It must be noted, firstly, that the harvest has grown above 4% in relation to the previous campaign, that of 2017, which was affected by the frost, and reached 64 million kilograms. It's the second largest in history, after 2011. It rises above 10% in the middle of the 2009-2018 decade. And the data by designation of origin are: "Monterrey", 5.5 million kilograms, doubles over last year, because "Monterrey" was very affected by frost; "Ries Baixas", 38.6 million kilograms; "Ribeira Sacra", 6.1 million kilograms; "Ribeiro" 8.9 million kilograms; and "Valdeorras", 4.6. In addition to this data, we can highlight a number of conclusions, important to all of us here. This year the three denominations of lower production, "Ribeira Sacra", "Valdeorras" and "Monterrey" increased the quantity sold. It's true that "Sacre River" and "Monterrey" above the average of the last decade. The "Rias Baixas" source name was located this year at 60% of the total. On the other hand, D. O. "Ribeiro" and D. O. "Rías Baixas" even though they went down they made very little significant. The traditional crop varieties, and this data for us is very important, potentially quality wine producers, still have a fundamental weight in the whole of the harvest, and so: the blue grape 71% of the total white grape, oak 10.4% of the total white grape, enjoy 10.3% and lied in paint almost 80%. I mean, we're talking about the Greek wines being made in Greek territory and with native varieties of Greek, they have the uniqueness that can be placed at any table of the best restaurants in the world. Finally, I think we can be very satisfied with these results, and we must congratulate all the wine growers, winemakers, ethnologists and other agents in the sector for their magnificent work, which consolidates the campaign after the campaign the great prestige achieved by our wines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u350	Thank you very much, Counselor. To formulate the replica has the word to Mrs Oubiña Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u351	Thank you, President. Mr. Rural Counsellor, with the data you just made it easy, we can say that the Greek wines of the five designations of Greek origin have good health, apart from that they are very healthy as well. In recent years its growth — as you have referred — has been spectacular, and therefore from the People's Party we want to congratulate winegrowers, winemakers and regulators for their work, but also the Council of Galicia and the Council, in this case, on the dedication and work done in behalf of the sector. But, Counsellor, I don't want to forget either — even if I didn't refer to — the beautiful and excellent wines that are prepared by the IXPs in Galicia, by protected geographical indications, which, without doubt, are also part of what is the Greek wine heritage. We therefore continue to encourage you — who is a good know-how of the sector — to continue to work to make the Greek wines the pride of rural in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the word for the reply of the Middle Rural Counsellor, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you very much for your words, I have to say that I am a good know-how of the wines and of the entire sector of differentiated quality in Galicia. I repeat, thirty-six denominations of origin and IXP that have to do to all of us who are on this camera and all of the Greeks are proud of our production. I have to announce that today, in addition to this, at the Council meeting, we have approved an amendment to the structure of the Council which strengthens — even more so — our commitment to differentiated quality. Within the Galaga Food Quality Agency — Agacal — there is a new area, a new sub-direction, which will be constantly thinking about the designations of origin and the IXPs, and which will lead a control department and a promotional department, a strong bet for our quality production. I repeat, thirty-six denominations of origin and IXP and more than 400 million euros of billing per year, with products with added value, with products with uniqueness and with products that make us all proud to be Greek. You spoke well of the fact that in addition to having the five designations of origin — which you referred to in your question — we have also geographical indications: they are Barba-Iria, Betanzos, Valley of Mine, Ourense and Rivers of Morrazo. There they're doing great things, too, with some grapes that were practically missing. I want to remember here the legitimate white, which has a lot of travel. And the data available shows that in these production zones, the grapes collected were grown by about 20%, and we passed from 121 to 145 tons. They're still small figures for D.O., but, well, there's an important bet going on. So we're faced with a round success of our wine productions sheltered. I insist on recognizing here the renewed effort of harvesters, wine cellars, technicians, who are the real protagonists of this film. We will continue to support this productive issue both in terms of its promotion and in terms of internal and external promotion. I repeat what I said before the structure. And I also want to point out that only this year 2019 we plan to bring up a total of EUR 5 million in support for this sector, with two lines of support: one, for the improvement of manufacturing and marketing facilities, and another, for promotion measures in third countries. So our commitment to the sector is out of the question and so we will keep it in the future, because we are convinced that wine is one of the great values of the Galician agriturismo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u354	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the realization by the government of some analysis in relation to the current situation of the raising of the perception and forecast towards the campaign of Christmas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u355	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u356	Good afternoon. Counselor, anyone who at one time had seen how the extraction of the realization takes place knows that it is — and we are talking about — one of the professions, probably the toughest that exist: jumping the rocks, dodging the blows of the sea and also drawing out the stones on the road leaving the Administration. Yes, the stones, and I speak, for example, of the last sanctions; I refer to the confrereries where there is a plan of exploitation in which there are coexistence of foot and fleet permits; in which in time — as you know — the people who have permission to the fleet go to land. The problem is that there is no single criterion with regard to what is bad weather, because really, what is bad weather?, maresade?, maresadeigna?, hard dizzy? So since there is no single criterion there are discrepancies and these discrepancies ultimately resulted in sanctions against workers. How hard it is for you to sanction a person when you decide to choose the safest thing for your job is not to put your life at risk or put your ship at risk! How hard it is to have to go to justice! And less bad than justice — and fortunately — has just cancelled the first of more than 50 fines to Baiona's fellows for unconstitutional. Because the ruling says, on the one hand, that the penalty is annulled because it is contrary to the law; but on the other hand — as you know — accuses the autonomous administration of undermining fundamental rights, because no one can be convicted or punished for actions or omissions that at the time of the occurrence did not constitute an offence, lack or administrative offence, because they were punished as if they had not been allowed to do so, and they had permission. And we already told him that, Counselor, we warned him that they were unfairly punishing them. So today, take a step forward, remove that stone, cancel those pending sanctions to resolve, counsellor, and avoid that process to people, because if you don't have a rain of unfavorable judgments. And those judgments that will provoke are cost problems for the Union, but they will also make workers and workers suffer an ugly process, an unpleasant process, to some people who only want to work and — as I told them — not put their lives or their boat at risk; especially now that they have other concerns, such as the low levels of production towards the realization at the level of these dates we find ourselves, which are the dates of Christmas. [[Applause]] So, as we say to you, instead of having to be worried about those stones that will leave the Administration on the way, please let them work. There's a lot of reasons why fellows fight about the low level of production of this campaign. In any case, these are issues that arise from their observation-based experience over previous years. And what they're asking is that we do a scientific study that determines what are the real causes of this decline in production. So what we're asking you today is whether you've carried out some sort of analysis or if you've deepened into this low output of perception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u357	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. To answer by the Government, the Councillor of the Sea, Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, as you will well understand the Council of the Sea is aware of the situation of the state of perception. You know that we have a network of local biologists who are responsible for tracking all the operating plans and who are in perfect coordination with the biologists of technical assistance who have all the fishermen's confrries to advise them in the follow-up of the plans. So this situation that you transfer from lack of resources to rocks does not correspond to the references made to us by zone biologists and the assistance of the confrries themselves. What they do is they're simply related to fluctuations, to periodic annual variations that occur in the exploitation of any resource. We do not doubt the appreciation that the perceptions themselves can make in their areas of work, but we do have to support these statements with the scientific data that give us those who are responsible for tracking the plans through conditions that are perfectly measurable. And the data from these biologists tells us that in a homogeneous comparison, and without being the year 2018 a pointer year, we can say that it's not outside the normal parameters of the historical series of the last fifteen years. So much so that the consolidated data since the end of October can say that this year's discharges take place over other years, such as the year 2009 or 2015, are below the average of the last five years at 6%. And speaking of income, we have to point out that the average exceeds the annual average of the last five years. But in these comparisons we have to take into account, too, that in addition to the biological criteria of the species we must also take into account other factors of exploitation: how the days that professionals can get out of trouble, that tops have spread every day, as is the quality of the perception drawn in each of the areas or corners are the operating plans that are in force. In this respect — and as an indicator of evolution — it should be noted that the order of specific resource exploitation plans is about to be approved by 2019. It is planned to approve a total of thirty-seven vision management plans across the coast of Galicia. And that in addition to requests for vacant coverage that may occur in the development of this plan, increases of a total of ten fellows were requested on foot, twenty-one for boats and fifty-two crew members. Similarly, there is no generalized decrease in the extraction tops or expected expected work days. We need to know that this situation would not happen if the remedy was really bad, since neither zone biologists nor confrerer technical assistance biologists would provide favourable reports for the approval of these plans. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u359	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Toja Suárez has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u360	Counsellor, if you have these scientific and technical data, what you have to do — as we always ask you — is to share them with the Commission here in Parliament, because it will not be that we are in a spin-off of the mysterious case of the European Bacteriological Bivalves Laboratory. It won't be! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] On the other hand, I see you haven't answered anything about the sanctions, I'm going to catch your methodology as well, I imagine you're waiting for later, so I don't have a replica; but, well, as I tell you, I'm going to catch it. What we are asking you to examine developments over the past few years, forecasts for the future, to determine the needs for continuous checks as required by the sector — because the sector is asking for continuous checks. By the way, when the sector calls for continued fences to do it in squares, it does it at the school gates where its children and children are waiting, it does it in the markets as well. Not only does he do it in the consulting rooms, in the golf courses... but the people who work at sea speak in that kind of place. So you have to listen to the people of the sea wherever you speak. According to the IGE — that the IGE, by the way, is not a name of a Corme tavern, that the IGE is the Galego Institute of Statistics — in 2011 there were three hundred sixty-seven shellfish licenses to perceive. Right now, well, in 2017, which is the last data, there are three hundred twenty-four; as you see, there are fewer. So, of course, what we ask him for is the same thing we ask him exactly when we talk about TACs and quotas: anticipation. Scientific studies... yes, no laugh, counselor, it's the same, anticipation. If the sector indicates that there's a problem and it's talking about continuous leaks over a period of time, because do some studies to determine if those leaks would actually be a solution, as the sector points out. That's what we ask you to do, we think it's a reasonable question and that, therefore, there's no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u361	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u362	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, look at you, for more than 20 years now, we have started exploiting specific resources through farm plans that are being co-existed between the sector and the administration. And there are no generalized sightings for all production areas, since this would mean that the market would be wasted; what you do is rotation through the different areas. Each plan of operation for each confraría is divided into several sub-zones and the fellows, working together with the Administration, which they propose is to work according to the times of the year in the different areas. In such a way that each of the areas even has periods of fences of more than six months, with which it allows sustainable exploitation over time and allows the recovery of perception from day to day. And so we're going to improve the quality of our perception. I don't know what you want from where I have to listen to the sector. I hear the sector in the ports, I hear the sector in the confrries, I hear the sector in my office, I hear the sector in the meetings of the Galician Fisheries Council. I hear the sector everywhere and we're doing a continuous evaluation. And you ask me for the scientific and technical reports of biologists. Look, every farm plan presented by the sector during September, of which are its proposals, is evaluated by the Council's technicians. These reports are part of the file that then approaches the General Directorate, which makes the proposal for approval of that plan; everything is done with rigour and everything is done with transparency. And you can ask the Administration for any plans, review them, see the reports, see the industry proposals, and also see how the technicians' reports say what they can and what they can't approve of each of these plans. Of course, everything has to be looked at and read with affection and discretion. Because if you come here to say that the ruling of the appeal to walk when you have a fleet permit gave the understanders the reason... you, one of two, or you haven't read the sentence or you want to keep deceiving the sector. [[Applause]] The judgment gives the Council's reasons. The only thing that says the judgment to the Council is that instead of typizing it as a serious mistake, it had to be classified as a slight flaw. [[Applause]] But, if you want, I read it exactly for you to make it not file, says: "The recurrent and those who, as he had done on foot that day, being allowed to do so from the ship, cannot claim that the extraction of the resource takes place on board it only on days of calm or ventiline, according to the Beaufort scale, which corresponds to winds from 0 to 3 knots, because then they would never go out to faenar. The best evidence that the sea and atmospheric conditions on the day of the complaint did not prevent or hinder the extraction of the resource from a ship is that other professionals have access to it in this way, as reflected in the daily report prepared by the fishermen. What happens is that, despite being possible from the boat, it will be more feasible or convenient to do so on foot."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u363	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u364	Here, Mrs. Toja, I'm telling you, there's a barrier to access the extraction of the resource on foot and there's a possibility of doing it from the boat. And what the Council allows is that in certain exceptional cases those who have the permission to go from ship can do it on foot. Let's not confuse people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u365	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u366	...and don't irreverent people, read what the sentence says and see who's right. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-12-05-DSPG095.u367	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished the agenda items, we finished the session. Ends the session at 6:20 p.m.
