ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1966	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 20th. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will sit. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House and representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Directorate for European Integrations of BiH and the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy. At this moment, there are 14 delegates, four of them from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people, five from the Serb people. We expect to join the work of the Halid Genjac delegate. As indicated in the invitation to the session, and in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 20th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the delegate Sredoje Nović, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdic; delegate Sifet Podžić, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić; delegate Dragutin Rodić, for the Council of Ministers of BiH; delegate Mario Karamatić, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Denis Zvizdić; delegate Martin Raguž, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić. I note that delegates Sredoje Nović, Sifet Podžić, Dragutin Rodić and Mario Karamatić were unable to get an answer to the delegate's question at the last session, so they will receive the answer at this session. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure, these announcements were delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would like to remind you that we have also sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct TV transmission of this part of the session, in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers, so I give the word to Mr. Sredoja Nović. Here's your esteemed colleague. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1967	Dear Chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, distinguished delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you all, ladies and gentlemen. My question is very short – What is the Council of Ministers of BiH doing to speed up the payment of old foreign savings in the Ljubljanska Banka? One of the perhaps strongest and most painful issues plagued by thousands of BiH citizens. We have been witnesses for several days to say, not to say a month, when there was a dramatic situation around one of the savings here in the city of Sarajevo, and thousands of people are waiting for their foreign exchange savings. It is constantly said in public that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not fulfilled its obligations to the Ljubljanska Banka, has not delivered the necessary documents, and we seem silently to go beyond that and we expect that if several hundred or thousands of people appear to fall into disquiet in sickness, then we will appear to be opening up psychiatric clinics, so that we can accommodate these people who have huge money and who are using their money for someone else. I simply think it is unacceptable that for 7-8 months now, as the Ljubljanska Banka has approved payment requests and people are sent to hundreds, as much as I am informed, and thousands of people have already sent their demands to the Ljubljanska Banka, but no other citizens in BiH are defacto not even certified to have foreign savings and will be paid to him in due time. So I ask for an answer, what does the Council of Ministers do, or whose, if it is not possibly the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, jurisdiction and what will be done in the next period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1968	Thank you, Mr. Nović. The two-minute right to respond will be achieved by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the esteemed Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1969	I thank you, and I welcome you all very much. I want first of all to say that it is very bad why this issue has not been resolved before and why the Council of Ministers and Bosnia and Herzegovina has not completed its necessary tasks before, so this did not have to wait for this Council of Ministers of BiH, it could have ended much earlier, as Croatia did. But here it was, waiting for this Council of Ministers, and this Council of Ministers sort of solved the problem. Therefore, it adopted a Decision on the establishment of an Expert Group to monitor the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, which is based on the announcement of the Republic of Slovenia that the start of verification of savings and payments of old foreign savings will begin from 1 December 2015, delivered everything necessary for BiH's level to the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, which took place from 5 to 7 June 2016 and clearly established that Bosnia and Herzegovina has implemented all the necessary assumptions, so that payment should start from autumn of this year. As regards the current story on the delivery of lists, it is not as you know in the power of the Council of Ministers, it is in the jurisdiction of entity governments, entity finance ministries and entity securities commissions and privatisation agencies that should clearly deliver lists of whether one of the old foreign savings has used its old foreign savings for any other purpose, in order for Slovenia to have complete information about it and afterwards to start paying off payments, such as payments to both Croatian citizens and all others in the same status as BiH. So, the Law adopted by the Republic of Slovenia, based on exactly the activities that we have launched, is identical to other laws that have sought to save other countries, so that they will be paid off, seems to me to be full of plus 50% interest, can be one time or in any other way, and this should start as early as autumn this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the one-minute-long reaction, the Honorable colleague, delegate Sredoje Nović, has the right. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1971	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome, of course, and it is good that the Council of Ministers has taken what the chairman has said today. Of course, whether it was supposed to wait or not, about that-then. In this country, thousands of things aren't done 20 years ago, and they're still waiting for their turn to end, so I wouldn't discuss it. I just think that no matter what I respect, the Council of Ministers has limited jurisdiction in some part of the job, but it would be good if either the Council of Ministers or the Homes or this Parliament had directed and recommended to the entity governments, that this is, that this issue is being accelerated and that there is really no longer any reason to diverge with it, especially if in June of this year and that meeting was held at which everything was definitely perfected. Because otherwise, it won't mean anything to the citizens whether it's the jurisdiction of this person or the jurisdiction of that citizen, he expects his savings or his funds to be paid off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1972	Thank you too, Mr. Nović. The next with the right to ask a question is a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sifet Podžić. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1973	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. My question is for the chairman of the Council of Ministers – Why did the Council of Ministers not adopt Rules of Procedure on Work and Work Plan 2016 for the NATO Integration Process Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina? So, the Council of Ministers is the institution that formed the Commission for NATO integration processes, whose members are members of the Decision to form representatives of different ministries and different institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 38th session of the BiH Council of Ministers, held in January 2016, the Rules of Procedure discussed the work and work plan of the Commission. These are not adopted by the Council of Ministers and my question is simple – why are these two acts, which are very important for this Commission, not adopted today? Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1974	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. Right to respond, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1975	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. The answer is also very simple because we still haven't received a revised Rules of Procedure or a Commission Work Plan on the basis of the discussions we had on the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2016. Therefore, it is a normative act which must, above all, have the necessary opinions, from the Office of Law to the Ministry of Justice. We did not have those opinions at the time when we discussed this act, and the Council of Ministers' commitment is that we fully support this Commission. That is why it is headed by the Commission and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. But at the session itself, we have given a number of suggestions or adjustments that we think will significantly improve and qualitatively improve the Commission's work plan, as well as the efficiency in the process of action, decision making and taking place in this very important process for us, such as the NATO integration process. Therefore, we expect the corrected and Rules of Procedure on the work and work plan of the Commission on the basis of the discussions which the Commission president received at the Council of Ministers. After that, positive opinions are in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers. And there's no reason that at the next session, if we get it, this material isn't adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1976	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Podžić if you'd like a response, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would be my pleasure if it were true that already at the next session, I did, however, comply with Article 155. Rules of Procedure (4) and (5) I request a written answer to this question. And I'm going to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that I'm looking for this for a simple reason why someone would have to tell the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on July 10th after the Warsaw summit, who was to blame for not activating the MAP for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Look, please, we just think we need to get out of this vicious circle. You have Mr. Josip Brkić, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and the entire Commission who is doing a fantastic, excellent job, but it is high time that we tell who is not doing the job, who is blocking Josip Brkić. To say openly which minister does not give when his associates prepare a speech, to put Euro-Atlantic integration, to cross the Atlantic to put on... I mean, just a little bit, I don't think it's correct. [[You don't understand.]] We have to be open to the end, Josip Brkić and this commission are doing a great job and they all made this happen in July. But we have people doing it so it doesn't happen. Now, please, Chairman, if you've seen me as a delegate of an opposition party here, forget I haven't asked anything, I'm not asking for a written answer, I don't know anything, if you've seen me as a man who's been living this process since 2004, and I claim responsible here that 5 Bosnia and Herzegovina is preventing this process from European integration. If that's how you understand me, then please answer me, because it's going to need for the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1978	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1979	I just, I know, time I know, but here's two more sentences, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1980	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1981	So, I'm talking about the question of activation of the MAP. Out of respect for colleagues who have a different opinion on the process, I am not talking about full membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in NATO, and please, gentlemen, I've worked a little bit more on this topic, I've done my doctorate case here on this subject, please the MAP says, the MAP first solves political issues. So let's activate the MAP, solve political issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1982	Thank you, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1983	You know very well, Mr. Chairman, I apologize, it has never been until now that any delegate has only been answering for a minute, so don't interrupt me either, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1984	You're in third.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1985	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1986	I'm sorry, for other colleagues, he'll resent me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1987	Okay, but believe what's heard, although I'm not saying it's true, that the Vučić will approve when we activate the MAP, I'll never be for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1988	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. So, I'm really sorry, you know that we're pretty elastic when it comes to respecting time limits. But here, the triple time limit began to flow, and I would probably be in a situation where someone would make an observation, given, let's say, the atmosphere from last session of the House of People, this, which was about the work of the College. So I'm sure that all of this is a topic, we already have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers at the 6th point behind the Minutes, I assume you will find a way to make sure that all views that are certainly referenced can be announced and that you will not be denied the right of delegates to declare what are the views of your or your political options. Thank you. We are now moving to work on the next issue raised by the distinguished colleague, delegate Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1989	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question concerns the following – when will the BiH Council of Ministers adopt the Regulation on the regulation of the maximum price of medicines in BiH? Reason - BiH residents pay the most expensive medicines of all countries in the region and spend more money even from individual countries in Europe because the Regulation has not yet been adopted. The regulations of authority have been trying to bring it back since 2011 but it's been unsuccessful. In addition to citizens, health insurance funds from which significant resources could be invested in the health system and improving the provision of services to patients are also suffered. It is estimated that some 900 million KM has been lost over the past 8 years due to the absence of the rules, and they could soon lose another $70m in support of the World Bank if this document is not adopted. I know it's been working on this document for a long time, so I'm interested in how far it's come and had a chance to adopt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1990	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The issue is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and the chairman answers on behalf of the Council ofminsitarians. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1991	Oh, yeah, since all the questions are addressed to the chairman today, okay. I thank the gentleman for asking. The situation regarding the Regulation on the price of medicines is the following, and you yourself said in your question that it was an assessment. We did not want to work and make decisions based on estimates, they are different and there is a huge proportion between the estimated amount of savings or how much money BiH has lost so far. Some believe it is 900 million, as you say, some believe it is less than 100 million, depending on the calculation and the approach to the issue. But let's get back to the relevant facts. As you know, the Medicines Agency is in accordance with Article 84(2) of the Law to prepare that Regulation and we received that Regulation from an opportunity several days ago, the final and final version of that Regulation. He went to the opinion of the Office for Law and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH. These positive opinions have not yet been received from these competent institutions and when these positive opinions come, we will put it on the agenda of the Council of Ministers and consider the issue. In the meantime, we tried to contact the entity governments, to see their 7 views, and on occasion we got a positive view, that the Regulation on medicines should be entered into the Council of Ministers procedure, that the same with certain suggestions and corrections should be adopted. At the same time, a whole series of interviews with domestic companies, based on the original proposal and the text of the Regulation, were considered to have a very bad impact on domestic production. As a result, additional analyses have been made, the World Bank was involved, and based on these analyses, there have been some adjustments in the Regulation itself, which will allow for lower prices of medicines, compatibility with medicines in the countries of the environment, but in some ways will not fully compromise domestic production, at the same time not putting it in any position where it will be dominant on competing companies, on competition that imports drugs and pharmaceuticals into Bosnia and Herzegovina. So as soon as we get a positive opinion from the competent institutions, I, as the chairman of the ministers, will put the Council of Ministers on the agenda. I have read this form and this text of the new Proposal for a Regulation on Medicinal Products and as far as I'm concerned, it is acceptable for me and in that sense I will vote for this new and last version of the text of the Medicinal Products Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1992	Thank you, Mr. Zvizdić. Mr. Rodić you have the right to react if you wish. Here you go, for one minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1993	Thank you. I thank Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope that this Regulation will finally see the light of day, because I think it is of the great interest of the citizens and BiH, because the fact is whether or not the estimates are, that we are paying for the most expensive medicines in BiH in the whole region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1994	Thank you. The word goes on by distinguished fellow delegate Mario Karamatić. Mr. Karamatić, you are also asking your question to the chairman, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1995	I thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Well, my question in one part is quite similar to that referred to by Honorable counterpart Sredoje Nović and refers to the possibility that.... they have the money of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the end of the year, Bosnia and Herzegovina has had 3 whole and one billion non-retired credit marks, for which it paid 3.4 million pens in 2015 alone, while 2 billion and 100 million are waiting to be invested, we are in charge of the new 550m euros, i.e. 1 billion and 100 million marks to be returned in the next 13 years. There's probably a problem, in my opinion, that it's hard to get 8 people to do their job and apply properly. But what I was worried about were the semi-information that was circulating. In the past session of this distinguished House, among other things, the governor of the Central Bank of BiH, Mr. Senad Softić, and my question concerning loans in Swiss francs, answered precisely, quoting from a stenogram – in this latest letter with the IMF, few of these conversions are also touched, but this is not yet agreed properly, so we will see what the IMF's reaction to the problem will be. So the International Monetary Fund should decide on the fate of our citizens and the robbers of their funds, according to the respected Mr Softić. The information that is circulating, and you have heard a similar question at the House of Representatives, is that you, Mr. Zvizdić, Prime Minister Fadil Novalić of the Federation and Mrs. Željka Cvijanović agreed with the IMF that you will not conduct a conversion of credit in Swiss francs if it takes effect in exchange for 550m euros in credit. My question is precisely – is it true? I sincerely hope not, and I am convinced that it is not and that you will deny it and that you will now answer me, Mr Karamatić, it is not true, we have not sold 10 thousand of our citizens to the International Monetary Fund, gave up 900 million marks that Hypo Bank will draw from BiH in exchange for 1 billion and 100 million loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1996	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. The word has been respected by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1997	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Karamatić, that's not true. So, in a seven-hour conversation with the IMF, no single sentence or word has been mentioned on the subject. So in the letter of intent presented to us and discussed at the last meeting, there is no specific theme at all. There is, of course, one chapter that deals seriously with the issue of the banking system in BiH, along with their professional, technical, financial and any other assistance, so that in the coming period we can never again be able to liquidate 2 or 3 very significant banks within a few months, and that many public institutions, including citizens, lose their deposits. Therefore, only the introduction of new modern, modern standards, control and strengthening of the banking system, and not the subject, were discussed. And with regard to the first part of your discussion, the loans you are talking about are loans that have a very different purpose, which are intended directly for the realization of certain projects and is certainly a matter in place, it should be asked to those who are in charge of implementing these projects, why these projects are in the stagnation phase or why they are not dynamic enough to monitor the credit wars themselves through the implementation of the projects themselves. And the biggest advantage of this IMF loan is that it is actually followed by very serious, structural reforms in many areas that will significantly strengthen BiH in the fiscal policy segment of the banking system, strengthening administration, tax controls and all other obligations that will definitely regulate these systems in BiH, because it is an obligation that every next tranche will go only when the IMF mission examines 9 whether we have realised what will be defined in the letter of intent, it is one very important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1998	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karamatić, you have the right to react. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u1999	I'm happy with the answer. I didn't honestly expect anything different, I thank Mr. Zvizdić and for myself. I thank him on behalf of the 9.804 citizens who have these loans, and I think that this has relieved them about the future, and I hope that together you and I at the Council of Ministers and we in the Parliamentary Assembly will somehow manage to get civil servants to finally start doing their jobs, so that we can also implement these 2 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2000	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. The next and last one for today's session, the word has been given by distinguished fellow delegate Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2001	Thank you, Mr. President, and welcome to all present envoys and members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman. My question is very simple, it was addressed to the Council of Ministers chairman – what are the real chances, therefore, that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be granted EU membership candidate status in 2017? Before I explain briefly why I am asking this question, I would therefore like to welcome the way in which the chairman of the Council of Ministers and most members of the Council of Ministers communicate with the House of Peoples, not only the presence of the sittings but also one active relationship. And I think that's one move forward. And what made me ask this question is, in fact, the time Bosnia and Herzegovina is losing and it is radically losing in terms of the announced reforms and the steps that we have all committed together, and the government and the opposition, that we will take advantage of the new European focus and start things from a dead end. So, we're going to have a report on the European Integration Directorate here today, we're going to have a technical review, we're going to have one dynamic, but we're essentially not going to have answers why we haven't solved the key things, publishing the results of the list, the Coordination Mechanism, the use of IPA funds. And just to set you up, from the handover of an application that I understand is part of both political folklore and daily politics and political positioning and that was needed in a certain way to the European Commission and to us, it's been almost half a year, and that we haven't yet been able to figure out any of those things that were said to have been solved yet. And the announcement that the questionnaire will arrive and that we will succeed in 2017 is, in fact, the top 10 strategic priorities of this country and all should contribute to the realization and I really pray, one open and precise answer to this issue, especially after meeting yesterday with Mr. Hana, the Neighbourhood and Enlargement Commissioner and after held meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Stabilization and Association Committee. We have yesterday a statement by the foreign trade and economic relations minister that when it comes to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the application of the principle of traditional trade, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not at all in a position to negotiate, but we are in a position to take or leave. We knew that 7-8 months ago, but it's been 7-8 months for us to know now, the economy is losing, the economy is losing, people are leaving, so here this, I think this is an important question, no, I'm telling you this as a question of your responsibility, that we understand each other, but you are still at the top of a pyramid of institutional that reflects the political will of the parliamentary majority and within that parliamentary majority we have an announcement, therefore, that after this relationship with the census, things will tighten up to the end in BiH, that the announcement of defacto blockades is being talked about political fraud and that I'm not talking any further, here I hope that I haven't exceeded much time. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2002	Just double. Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has been respected by the chairman of the Council ofminsitarians, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2003	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President, for asking the question. The prospects for Bosnia and Herzegovina to win candidate status in 2017 are realistic and promising if we all work to realize those tasks ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But if we... only declared at the beginning of 2015, and this was signed by the members of the Presidency, the presidents of all political parties, adopted both Houses of Parliament, if this is just a declarative relationship and a declarative commitment to European integration, and in real life and in real tasks such processes are obstructed, then of course it is not the vijeć of Ministers that can only end it. So, we can only end this together, all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions together with other levels of government involved in these processes. And I sincerely hope that this was not a declarative commitment, i.e. so far it has proved that it is not a declarative but a real definition that we are going towards European integration and we have shown this by adopting a number of documents that have preceded and handed over applications, but also by adopting a series of documents that will now precede the Council for Foreign Affairs, which will be somewhere in July, and which will likely reach a conclusion to the European Commission to start preparing a questionnaire for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would then come about in the autumn of this year. We are practically before the end, i.e. as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, one of those two conditions, we adopted yesterday, or the resolution report on the completion of the technical negotiations for the adaptation of the SAA, and this report has been sent further to the Presidency to confirm it, which will ultimately lead to ratification of such an act, but which will take five, six months, since all 28 EU countries must approve the finalisation of technical negotiations concerning the adaptation of the SAA. What we had the opportunity to hear from an authorised negotiator, the data he presented are data that are quite desirable for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that are much better than we had when these talks began, which means that, that the European Commission fully understood the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and to a significant extent such 11 understanding was incorporated into the text of the finalisation of technical negotiations with the SAA. So, this condition is practically the moment when the Presidency approves it enough to take a decision on the preparation of the questionnaire on 17 July, and by then we will certainly have the finalized text of the Coordination Mechanism that will be adopted by all competent institutions, all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if we keep working at this pace and keep this kind of readiness to move forward towards EU integration, then Bosnia and Herzegovina will certainly be a candidate, obtaining candidate status in 2017. The same will happen, if two more sentences can happen, to look back at the last discussion of the respected representative Podžić, it will happen in connection with the MAP if we continue to work at that pace, and we have a consensus when we talk about the MAP, we are not talking about NATO membership but about the activation of the MAP, if we all continue to work at that pace then the MAP will be activated either now in Warsaw or right after that. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, we have done our part of the job in a credible way so that the MAP can be activated, six locations found registered are now that number 24 and we think that this is a credible progress in about 12 months. Other institutions also need to finish their work in order to activate the MAP. So, I'm optimistic when I talk about candidate status for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2004	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. He has the right to react, dear colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2005	I thank and thank you for your response, most of all I am really pleased, and in particular we should all be satisfied with this optimism expressed by the Council of Ministers Chairman, that it is realistic for BiH to get candidate status in 2017, but I personally cannot accept the assessment that if we continue with this dynamic, because I believe that this dynamic on these strategic issues is below the needs that BiH needs to realise for this to happen in 2017. The fact is that the Council of Ministers has only part of the responsibility in the chain, but we also have to say, therefore, that the Council of Ministers should be a locomotive and co-ordinator for resolving these open issues that clearly exist, and there are no need to push them under the carpet, the question of the list can objectively slow down this one and change some things on that path. And it also shows, therefore, that some of the things that are happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina are politically connected outside Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of dynamics, which I think the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina should know, and the Council of Ministers should clearly identify who and in what way is complicating and slowing this dynamic.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2006	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2007	And if this is said by top state officials, then, in some ways, it is necessary to locate the problem of political structure and publicly in Parliament to say that this is not more dependent on the Council of Ministers than on some centres of political power. And the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina must know in fact that this dynamic is, in fact, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a hostage of such policies, and I end up, which under the cover of the European reform of the public sector, public enterprises by political creation, not 12 by any professional and other without projects, and that is why we also have responsibility, but power above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2008	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. With this reaction, we have completed this part of today's work and are now moving to the session agenda. For the 20th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-19-850/16 since 16/03/2016; 3. Request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01-02-1-1567/16 of 27.05.2016; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (second reading), Proposer: delegate Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1-669/16 of 24.02.2016; 5. Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-134/15 of 24.12.2015 and 01.03.2016; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), proposing: delegates from the Serbian People's Club, Law No: 02-02-1-31/15 of 23.12.2015 and 26.01.2016, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), proposing: delegates from the Serbian People's Club, Law No: 02-02-1-32/15 of 23.12.2015 and 26.01.2016, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 8. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2015, issue: 01,02-28-1273/16 of 28.04.2016; 9. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 02-09- 1205/16 since 21.04.2016; 10. The current state of the European integration process: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Information on the first Stabilisation and Association Council meetings held and the Stabilisation and Association Committee between BiH and the EU and v) Action Plan for the Implementation of the 2015 Report on BiH's Priorities (Part A, concerning the competence of BiH institutions and the Council of Ministers, and Part B, relating to the institutions of the entity, Brcko District of BiH and the Canton of the Federation of BiH), material of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH, Act No: 01-50-1853/15 of 17.04.2016; 13 11. Proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Commission and the Budget of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: "The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is considered to be the provisions of Article 39. The law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions does not apply to the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications because of the specific nature of the way in which this expert body is financed (own income)", material number: 02/3-02-1-1410/16 of 15.06.2016; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Austria on Scientific and Technological Co-operation, No: 01,02-05-2-1222/16 of 16.05.2016; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Centre for Research and Innovation of the Western Balkans – WISE, issue: 01,02-05-2-1419/16 since 16.05.2016. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change and a supplement? No Niko's been reported. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples, and given that it is not voted on in accordance with Article 60. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Journal of the 19th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 14 were for, against no one, he was abstentioned 1 delegate. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska 5 for, against no one, no one abstentioned. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the minutes from the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-19-850/16 since 16/03/2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2011	Thank you. Very briefly, so from this comprehensive report of the Council of Ministers divided by the ministries, I would like to say, therefore, that progress is evident in, I would say, both in coordination and in strategy and in priorities and that one positive assessment can be given essentially by this report. However, what is definitely missing in this report, and I would say to the Council of Ministers' overall work, is this common relationship, because this more acts as a mechanically related report on the work of only ministries without a whole of a team approach which still has to exist if these complex challenges are to be addressed. So, here's one regret that's objectively missing. So, the Council of Ministers must enter these open issues, in my opinion, respecting, of course, the competence and level of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the institutions, but in that space, I think, not enough has entered as one team that can run many things that are in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I expect that one such approach will be focused in the next period. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2012	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2013	I welcome you, especially my colleague Radončić. As far as this report is concerned, extensively, largely, and everything is fine when we look at the year 2015 in which the Council of Ministers was just formed, pardoned, formed. But what we still have to say, we envoys and MPs are not satisfied with the minister's relationship with us in this sense as it is today, each time we have this same situation that some come always, and here I welcome the new minister, and some I've never seen before, and the 20th session is, let's say, one minister I've never seen. And as the children would say or these young people don't experience us, it would really be good because the sessions are always scheduled on time, for some time, for the ministers to attend at least this part of the session, and not only when they have a question and only those who have questions come, I apologize to my colleague she comes most often,.... You have terms, so you have a building next to us 20 floors, it's supposed to be an executive building and nowhere in the world is that they are both executive and legislative government, so then in 2009, so it says, temporarily the chairman of the then and Minister of Finance, but now they've all entered, so except for those three ministries that are outside the building everyone else is in this building and occupied us 3 and 4 floors. So you have really all the conditions to do well, deputies, assistants, advisors, anything unlike these MPs who are all located on the second floor, under no conditions, I can tell about the Hrvat klub, for example. I am, the chair I have, I am in a small room with colleagues Karamatić and Raguž, the three of us come from three different political options, so we have different guests and different people we call when we prepare for the session, so this one, therefore, has all the conditions that you can do well and it would be good to respect us. And let me just point out, for example. The last twenty days in the Republic of Croatia are the pursuit of representatives of the carriage, here they are today deciding whether the government will stay whether or not and then they are important representatives. We believe that we are being, the reason is that we are all guilty and electrical and printed media will always talk about MPs. And I tried to ask some questions, and I didn't know who I was gonna ask because I don't have an answer, for example. How many people work in this building? I can assume there's about a couple hundred people working, I don't know, who have a restaurant downstairs, I don't have anyone to ask, I don't have anyone to ask, whoever I asked doesn't know. But we're representatives and representatives of the strike and how much our lunch costs and what our salaries are, and I'm just saying that ministers have bigger salaries than MPs, so, with all these conditions that I've said. The number of questions over 300 speaks, which you answered last year, says you're a pretty closed system so you have to ask questions like this, I can root out and cheer it up from the media what's going on in the Council of Ministers. So, personally, I think I speak for my colleagues, and we ask for more respect for the envoys and the MPs, because there are laws here. We're one of the three pillars that should be three equals, but we're vertical, first comes the prosecution that we can't even ask, I ask and I don't have an answer, he, we don't even know their property cards, so you're ministers, and then we come as representatives at the bottom, and we're guilty of everything. So, I will absolutely accept this 2015 report knowing the circumstances in which you worked, but probably this year we won't adopt the budget, because again it's just us MPs who are to blame, so 16 of us remind you that this budget is on time, that we can discuss it and that it is good for 2017. For example, I wanted to ask, and I'm glad this year that the Presidency launched an initiative to form a working group by the end of the sixth month for foreign minister, because we don't have a law on foreign affairs yet, we have no idea what's going on in the DKP network. I've recently been to an embassy in Jordan, where our ambassador from Bosnia and Herzegovina told us that they have no conditions, and it's really one plastic chair, it's one table in the consulate of glued tiles, they don't have a camera that can track the building, and I'm talking about Jordan surrounded by Syria and all the other states. So, I'm glad that in this year, we MPs will also have the opportunity to talk about the Foreign Affairs Act. Well, then, for example. The security minister said last year after that terrorist attack, which took place in Rajlovac, at his press conference that it would be an emergency, that it was his number one task to do a law that would lay down police structures and all other structures in the state. There's someone here, we don't see it this long. I want to thank the Minister of Human Rights, because we're also talking about conventions, tonight's the topic on some television, and then it's our fault again because we're not implementing anything from the conventions that Bosnia and Herzegovina accepts and the topic is, I mean, I saw a cutting disaster, so as far as we're all guilty of not respecting each other. And then I really don't know who to ask about the register, for example. A register of children who, recently there was a protest outside this building, we don't have a register of children suffering from rare diseases. Yesterday, yesterday, I hear we don't even have a register as many voluntary blood donors, we don't have a register of diabetic children, we don't know what the birth rate of a woman in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, there's no such data at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I don't know who to, who to ask. Whether we are interested in what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, here in the Federation for the first four months five thousand and some children were born, and over 7,000 died, over 7,000. Whether the BiH state will make a strategy to improve this situation, what is happening, because we do not know what is the birth rate of the woman in BiH, so we can't even talk. And a whole series of such questions that I don't know who to say we don't have a list of. When you go to a country, you Google that country, and it throws you out as much as it is, what the revenue on your head is, as much as you know everything about that country. When you type in BiH, it's all empty, like we're on the horn of a continent. So here we'll see what happens to this year, I say I'm satisfied with 30 drafts of the law you've done, I don't know exactly how much it's accepted through our homes, you can say it's really working. If it travels so much, I don't know exactly what the results are, because this young people, the world is leaving, and we're not building a strategy to keep these young people. Whether or not these trips around the world will help us leave young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not that educated people go and do the lowest jobs in Western Europe, because there they have a job. I'm sorry, but I really have to say what I didn't agree with, and I hope this year these corrections will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2014	Thank you, colleague Džambas. The word sitting there is, dear colleague, Mr. Sifet Podžić. Here you go, Mr. Podžić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2015	So here's to taking advantage of, uh, the suggestion of the chairman, uh, since I failed to finish this topic, thank you to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2016	You stopped at Vučić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2017	Yeah, it's just you and me. I really thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, that through the answer to this second question he has touched the questions... of the plan. The only thing, therefore, and I apologize if the wrong impression is created that I say that the Council of Ministers is responsible that the MAP will not be activated, I do not think that the Council of Ministers, with some small things like the activation of the Rules of Procedure and the Work Plan of this Commission, has done very well and I know very well who is responsible and who should have done what before. But, Mr. Chairman, I think you must agree, you should agree with me that you have a minister at the Council of Ministers working against the activation of the MAP. I think that we are real and open, we are all declarative for Euro-Atlantic integration, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but there are better people who work on the euro without Atlantic integration. I'm in a hurry to say it and I want to, and I'm saying it's not the Council of Ministers, and I never wanted to say it. I just want to say that once again, this one, after the end of the cold war and after the fall of the steel curtain, no country from Poland, the countries of the Visegrad Group, the Baltic countries, to the neighbours, via Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro, Slovenia, has ever become a member of the EU before, but a member of NOTO. So I'm saying a little bit, uh, more specifically, I've been working on it, if someone thinks it's Bosnia and Herzegovina, I can just say they're wrong. And I'll say one more thing, not only did it surprise me the other day to address my dear friend and esteemed delegate Radmanović, uh, so Mr. Radmanović didn't sign just before the Republika Srpska Integration, I want to remind you gentlemen, and I don't know, I think I'm a little surprised that he's up there in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, that's not what Mr. Radmanović did. I would like you to take all "Official Messenger" number 25 from March 2008 in which it was decidently said that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the 12th session of the House of People, held on 25 March 2008 and at the 23rd session of the House of Representatives on 18 March 2008, adopted a Resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness for NATO integration. Well, Mr. Radmanović didn't vote, this House was voted by gentlemen. Is the time to revise it, let's make a deal, I'm still saying, the only thing Mr. Chairman can't agree with you, that if he's not going to be in Warsaw, and he won't tell you for sure, that he'll be soon after Warsaw, because he won't believe me, now we're in a vicious circle, and as long as we're all working on integrations, they've worked so hard on non-integrations. Let's put that on the table to say whether we are for what this Parliament has adopted or not. And this is how we're in a vicious circle, believe me, we're in a vicious circle, and it won't just go so easily until we say whether or not we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2018	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. It will Reagovaće to your performance, a distinguished fellow delegate, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2019	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, gentlemen of the chairmanship, it is a pleasure to listen to Mr. Podžić and I thank him for defending me here, although I must say that this is not necessary and I did not answer for it, I answered for his second sentence. If I understood all of you, you said – we are all here for Euro-Atlantic integration. I think it's simply not true, and I agree with Mr. Podžić's last words that we should open a debate about it. So it is clear that citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not feel the same way about the NATO alliance, it is clear that all polls show that in Republika Srpska the vast majority is against it, so this is the thing that we need to open, clear and calmly conduct the debate and this is the relationship with us. Regardless of the accuracy of these commitments and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency and everything else, so it's time to open up a debate about it, like time, here's a point today, and I suggest that we start our Euro-integration talks there too, and there's a lot to say, and not just this way to say we're all for Euro-Atlantic integration. I don't think we have and that we need to talk about this in the future completely openly and clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2020	Mr. Ognjen Tadić has the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2021	It's a replica, actually. Dear Deputy Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers. So I came forward in this very short form because I think it would be a shame to use more time on this subject, and again it would be a shame not to say next, not to be heard next. The quality of this Council of Ministers is precisely that he is not the Council of Ministers who inherited it, I would say, the infertile ideology of the euro or NATO integration, which at one time came to this country as a substitute for that pre-war ideology. So, in one empty space, something that many have treated all of us who live in this country for years to come, whether we are for the future or against the future of this country, depending on what our opinion is and what kind of discourse we have when it comes to the so-called. Euro and so-called NATO integration. And I think that insisting on these issues, and when it comes to this Council of Ministers, which I deal with life and economic problems, is actually not a real topic. You in this Report have been able to read many of the things related to the work of the Council of Ministers, improving business conditions, opening up business opportunities, promoting exports, fixing the situation in the financial sector, resolving the situation in the field of human rights, seeking to improve relations in the fight against crime and corruption, resolving the situation in various institutions, or bodies that are in specific problems, etc. I grew up early and everything. And that is the quality of this Council of Ministers, and while the Council of Ministers will, in such a way, have the support of life issues, let me also say the representative of the Alliance for Change and the Serbian Democratic Party in the first work, which I represent here in a certain way. And I think that's exactly what makes this Council of Ministers more successful than earlier calls, because earlier stimuli on this ideological matrix have, therefore, tried to idoctrate society that it's only right to think about the euro or NATO integrations, so there's controversy about what's good, what's not good, etc. So, we've been wasting our time, distracting ourselves from the important questions. 19 And in that sense, here's to the end, which I suppose is correct when I have taken the floor, and this Council of Ministers report has my support and will get my vote for this report, because it deals with this matrix that's agreed, so economic and life issues and thus provided this new quality thanks to which we can speak today to a greater number of laws and normal relationships, so let me say more seriously about the public's position that this is about some real government than it was in some peotec period. As for the position on European integration, on NATO, etc. So I think that it should be completely rationalised, especially given the processes that exist in the world and that this Council of Ministers should not be overly burdened with this in mind, in this ideological sense, given what Mr. Podžić said, and that is that at the time of this Council of Ministers, we will certainly not stand in any of the other echelon, and the question is of course what will be behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2022	Thank you very much. Word... Mr. Dragutin Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2023	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. We have today a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2015 and I think it deserves to be given the comprehensiveness of the Report, on the methodology it was done, on a number of data contained in this Report to also comment on a number of parts of this report itself. And what is very important to me is that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is often at the House of People, is here and that I simply take the opportunity to ask one question concerning the report itself, and without answering that question, it is difficult to consider everything else, and this is about human resources, and it is about the part concerning the inaugural speech of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers when he was elected chairman of the House of Representatives. I will Citirać only two things in the report concerning public administration reform, where public administration reform is also one of the preconditions for the successful integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the EU, meeting the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The public administration plays an extremely important role in the European integration process because it is one of the key instruments for implementing the necessary reforms to join the EU and a necessary tool to organise a structural and effective dialogue in the accession process. The second part says: "Although according to the 2014 Progress Report, the expected results in the public administration reform process have not been achieved, our final goal must be to achieve a level of quality of the European governance space, and to adopt and implement the common standards of EU Member States. Key priorities in public administration reform in the coming period will be aimed at selecting competent personnel and raising quality and providing services to citizens and economic operators. When I say that, first of all, I mean simplifying administrative decision-making and taking responsibility for the administration for quality work and providing evidence from official records and reducing administrative burdens, as well as simplifying procedures and the speed of resolving citizens' demands, business entities on the principle that anything they need can be obtained in one place. This involves working on strategic planning, responsible public finance management, 20 modernisation of the human potential management system, strengthening the capacity of institutions to control regulations and establish a system of reduction of administrative barriers, training of officials for strategic communication and public relations, building capacity to combat corruption in state service structures. Bosnia and Herzegovina needs responsible and professional civil servants who can quickly respond to the requirements of European integration and by their work restore the trust of citizens and business entities in public administration." I am finishing this quote here and this is about the intention of all the best, because what Bosnia and Herzegovina expects in a further period without this can't. This report by the Council of Ministers shows that when you look at what is soaring and when it comes to the Agency for State Service and everything that was done in 2015. For years, then you can see that a whole series of trainings have been carried out with support and international organisations, there the GIZ was the most active, but in some earlier period there was great support to bring human resources to the level that could be answered by performing tasks. What you can't see from this report is what these effects are after all and is all that you, Mr. Chairman, satisfied with this reform in 2015, and are we on the right track to accomplish all those tasks that are in front of us from signed and protocol and what we, as well as Parliament and all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are we on the right track for European integration and for everything that has been coming today and yesterday, Mr. Han and what is being analysed about stabilisation and accession, are we on the right track when it comes to this reform of public administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2024	Thank you too, Mr. Rodić. It remains for me to conclude that there are no further applications for participation in the discussion, but of course, if Mr. Zvizdić wishes, eventually or no need. As you wish, the word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić. I apologize to you, and I ask the technical service to allow you to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2025	Since my esteemed representative asked me a question, that's why I went out to say a few words. I think that in the overall relation to the administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Council of Ministers is very unprincipledly placed in one general corner of the new or excessive administration at all other levels of government. So, this is not such a drastic example, nor is such a case with Bosnia and Herzegovina level, and therefore we strategically and planly approach and possible new employment, aimed at those institutions that mean strengthening their functionality, thus strengthening both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the obligations Bosnia and Herzegovina has within its internal functioning, as well as in relations with neighbours and the EU, CEFTA countries, etc. So, we go to target support for those institutions, in terms of strengthening their personnel capacities, such as the State Border Service, such as police intelligence agencies, etc. and does not go with employment in those institutions that carry out the simplest administrative processes. We also strengthen certain directives, agencies and institutions, such as the Veterinary Office and other offices that are important to us at this time when we need to meet the requirements and meet the standards for exporting our products to the EU. At the same time, our Public Administration Reform Office continues to conduct numerous educations, so we offer something to other levels of government 21 and in this sense I think that in the last year our administration has become significantly more capable of doing its tasks regularly, in a timely manner. I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers has fulfilled in just nine months, here we are now approaching, almost 60% of the commitments made by the Council of Ministers in the Reform Agenda and we have fulfilled all the obligations it has, for example, the Directorate for European Integration on the European Integration, which speaks of a high level of training of civil servants working in such or similar institutions. So I just want to make it very clear... between what we have as a current situation at the Council of Ministers level and at other levels. So, I'm the one who's very open and I want to repeat it again, the advocate that police officers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to raise their salaries, because I don't see a single reason why a police officer who performs the same level of complexity of business at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have a lower salary of nearly 250 or 300 marks than police officers at the level of the Federation and Republika Srpska, and as much as 500 marks of some cantons. So when I'm talking about a possible salary increase for cops, then it can't be treated with an increased salary fund, but it's actually treated with one correct attitude towards people who do their most responsible jobs. So, I want to say very clearly that the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to be treated in a separate, separate manner or in a separate manner compared to other levels, because the number of civil servants at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we exempt more closely from the Armed Forces, is less than the number of such officials in individual cantons. And Bosnia and Herzegovina still performs very, very complex tasks in terms of its international and legal status and in general the tasks it has in key co-or constitutionally co-ordinated functions within Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations with international joint ventures. Thank you and here I also invite you to adopt the Council of Ministers' Report, I will not say, you have read it, it is in every segment a promotion compared to earlier years and areas of European integration, especially economic development, I must say that Bosnia and Herzegovina has the best economic indicators in the entire Western Balkans region at this point. So, the best vital economic parameters in the Western Balkans are at this point those indicators that BiH has, I think it may cause some doubts, but I can now speak for the next half hour about such relevant indicators from GDP growth, to exports, reductions in external trade imbalances, numbers employed in one condensed time, increases in income. So the increase in indirect tax revenues for the first 5 months was 4.2% at entity levels, let's say I specifically know, in the Federation of Direct Taxes by 10.4%. So these are significant, this is a significant growth and talks about economic skills and economic growth in BiH. In the area of rule of law, we have made significant progress with the implementation of a number of strategies, as we can see, it may seem rather strange, but Bosnia and Herzegovina is becoming increasingly stable or perhaps the most stable area, which is why we have such a large, enormous increase in the number of tourists growing in the first 5 months and over 35%. As we participate significantly in calming and relaxing the situation in regional relations, especially with our first neighbours. And I apologize, I have already announced yesterday that after this point I will have to leave, travel to the future EU presidency, go to Bratislava, since they will be the ones who will significantly help us in our further European integrations, so I apologize for having to leave the session after this point. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2026	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have exhausted the debate on this agenda, so I would now ask the technical service to give us a statement. We will first declare on the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2015. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 delegates were in favour, 3 were against, 1 was abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I am finding a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2015 was adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusions and this is the first thing we will say about the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Is there any need for me to read it again? There isn't. I'm asking you to initiate a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 were for, 2 were against, they were abstentioned 2. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against and 1 abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integrations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. We are now voting on the conclusion of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 were for, 2 were against, 2 abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, against no one, abstention 2. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Joint Commission's conclusion on the work of the BiH Security and Security Agency has been adopted. I am sure the chairman will be the first to say to Mr Lajčak that he has stable support in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Now we're going to work at point three, Ad. 3. Request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01-02-1-1567/16 of 27.05.2016. You have received a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities by Emergency Procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening up the work on this point by giving my word to the promoter if he wants to. 23 As in the proposal, thank you. We don't have a commission here. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. So let's now move on to a statement on the proposal that this law is done by emergency procedure. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour, no one was against, and 1 delegate was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the request to consider the amendment law and amendments to the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities has been adopted by an emergency procedure. We are now going to discuss this bill by emergency procedure. There are no reports, so I'm closing the hearing and we're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities by Emergency Procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 15 were for, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, against no one, abstained no one. There is a general and entity majority, so let's see that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities has been adopted. Now we're going to work at point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act (second reading), Proposer: delegate Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1-669/16 of 24.02.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2031	Thank you. So here we have a proposal, so to delete certain provisions of the Penal Code. So, what are the provisions, I have to read it to you because by my judgment very, very important of these provisions that should be deleted. So, and it relates to Article 239 and says -- an official person in BiH institutions, entities or institutions of the Brcko District of BiH who refuses to execute the final executive decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, the Court of BiH, the House of Human Rights or the European Court, or is prevented from making such a decision, will be punished by a sentence of 6 months to 5 years. So, according to the proposal, you should delete this. With all due respect, I believe that neither the moment nor the circumstances in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in the judicial system, are such that we can afford more luxury to open up room for further disregard for the decisions of these most important institutions. And just to remind you, there are decisions of the Constitutional Court that are not carried out not only within half a year as far as the Constitutional Court has given time or other court cases, but for many years, and in any case, in 26 healthy circumstances, it means the fall of a completely legal system and order. So, regardless of the reason that this is regulated by other laws at entity level, I believe, therefore, that we need to look for ways, therefore, that the decisions of the highest court cases get power and that they are, in fact, a key catalyst and a driver to establish the final equality of citizens before the law. I think, therefore, that, in my court without one more thorough, more comprehensive debate on the state of justice and the application of decisions of ad hoc solutions that would only single out one, one dimension of this law, especially in a way that sanctions are deleted about, and also with these sanctions, we see that inequitability of decisions is extremely high, with all due respect to the promoter, I personally cannot support such...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2032	I thank Mr. Raguž. If there are no further applications for discussion, primarily given that we are discussing the Commission's opinion, I am concluding this debate and moving on to a statement. So we're pleading on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 10 were against, 5 against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, no one against, no one abstained. From Republika Srpska – there is no one, against 5, with abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, so let's move on to consultations. [[/consultation of the College.]] There is no agreement, so conditions are provided for a statement in the second round. Please initiate a statement in the second round. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present – for 10 delegates, there were 5 delegates, no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – no one, against 5, abstained no one. So there is a general majority, but there is no ethnic majority, so I find that the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not been adopted. Note, in accordance with Article 104(4) of the procedure laid down in Article (3), this Article may be repeated no more than twice after the legislative procedure has been suspended in the event of non-adopted opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. Which means that the legislative procedure under this proposal is now being suspended. And we're going to work at point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposers: Delegates from the Club of the Serbian People, Law No: 02-02-1-32/15 of 23.12.2015 and 26.01.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2035	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's why I'm not in the Constitutional Commission, probably because I'm not a lawyer and I see here that it's consistent with the Constitution, but something legal is not. What matters to me, so this is about the BiH Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court decisions are binding whatever they are, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in all countries. So, they all have constitutional courts, the only thing that turns out to be a little problem is that we don't have decisions from the Constitutional Court, some since 2008, some a little later, some a little earlier, and precisely because of the weight of these decisions, all the constitutional courts of all the EU countries, and I believe that we will all agree that the European path has no alternative, have foreign judges in its courts. For example, he works in Germany with German judges on the constitutionality of anything in Germany is decided by a gentleman from Zambia, a Francuz and a Moldavac. For example, he works in France is a Kenijac, Mađar and Englez. In Russia – Mongol, Amerikanac, Meksikanac, in America I suppose someone from Syria etc. If you see what nonsense I'm saying, this is ridiculous to you, and you don't find it funny that three characters, ask Bog where they came from, ask Bog if their diplomas are valid, decide on constitutionality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have a point that says after 5 years that we can change those three experts, who are challenged by nothing, from anyone stuck in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I invite you to make a new Constitutional Court Act, send the gentlemen finely to our houses, and we have lawyers who can take their seats and that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina decide what is in Bosnia and Herzegovina constitutionally and what is not. Because it's not that, as a country, it's not wise for us to have to go out and get our opinions, not at all, I hope that it will apply, and that we foreigners will get rid of ourselves as soon as possible except, of course, as investors in this beautiful one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2036	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2037	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Since this opinion will experience fate as before, and as a member of the Constitutional Commission and a man who has participated together with other colleagues and has widely analysed all of this that we have before us today, I need to say only two things. First and when Mr. Raguž spoke earlier about the previous law, perhaps if we had discussed this Law first and then the Criminal Law, then perhaps the meaning of why the legislators of this Law were delegates to the chairman of the Club Sredoj Nović for this Act would be understood. The key thing that is the problem here, and we all know this, is that the matter of trust in the decisions made in that Court, that a good part of the whole series of decisions has been made by revote and when decisions of the Constitutional Court become a source of law then it becomes very problematic and that is the question that is being asked here and which has been tried in this way to partially resolve. So, the key thing is trust, it can experience this today, and it can end further procedures, but we have a problem, and we're going to solve this problem together, because we don't have the same views, probably on the organisation of the state, on all the key things in this country, we can make progress every year and we can take big steps towards the EU, but we remain with our problem that no one will solve, but we have to solve it ourselves. That's the problem that comes out of this and of course, uh, I wish it were different, but unfortunately it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2038	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2039	The Honorable Chairman is a very clear fate today in this House and this Law, as well as in the previous. Niko of us are even naive to be able to believe that a "salto mortal" will happen, and by what miracle in this country we begin to think in a way that this is an independent country, that it should be better said on its own, independent of anyone. However, that is simply the case, we have experienced it, and I have personally seen even in the National Monuments Commission sitting two foreigners, who will conduct with the whole Commission whether any surplus of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina is to be declared. Well, we haven't been able to do that in spite of the launch, at least five times, to demand that foreigners, respect, respect all these great experts, but it's time to free this country from your wits and give it a chance at home. There were prosecutions and courts, don't close our eyes now so we don't say, not to appoint any prosecutors, not a judge with a biography that was offered and with what he was doing in cases and Europe laughed at such judgments. Well, by God's means, we're out of sight. Now we have in the Constitutional Court, it's not just the problem of one decision being made, we think, to the harm of the people of Republika Srpska, it's not that problem. The problem is why we don't use what the Constitution has given us, to say that we have the right to instead of those who are proposing our judges today. Is that a mistrust of your own mind? I think so. I am deeply disappointed if someone thinks, if someone thinks there are no flat experts in this country, experts, judges who can be completely sovereign, independent and completely free to express their will through the judgments they make, I am deeply in it, would be disappointed if it were not in this Bosnia and Herzegovina. 29 Of course, this is no longer a sphere of legal question, this is a sphere of policy, because if the sphere of law were a sphere of law then we would certainly be much simpler and easier to define all today and say that. One of the questions that we will have to answer, the BiH Parliament, is – Who is it who says and who can stand whether one law is in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, is it two, three people in the Constitutional Commission, who can take responsibility for themselves and say it is not in line with the legal system, but it is with the Constitution? I don't think anyone can say today that this law and these laws are not in line with the BiH Constitution. We'll now say that, yes, it's not just the Constitution, it's the constitutional system, so then we'll find a hundred and one reason. I think that if we want to deal seriously with these issues, we need to open the issue and see what is the body in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will say that one law is not in line with the legal system, I am talking about the legal system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we can't answer that, then we can question everything else. Of course, I won't take up much of my time, because I say again it's completely clear the fate of this law, and okay, it's perfectly legal, legitimate, democratic, parliamentary, however we will, we'll make it clear about it today, but what remains is a problem that we didn't want or we won't solve. Maybe this law isn't good, maybe it's not the happiest formula, maybe it's just the beginning of something else, and it would be a happy man if we had the strength to open the question and say we all want to bring this law together, but it has to look like this, like this, and be the fruit of the consensus of these people who live here. If only we wanted to, then there would be some encouragement if we wanted to go ahead, without it in vain the optimism of the Council of Ministers that next year, we will go well and Europe will embrace us exactly, and half of this country says we do not accept, we do not accept the decisions of this or that authority. And just one more sentence, the legislator when he says – that it will be the official person responsible for non-implementation of decisions. And it is a trap, who is the official person in this country who does not enforce the law, there is not one person who will not implement it, we all know where the problem of not implementing decisions and constitutional court etc. But I'm asking you, can there be any responsibility on the basis of this act that we have today? I don't think he can, and that's why it's a dead letter, but if we're ready to change, we're not satisfied, we have to implement decisions, then I think we all have to think equally, not equally, but by consensus, we're going to come up with something, let's open that question and move on to something that can be a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2040	Thank you too, Mr. Nović. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2041	Thank you very much. I thought I'd say it, but I was encouraged by the debate of Mr., the distinguished envoys Mr. Rodić and Mr. Nović, and regardless of the clear fate of this bill, I think they did a good job because they opened some questions, frankly. Um, and I want to say something because it's really important to say some things. First, I agree that the issue of trust and how the judicial system works should be preceded by the debate on criminal sanctions and the implementation of decisions, which could have structured the agenda by 30, but that is not important either. It is clear that there is a certain kind of mistrust in the functioning of judicial institutions, but it is also a question of how to address the problem. Now, how it came to pass through this bill. So this bill of law went one step or two away from what is fundamental intensities, which is to replace foreign judges. And the BiH Constitution says -- that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can after 5 years, but that does not mean that it must, too, determine a different way of electing judges of the Constitutional Court. And that's what we need to talk about, and if you want my position, I'm in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina building its own subjectivity in this most important institution, but not just in it, but in everything else. And here is the main problem and not to lie, ad hoc and al-cart opening questions as needed from certain structures, political groups in the loaning relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so other than replacing judges, which is a legitimate requirement and a legitimate right and that it moved within that I think might have come to a solution. But a step further went to seek a change in the way the Constitutional Court decides and decides, which means that the Constitution needs to be amended so that certain provisions of your proposed law can be adopted and said that they are in line with the Constitution. Which is not the same issue, but let's change the Constitution, but let's change the constitution in a way that we can change the decision in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not only when it's in the interest of an entity or one people, I'm not talking about. So I remind you why the famous April package fell, only because one amendment was not accepted to equate the way members of the constituent peoples in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So it means whether we return to the fundamental principles of how to decide in all BiH institutions, and the Constitutional Court is an important institution and if you want my vote will be for this when they come to the agenda of the amendments to the Constitution and the right to this kind of protection, but not only in the judiciary but also in the legislation in the executive government in, of course, some real categories and borders. And I also agree that until we open the principle debate whether Bosnia and Herzegovina will be an entity or an object of international relations, which is now mainly an object and this unfortunately highest price is paid by people who have found it difficult to trust in this kind of relationship of institutions, so they go, exodus, and which of course has no willingness, especially the ruling structures to.... The fundamental consensus on these most important issues will happen to us, therefore, the appearance of an ad hoc initiative, which, of course, with all due respect and even the arguments that I have here do not dispute, except that for this, this kind of law, we need to significantly change the Constitution, in order to make a different decision to the Constitutional Court and that certain things should be done and the Constitution. And we can replace judges internationally if we build a consensus and I'm in favour of maybe taking that kind of first step. But here I repeat, the main problem when the issue of trust is already open is, therefore, ad hoc approach, but a map approach to Dejton and the Constitution, and until a consensus is reached in this country on the same rights all three collectiveities and every citizen we will be spinning in this circle that Mr. Nović spoke of. I'm so that the sooner we do this, and here we see who is manifesting himself in that sense, so I think you've opened up the issues, unfortunately we should have prepared this debate wider, which involves changing the Constitution so that a law like this could pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2042	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2043	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear envoys and envoys, I reported on this subject after this vivid speech by my colleague Karamatić, but of course what Mr Nović said. I did, and I repeated 31 several times, so that finally the foreign judges leave the Constitutional Court and I repeat it again, but the order of moves should be brought in line with our Constitution. The fact is that there is no consensus on how we interpret this provision, that after the course of 5 years, foreign judges, or that a different way of choosing foreign judges, can be decided by the Parliamentary Assembly, and if we have in mind that so far the foreigners have been in many institutions from the Human Rights House, the International Ombudsman, in the BiH Court, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, I do not know when it comes to the Central Bank Governor, etc. etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina has made certain steps in this regard, and I think it is our turn to speak very seriously about this matter as well. But the fact is that this Law in the same text did not pass in the House of Representatives, and it is indeed the fact that the provisions, therefore, written in this Law do not really correspond to constitutional provisions, although there is a constitutional basis. We would simply have to change things previously in the Constitution in order to be able to sort things out in this way, that is why I have come to the call and I think that we should continue to discuss this in the way that the House of Representatives has already arranged for one conclusion, and that is to choose a committee that will work very seriously on these issues and I will certainly make my own contribution in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2044	Thank you, Mr. Čolak. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2045	I thank the chairman. The debate is open and much is said which simply requires perhaps an argument on the other hand or perhaps a whole context. Namely, the argument for and against should not be diminished in a way we will say so and we will continue. We will not say so, but we will say as it is, because no one can dispute that the constitutional arrangement of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is part of the Dayton Constitution, is not the result of an effort to stop war and to make an appropriate balance of large issues in a society that will be acceptable. Well, the results or composition of the balance are both entities and entity voting, but also the Constitutional Court as it is positioned in the BiH Constitution. So, just as the Constitutional Court is. And it's all part of a single arrangement that owns an internal balance and it's really very difficult and without huge consequences possible or impossible to take in the way of the Swedish table one question at a time, so to solve it in our interests with legitimate desires etc. Because if that were the case, it'd probably be different in Dayton. It is not only the issue of foreign judges in this law, it is, I would say, one of the smaller issues, in my opinion, far greater other issues that this Law has opened and far more risky and more dangerous issues for this arrangement and for this system that operates in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the existing agreement. It is known that in Article VI, point 2(b) of the BiH Constitution, the Court is prescribed that most of the votes of all members will adopt their labour rules. This leaves no possibility for these issues to be regulated legally or by law to be amended by the Constitution, so in order to determine a different way of working and deciding the Constitutional Court must change that member, that is, Article VI point 2.b) of the BiH Constitution. The proposal for a law contrary to this provision lays down the almost complete or complete organisation of the work of the Constitutional Court from the way in which decisions are taken, the selection of the President and the Vice-President of the Court until the provisions on the termination of the proceedings and incompatibility of the functions of the Judges. So it's clearly a provision that's 32 anti-constitutional. Even entity voting is being introduced in, among constitutional judges, an ethnic vote is being introduced and, of course, now is not the time and it is not an opportunity perhaps to imply all that is said. Furthermore, it is known that Article VI point 3. The BiH Constitution is prescribed what is all the jurisdiction of the BiH Constitutional Court and which it is reviewing. So of course there is also a question of the relationship between any provision or the law of an entity whether it is in accordance with the BiH Constitution, it is the authority of the Constitution to prescribe compliance or non-compliance. The proposal for a law did not specify that the Constitutional Court would decide whether any provision of the Constitution or the law of one entity is in accordance with this Constitution, so it is exempt from the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, which is also contrary to the Constitution. I note that the Constitutional Court had its Rules of Procedure which had been amended, then adopted the rules published in the "Official Messenger" 22/14 and 57/14 and these rules were governed by the procedure before the Constitutional Court, financial and administrative administrative independence, which is also extremely significant, and the foundations of the organisation and other issues relevant for the work of the Constitutional Court, all in accordance with, of course, the Constitution of BiH. So, given all of this in mind, this bill contains anti-constitutional decrees within itself, it is not in line with the Constitution of BiH and the Constitutional Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Peoples and of the other according to the Rules of Procedure, which was again adopted in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, which assesses compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, it is simply according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure adopted in accordance with the Constitution a matter governed by the Constitutional Commission. Is it ever someone else, some other body, will do a legitimate idea, legitimate observation, but of course it is known which procedure should take place? Therefore, these issues need to be discussed, issues need to be opened, which are of interest to anyone, any entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but of course there should be feelings for other arguments and for arguments that may also take care of this overall balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2046	Thank you too, Mr. Genjac. The word has a distinguished colleague, the first deputy chairman, Mr. Safet Softić. Here you go, Mr. Softić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2047	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have answered to say a few of my observations and look at this question, but before I do, I must say that I am really surprised by the proprietor's tenacity to discuss this issue this way, because as far as I know, such a law was in the House of Representatives and it was debated on two occasions. Here's another time we're breaking up in this House about these laws, and everyone we're discussing about these laws we know in advance and we're saying that here at the pay phone what the outcome of all this is. So, very clearly, there is no political agreement that we here in the state parliament make the Constitutional Court an NGO. I don't really know what kind of lawyers have come up with a solution to delete criminal provisions concerning non-implementation of constitutional court decisions, I don't really know who might have come up with that idea. But if we take into account the chronology of the events that took place in these two legislative acts in the parliamentary procedure, we will remember that they both came as a result or a reaction from the Republika Srpska authorities when the Constitutional Court reached that famous verdict on marking 9. On January 33rd, Republika Srpska's Day, which was challenged by the Constitutional Court for mixing certain national holidays and religious holidays that were held in one day and which in some way the Constitutional Court estimated it to offend or disrespect the rights of all citizens in Republika Srpska. As a result, therefore, we have received these two legal acts, and if I can understand that the draftr of these laws has proposed eradicating the articles concerning the participation of foreign judges in the Constitutional Court of BiH, I cannot understand to the same extent that the Proposer has proposed amendments to the Criminal Law which mean that the Constitutional Court is created by an NGO and that decisions of the Constitutional Court are practically non-binding for anyone in this country. The Constitutional Court is one of the most important institutions in this country, I think that while we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as all predecessors say before me, do not look into the eyes and say that while we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have an institution of high representative, which in some way still exists in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in some way still exists, why we are surprised that there are judges of the Constitutional Court in the Constitutional Court, why when we have an institution that can change and the Constitution can pass any law in this country, it can replace any officials. The other thing is why they don't do it, which is politics, and what is philosophy, but we have an institution that that is, and now we're doing God's work because we have judges of the Constitutional Court who are not our domestic judges and we're justifying those who are against these laws that there's not enough domestic intelligence. I think it's really an insult to those who vote against these two laws, and I don't think we should make such an argument, and I think we should kind of put an end to this today, because we all realized that these laws don't have to go through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2048	Thank you, Mr. Softić. The word is for correcting the wrong quote, dear colleague, Mr. Darko Babalj. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2049	Maybe I was wrong, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2050	Well, there's no replica here, you did well.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2051	Okay, so this means listening to distinguished colleagues there are two or three things, or two or three facts and we are aware of all these facts, which is that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not respected. This is because of the lack of respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the problems in the Constitutional Court, the Serbian People's Club has launched the Constitutional Court Act. Is it acceptable, we see from the discussion, someone is, someone is not, but what the Serbian People's Club certainly did not initiate this procedure by an emergency procedure, the Serbian People's Club did not initiate this procedure by a brief procedure, the Serbian People's Club launched the Constitutional Court Act in a regular procedure in the first reading. And what is clear to all of us, the delegates of the Serb, Bosniak and Croatian peoples, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is nothing that can be done without consensus, but what should be clear to all of us, in order to reach a consensus, we need to talk, point to bad things and good things. If we have before us today a law in our first reading, and we are aware of the situation that follows the amendment phase, and we as Srbin are aware if some things do not change in this Constitutional Court Act, which 34 may not be acceptable to the Bosniak or Croatian people, this Law will again experience the fate that they will likely experience today in the second reading. Now, please, I appeal, debate, let's give the law a chance, so that the representatives of the three constituent nations agree on something that Srbin are willing to accept to get the Constitutional Court Act tomorrow, so that, in order to be better tomorrow, here's just to say it. And as long as we act the way we act, which is that we don't give a chance, even though we have a mechanism to knock it down whenever we want, we're gonna live the way we lived yesterday and the day before today, and I'm afraid that in this future, we're gonna keep going round and round and round like we're doing until now. And it may not be all ideal, some other law of the Croatian people or Bosniak people will come, and the reaction to that law will be the same as today, for example, the reaction of one of the three constituent peoples. What's the precipice to refuse? We may all appreciate what the distinguished colleagues have suggested, we may not, but this law today if it passes in the regular procedure, in the first reading, so we are all aware that it can be brought down in the second reading in the same way as it will be brought down today. So, we and Priors refuse something and I pray that we don't behave like this in the future, I hope that the time will come when what I said will be a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2052	Mr.... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2053	Thank you, Mr. Softić. It is right that all those who say that this is not a recent controversy and the longer it lasts, the more I wonder why you, Mr. Karamatić, you, Mr. Babalj, are surprised that this story about foreigners in the Constitutional Court is not an argument, perhaps someone and you consider strangers in this country, nothing smaller foreigners are for some people than judges of the Constitutional Court of Macedonia, Moldova or the Federal Republic of Germany, with your interests being further unacceptable. You're clearly told it's from the Dayton arrangement, you signed it, so now you're dealing with it as you know, living as you can. Imagine now that I, for example, solemnly pledge to this speaker here, that none of the delegates from the Serbian people will ever vote for anything that is not strictly mentioned in the BiH Constitution. Is that the kind of situation you want? If you're going to be in such a situation then let's talk to the same guard and imagine that that was the position so far, whether there would be an army, whether there would be SIPA, whether there would be a Court of BiH, whether there would be the BiH Prosecutor's Office, whether there would be a Ombudsman, whether there would be a mountain and hill agencies, etc. etc. etc.? If someone thinks that we are taking part in the creation of a country that belongs to someone third, and not to us, this one is wrong, we make this country our own country, and we have never ruled out the right of another to say what he thinks and to propose what he thinks is best and to fight hard for it. I don't know why anyone would tell us that we don't have the right to suggest anything, especially when it stands in that Constitution that we have the right. Thus, the Constitution says that after one term of office, the first term of office, it can therefore be suggested that people who are foreigners be replaced by people who are domestically part of the Constitutional Court. And that's part of that arrangement that's often called the Swedish table here, and we took that meal from that Swedish table and suggested our solution. Is it good, it's not good, it can be fixed, it can be done, what with it, it can all be the subject of a decision whether we shoot it down or not, but there can be no proposal to question whether we have the right to do so under the Constitution and whether it is in accordance with constitutional principles when it says in the Constitution that it is allowed. That's why this opinion of the Constitutional Commission is unacceptable. 35 Now what is the absurdity of this Rules of Procedure? Completely superfluous, my colleague, Mr. Babalj suggests that we plead here one way or another. To vote against the Commission's opinion again there is no law in the procedure, that everyone votes for the Commission's opinion again there is no law in the procedure, so from that point of view all this discussion is excessive. But it's not too much of anything else, let's discuss every time there are issues that obviously have an eternal character here, and one of these topics is whether we are satisfied with the work of the BiH Constitutional Court. We can measure that with the arches of Republika Srpska, I must tell you that this decision, which has been discussed and is about Republika Srpska Day and the date of January 09th, therefore, at this stage we are still talking about, is the subject of review, so before the Constitutional Court of BiH and the request if it is not completed, it will be completed these days and directed, which means that it is claimed that the Constitutional Court has adopted the right opinion that the prejudication and influence on the Constitutional Court is a political way not to change its opinion. And that, I say, is at least for those who do not represent the side of the process, and here are the party proposing and Republika Srpska, so no one in this room should be the subject of debate. Is the Constitutional Court an NGO? Well, now that he is, he is. Because respect for his decisions refers only to those questions that were subsequently entered into his work, which is what ordinary people, their lives, property, judgments and all that was not even imagined as the subject of the Constitutional Court of BiH's work, and even here to say was not strictly defined by the Constitution itself, but it was these famous rules that the Constitutional Court gave itself the right by doing some kind of task, because he felt perhaps useless in his daily work when he saw that only a few dozen had cases from his original constitutional powers. But what's not good is not good to rush legal institutes, legal concepts and legal categories. When you say the rules about work, then we know what it is, come to work at all hours, office schedules like that, and those who get up, who sits down, until when it's hours and other things, they're rules about work, they're not rules about procedure. This country has a law on any possible court case, has a law on administrative proceedings, criminal proceedings, civil proceedings, outsider proceedings, etc. Not to mention the administrative dispute, etc. and at all levels at which the court is acting, and I don't know what the conclusion is that this should be the only judicial body in this country that writes to itself the rules of procedure, which nobody else does. I don't know what logic that has come to mind, how it came to such a conclusion when it doesn't make any sense, no criteria in this country are fulfilled neither by the legal heritage nor by the practice, or by what it says in the Constitution, but it's done. And I'll tell you why that's the problem. The problem is that they then took the right to prescribe the powers of these Rules, what they can and cannot do. And jurisdiction is clearly defined by the Constitution, and there is a whole mess that has so far been felt by every man who has dealt with the Constitutional Court, anyone who has been returned or taken away from property, anyone who has been at this stage of the proceedings for the reason that he has claimed that his human and civil rights have been violated, etc. etc. etc. And all we ask of this proposed law is to return that Constitutional Court to the constitutional justice system of BiH from which it came out. The only logic based on which this Constitutional Court came out of the BiH legal system, including the BiH Constitution, is its connection with the President of the European Court of Human Rights, where people have said if these people choose the President of the European Court of Human Rights then it is logical that they are now, in practice of the European Court of Human Rights, making their decisions and working on these principles, which they do not say anywhere, at least in the BiH Constitution, not in any positive legal act. And in order for this Constitutional Court to finally become part of this domestic legal system, he must just abandon the President of the European Court of Human Rights, with respect for that person, because it is not by any law and legal system logically, so let me say neither normally nor acceptablely from the point of view of conflict of interest that the President of a higher court in this case, in a linear procedure for the protection of human rights, the President of the Court of Human Rights, elects three judges in a lower court or a previous court, and then decides later on their, on complaints against their decisions. It would be as if you were to give the president of the district 36 court the right to appoint judges of the basic court, and then when you complain about the judgment of the basic court, that you are actually addressing the president of the district court who appointed those judges of the basic court, and therefore, the impartiality of that court is threatened, and so is independence. Because if that judge has to think about what he thinks about his decision, who will decide in the next action of appeal against that decision at the European Court of Human Rights, what is his independence, what is his, as it is said, independence?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2054	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2055	That's the point, I'm sorry if there is no will for us to fight that the BiH Constitutional Court belongs to BiH. But it's not the fault of the delegates from the Serbian people, I don't want to accuse or praise anyone else, but I know for sure it's not ours, because we've been looking for a way out of all this. Thank you, Mr. Softić. The debate is closed, and we move on to a plea. We are now voting on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 9 were for, 6 were against, and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, 1 against, there are no abstentions. From Republika Srpska – there is no one, against 5, with abstentions. There is a general majority but there is no entity majority, so I realize that Opinion has not been given consent, but we are obliged to consult in the College. [[/consultations of the College.]] There's no consent in the College. So I call for a plea in the second round. So, I see some delegates comment on how we consult, you know, we're a collective organ, if we were Jedi, we wouldn't have to talk, but like this. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 9 were in favour, against 6 were not detained. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against 1, there are no abstentions. From Republika Srpska – there is no one, against 5, with abstentions. There is a general majority but there is no entity, so I find that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is not adopted, which means that Article 104 of the position (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples which says - that the procedure of the position (3) of this member can be repeated no more than twice, which is what we have done, after which the legislative procedure is suspended in the event of non-acceptance of the opinion. 37 We move to work by point eight, Ad. 8. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2015, issue: 01,02-28-1273/16 of 28.04.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2058	I support the report, it's well done, I have one question for the people of this agency, here on page 57 is about the basic data on the BiH power system, where it is said – the total installed capacity of production facilities is 4,000 MW, 4,900, of which in hydropower plants 2,054, thermal power plants is 1,765. And my question concerns this – the installed capacity of small hydropower plants, wind solar power plants and biogas power plants is 97.41 MW and if we count on percentages compared to total, the total capacity of production facilities that means somewhere, how much would be one point and some percentage, and if we know that we should follow the European Energy Strategy by 2020, that should be about 20%. I'm interested in your assessment, do we have a strategy, do we have the will, and what are the relations in this sense in that Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, apart from these objective hydroenergy and thermo potentials, which, of course, should not be questioned but should be further afrimated, should be finally both for environmental protection and for the sake of wider competition and entrepreneurship, open the door and build one other relationship towards these capacities of small hydropower plants, wind, solar and other...? That's one question. The second question is, in fact, that Bosnia and Herzegovina, thank Bog, has high-quality electricity potentials, perhaps the largest in Southeast Europe. So, we are not just a poor country, but energy as an instrument of the future really needs to finally come to the stage, this, the strategic potential and the resources of this country to what extent, perhaps this question to which you directly and not need to answer, because it is not part of your responsibility directly – to what extent is this energy actually aimed at starting the production and development of this country, and how much is it about the relations of high-profit narrow elite groups that in some way dominate and control and have a strong impact on this market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2059	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. 38 Of course you have the first answer if you want, I'm sorry you want the word. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, yes, of course, of course, I'm asking you if you want a word? Yes, you do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2061	Mr. Chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, gentlemen of the Deputys, distinguished delegates, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I had no intention of reporting as current chairman of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, because the Commission of this House gave unanimous support to this report, however, to avoid any dilemmas and confusions, uh, you are all different profiles, education etc. so that not everyone can understand that State Regulatory Report fully, means that it does not mix installed capacity with megawatts, megawatt-hours and what renewable energy is, what is green, what the Kyoto Protocol has defined, etc. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as these countries in the EU environment, made a commitment that in 2020, according to that principle, that famous so-called. principle 20-20-20, that means 2020 will have 20% of renewable energy in total, that it will reduce 20%, let's say, CO2 and that it will make, that energy savings of 20% relative to a reference year when observed, etc. The renewable sources and their development plan are definitely defined at the state level perhaps half a year ago, when the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in co-operation with the entity energy ministries managed to take two action plans, this, entity and from Brcko and create one framework and send it to the Energy Community and say this is the Action Plan for renewable sources for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the Energy Community has led the process against us for this, as well as for other things that strategies or this or this, the one, the Energy Efficiency Plan, etc. I think that these are all issues that should not affect the political level and... not from Republika Srpska to be viewed in terms of transfer of some responsibilities, nor from the Federation, in the sense that someone decides how much they will produce and where they will build a power plant, etc. etc. But let's not be long and stick to the subject. As part of this 20% energy, this, from renewable sources, has been scanned by Bosnia and Herzegovina in '91. Or '92. which is the reference year, '90. Or '91. Your consumption from renewables, or production in hydro, was 38, 39, and you will be 2020. No matter what you have so large a share it does not appall you that you do not further develop it, you will have, you will need to have 40% 2020, 2030 will be maybe 50%. While Mađar, who doesn't have a hydropower plant and has some wind, etc. He had 13% share, he would have 18%, so about 5.5% was added to what was found and in that is the difference between these relationships and those percentages. On the other hand, you know that the EBRD was also credited with the revitalisation of Rama and the revitalisation of the Grnačavs, i.e. Trebinje I, meaning the old Grančarevo power plant in Trebinje was created in '68, but by revitalising certain elements of the power plant it gets the status that in the coming years it can produce green energy etc. So we're not behind that path and we're fighting pretty well, the only problem is complex, and that's what I was saying at the House of Representatives, this, when someone asked, seems the same to me from western Herzegovina – how we with the renewables, why we don't force it a little more intensively, etc.? Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is the case with the law of cantonal, federal, state, etc. and administrations and relationships and complexity of the system, I said, and the black devil escaped. So, we've all gotten away from municipal campaigns, when a politician has to go to state, we're creating an employment environment for renewable energy, for green, for the environment, etc. etc. To get one building permit in Bosnia and Herzegovina for one power plant less than MW you need one at least 40 to 48 months to get a building permit, so when compared to 160 countries where Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs in 135 places, etc. etc. I wouldn't have, if there was, taken up a lot of your time, if there were any additional questions I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2062	Perhaps I should ask Mr. Raguž, is he satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2063	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2064	Go ahead, Mr. Raguž. I'm asking you, excuse me, to turn the microphone on to Mr. Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2065	So, I didn't mention, I thank you first for the answer, so I didn't really mention any jurisdiction, and I get it, and I didn't want to put this in a political context at all, but simply in a philosophical and civilization context. So why did I set this up, let's say in one whole space, and that's the situation I think in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there's not a single quality way to solve the waste, we're going to take the slaughterhouse waste, which would also solve a major pollution of this country and create energy. And it's not about hydropower plants anymore, it's about the philosophy of life, and I think we need this kind of incentive that finally, and it doesn't seem so interesting, because it's a game of large numbers, hydroelectrics and thermopower plants, and okay, it can be officially said that it's green energy, I didn't even dispute it, but it's about this part of the solar system, biogas, environmental protection and waste management that can be one big impulse in this country, and that doesn't mean that someone has to take away or transfer it. The second part of the response to the use of energy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the development of this country was obviously not the subject of the answer, I do not insist, it may be believed here that we should technically accept the report, and not this debate essentially and I do not think so and I will use my right to essentially discuss these issues on one of the country's greatest potentials. And who and how it directs and affects the price of electricity and its redistribution, which I also didn't get the answer, but I'm satisfied. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2066	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. 40 With this we have exhausted the discussion on this agenda point, so now we move to a statement. Therefore, he voted on the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2015. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 12 delegates, 1 was against, and 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I am finding a report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2015. And we're going to work at point nine, Ad. Nine. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 02-09-1205/16 since 21.04.2016 You have received the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples, the Commission has examined the Information and delivered it to the House for further action. At the 31st session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.06.2016, Information was received. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission, if he wants to, of course. It's like the report. I give the word to the bearer. As in the report, thank you. Just a minute. Then I'm opening a debate. Here you go. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2068	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's what the D.A.'s interest in whether we're going to take this to the knowledge or not shows what's not there, let's just say, the chief prosecutor and I haven't seen it in this House yet, and this is teaching that story about the Constitutional Court. We don't take it all the time, they don't do or do what they want, so here I wanted to look back on a few things, and I'm going to be uncomfortable talking about all this, and I hope that at least someone in the D.A.'s office will turn red, even though I don't think that's going to change anything. Two days ago, there was a conviction at the County Court in Zenica for the murder of a girl and two gentlemen were given 40 years in prison. And now you should say that the D.A. did a good job, it's a cold case, so I'm not going to tell the details, so it's an extremely brutal murder. However, in all this it was silenced that this poor girl had twice addressed the prosecution and sought protection and had not responded and that this lady would be alive today if the prosecution had done her job, however, the prosecutor determined that even after burning around the house and the threats they had received both she and the family had no basis for launching any investigation. 41 The second case, for the Catholic Easter of this year in the village of Poljani near Kaknja, the burning house of the late Mije and Ana Šušnja, their carriage was set on fire by their neighbor, who broke into the same house several times, robbed it, knew it and the MUP, knew it and the neighbors and the prosecution of course did not react again, why, there are some returnees, there are, they are not there, let them burn it, no matter. And that's how our D.A. works, this is all in the Women's-Dobby Canton, and I'm going to get to the others. One example of last year also at the Women's and Doboj canton Arnes Delić brutally killed and robbed two disabled, disabled old vomiters also Nikola Crepulja and Marica Krstić, the crime he confessed, beaten them with vaccines, admitted that he did so, stolen things were found in his house, a bloody shirt found in him. Last year, the Court of Justice in Zenica released him with an explanation that the prosecution did not offer sufficient material evidence. The D.A. didn't even ask for an old man's DNA analysis, they found the same group as the one that was killed...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2069	Mr Karamatić, I am truly sorry, I am obliged, therefore, only to take into account the public interest in this session, I stress here, therefore, that the report we are considering is the report by the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, not the High visokog-sudski and Prosecutor's Council, as well as that cantonal prosecution, I suppose it is, just to clarify things, that the public would have in mind
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2070	Here I am, with the cantonal, so the D.A. is not doing his job. Let's move on, Honorable Chairman. You took me a minute to make up for it, except in case...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2071	I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2072	...then I'll do a replica or something. Let's move on to another topic, so let's go to war crimes, and I'll take the freshest case again, the case of the esteemed Mr. Enver Buza warlord of the Window Battalion. So, just so there's no confusion about what I'm talking about, I'll be brief. It's September 14th, '93. was a massacre, late Alija Izetbegović then ordered the late Rasim Delić, commander of the BiH Army, to investigate the details of the action and fines responsible. The commander of the Enver Buza Window Battalion claimed that there were no crimes and that the elderly were mostly armed civilians. In November '95. Mr. Sefer Halilović said in a letter to Sarajevo's Liberation that the killings of civilians in Uzdol are Enver Buza. He replied that he was only doing what Sefer Halilović told him. In the book "Lukava Strategy", signed by Mr. Rasim Delić, it says it is the most agreed Window Battalion. Now what kind of armed civilians were most likely to say very briefly, say in bed was killed Grandma Ruža Zelenika with her grandson, a 12-year-old Adriatic Jadranka, killed with a bullet and cut with knives. Ten-year-old Stjepan Zelić was killed from a gun to the head in his underwear, his 13-year-old sessions were slaughtered a little further from him. Mijo Rajić was killed in the house, and as Mr. Buza said, mostly armed civilians... Ivka Mijina's wife was butchered in bed, and the woman was immobilized nine years before that. 42 Without trying to justify anyone's crime, so crime is a crime, no matter who makes it and who makes it. I'd like someone from the D.A.'s Office to explain to me how Mr. Enver Buza got a nice blue envelope with a request to report to the court, while in the case of members of the HVO, that's with SIPA, along with pomp, with the Federal Television cameras, it's the same thing when it comes to members of the Republika Srpska Army. The prosecution should be independent, this isn't. And last in this section of the address, but not least, the political pressure the prosecution is making and scaring ministers, envoys and MPs. It's not normal for the D.A. to seek out how the MPs voted and to call the presidents of the hearing committee, that's not normal, one thing. Another thing, in this country more than selectively, I'm just telling you one example. On one portal a year ago and something came out that someone filed an anonymous application against Minister Pendeš, an anonymous application, which... and was published, scanned, means this anonymous application on one page as having that element. The prosecution filed criminal charges within 14 days. In the meantime, normally that this had failed, that the minister and the second-degree verdict had been released, but it had put pressure on her, she could not do her job. So this is about the prosecution's pressure. For example, on 02.03., I personally filed a criminal report against former Minister Slavko Matanović on 23 pages on behalf of HSS, perhaps I was wrong not to publish it on a web portal, so that Tizitelsto reacts, with 30 evidence materials, here they are, I filed it on the same day as SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office. I got a response from SIPA within 4 days that they reviewed the application, confirmed all the items and forwarded it to the D.A. and nothing further happens. So, three and a half months passed with a documented application, and there an anonymous was raised within 14 days. If it's not pressure or here's the case of Mr. Radončić, we know more or less how much was missing in this House, especially in some cases when it was an important hand from the Bosniak people, Mr. Genjac spoke of it on several occasions, as well as in the commissions, means in the Defence and Security Committee, in the Committee on Foreign and Trade Affairs. And what is it, the prosecution has filed charges against him, imagine in a case where he, I know that Mr. Radončić can't talk about this, so I'll say, in case he's not a defendant at all, so he's a witness in some procedure. And they're accusing him of having an impact on witnesses in a country that Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't recognise, so these countries aren't in our acts, we don't know that country, we don't know it, we haven't admitted it, it doesn't exist. So that's where the process is being conducted, and we're sitting in the highest legislative body because of a statement when they first let him go free to commit to political work, to strengthen the party, to the coalition, and for everything else about the case to turn to his lawyer, they're putting him back in custody. Is that pressure on the envoys and MPs? What we're talking about here, every little bit of the D.A.'s office shows up, no matter where, so they're gonna arrest Mil Dodik, so they're gonna start investigating Čović, and in the end, Bakir's gonna end up, so what we're talking about, this is what we're talking about. So, the judiciary has absolutely taken over everything in its hands, by whose dictatorship, by the dictatorship of those who put them there, we mentioned strangers a moment ago. And, Mr. Chairman, here's a little bit of a break, if you'll just give me a quick call.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2073	You've got two minutes in extensions. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2074	Thank you. So, not to be that there is no rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is now I will tell you how. A few years ago Bariša Šarić sued his neighbour for making him an asphalt road across his plot. Of course, the court ruled in favour of the late Bariša, a man died in the meantime, that he must remove this paved road, and Bariša must pay the court fees that were then about 4,000 marks. And Bariša died poor, this remote asphalt road, Kata Barišina's wife, doesn't know the woman, the old, the illiterate, stands at home and the court accounts for interest, accounts, regularly reports in court on the ad board until interest came and due to non-payments and somehow that debt has risen to 8 thousand marks. In accordance with the law of the court, Vesna Milas buys the apartment of retired Kate Šarić for 25 thousand marks. Two days ago, the institutions did their job, threw the pensioner out on the street, and a respected court act moved into an apartment that, according to all the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, bought for 25 thousand marks due to some compensation from the court that the party finally received. And that's right, so we have the rule of law regarding judicial and prosecutorial institutions, the only thing we don't have is justice. And as for justice, so will prosecutors and judges, and they will all come to that final court up there, and then it is for nothing to be called to amendments, someone will judge them, and I live for the day when we here in Parliament can tell the prosecutor you haven't done your job, and we can tell the judge you haven't done your job, we're changing you. And then this will be the land where it's worth living in, and so far we're bananas or tomatoes of the state any way you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2075	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The debate is closed. We move to a statement, we vote........................................................... [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry there's no... and now there is. The word has been given to the Honorable Vice-President, Mr. Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2077	I was saying something, uh, about this problem when we were on, we had on the agenda on the Constitutional Commission. In fact, we can't deny that the D.A. and the Court didn't do some good things, so we should look into the facts in our eyes, and it wouldn't be right to say that everything is wrong. But there are indeed such shortcomings that, above all, our judiciary, but here's a particular prosecution simply to move away from these, I'd say, irregularities that then shadows and what they've done well. In this country there are too many problems, there are too many crimes in this country, from organised, from terrorism, from unsolved war crimes, I also don't think the prosecution should be dealing with some issues that only further agree on and such a complex situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a certain way want me to admit it or not, it is perceived as a kind of pressure either on legislative, or on executive authority. I would like the prosecution to feel pressure on its back whether it is by the executive, legislative authorities, political representatives, to say what it is, other than what they say is what the media publishes, so that individual politicians, individual representatives of the executive or legislative authorities know how to criticise our judiciary, and of course the BiH Prosecutor's Office. But I think that we must be a democratic country and let no one be offended, all are subject to criticism and we here who do this work and those who work in the executive power and those who work in the judicial authority, so if there are some other pressures that should be made very clear and openly, because we are also invited to allow the prosecution to do its job well, that the Court is doing its job well. But I just want to make a reference here, so a few cases were mentioned here, uh, I don't want to repeat them, but I also want to refer to war crimes. Look, we have brought a strategy to address war crimes in 2008, there very clearly and precisely what should be the purpose of keeping the crimes unpunished, therefore impunity, to simply remove, to face our very difficult past, and in the end these are also the conditions that can lead to the country's progress both on the internal agenda and on the external agenda and several objectives set there, above all, for these most difficult and complex war crimes to be solved within 7 years, and for those less complex within 15 years. Unfortunately, that didn't happen until today. The other, I think, is just as important, if not the more important goal, is simply to balance court practice. There's also the D.A.'s office, not just the Court of Justice's case, on the charge. And that unification of judicial practice should lead to legal certainty, should lead to equality of citizens before the law, then the prosecution, the judiciary as a whole, would help on this path, if you want greater trust in the judiciary, on the path of our reconciliation, on the path of all progress. What's particularly worrying about war crimes, I have to say it very openly and publicly, and I've been doing analysis and I'd like the prosecution to do it, that the prosecution doesn't have the same criteria for every criminal, or every crime, every victim and every perpetrator. Well, that's not acceptable, I'm sorry, it's got to change, and the sooner we figure it out, the better for all of us in this country. You can't accuse someone of the same crime just by individual responsibility and others by command. Well, then let me not say, I read some of the charges the other day, believe me, it stops when you read them. It is a member of the HVO who is a member of the joint criminal enterprise, which took part in a widespread systematic attack on the civilian population of the Bosniak people and you know what, but what hurts the most and what is written in this indictment and what really cannot be justified, it writes literally there – and all in order to realise the strategy of the Croatian people in BiH. Gentlemen of the D.A.'s office, change it, and you won't do any good, and the sooner you do it, the better we'll all be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2078	Thank you too, Mr. Čolak. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Safet Softić. Here you go, Mr. Softić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2079	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few things about this point. First, I think this high House and this Information deserves to be processed by the attorney general sitting in these benches and in some way having a relevant Talker for this Information, I think today the attorney general should be here, and if not at least we got it, even if we should have some kind of apology or explanation for why he's not here. I consider that 45 a certain failure to prepare this point and process this point, and I don't think it should be repeated in the future. Secondly, I will support this report, but of course with the conclusion that the reports are mostly packed as they should look nice, we are all aware of the weaknesses and weaknesses and problems, so if you want certain expertise and competences of certain prosecutors working in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, but it is certainly not a topic for this Information, because this is a topic for the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and when there is a report on the agenda here at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, then there will be an opportunity to talk perhaps about this topic. I've called to ask the D.A.'s representative here a few questions that I'm interested in regarding this information or this report. Namely, we all know that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has been doing a certain investigation concerning the non-implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling on Sejdić and Finc and some of our colleagues have made statements on this case, etc. But at least I don't know if it's been published anywhere, I've never gotten the information -- how did this case end in the first place, and is anyone responsible for this European Court's verdict not yet being carried out? The second issue is about this point we had earlier, and it is about the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. Naima, as we have heard from what a colleague is, it seems to me that Raguž or Karamatić read, it seems to me that it is a member of 239 with regard to the criminal responsibility of those who do not implement the Constitutional Court's decisions, my question has been addressed to the Prosecutor's Office in terms of – Has the Constitutional Court ever launched an investigation into the non-implementation of any judgment of the Constitutional Court and do we have a verdict or even a final trial in this regard? We are witnesses of these days, to say, a truly brutal terror that a man cannot understand what is happening when it comes to the Bosnian language and when it comes to the educational system in another entity, in Republika Srpska and terror over children, that they cannot be entered in the name of their language as they say, these days we have also had a statement of the Constitutional Court in relation to, with their decision that the people have the right and very clearly said that every people can call their language as they think they are. And we have a feeling that after that verdict that they've intensified, here's Srebrenica and some other environments, that these activities have been intensified in terms of depriving children's rights to be entered into student books by the name of their language. My question is also addressed to this, and to the other judgments of the Constitutional Court – Is the prosecution and how much the prosecution worked on this member of Criminal Law 239 and do we have any results on this? And the third question I am interested in, namely these days, is a very public story about the census in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have had certain, certain requests from Mr Ivanic's presidency member to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council in terms of certain pressures from the Prosecutor's Office when it comes to the director of this agency. I was looking for an answer to what was really happening to Mr. Jukić's appearance on one of the televisions and I didn't understand what form he was in, and in which capacity Mr. Jukić was questioned or heard or how he talked to the tužilaštvo's Office, but it would hurt to get an answer - How and how did Jukić, Mr. Velimir Jukić, have contacts with the D.A.'s Office, to remove these dilemmas in public and in some way remove the mortgage from the legitimate decision he made as director of the agency? Here are my three questions so if you can answer now, and if not, if you're not ready for it then maybe in writing you can get it. Thank you very much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2080	Thank you, Mr. Softić. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished colleague Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2081	In Republika Srpska, Mr. Softić, no one is threatened, no one's rights are violated, and at least the children's rights and I'm saying this because the information goes completely wrong in public. Everything is done in accordance with the Constitution of Republika Srpska and they will all have the same rights regardless of which nation they belong, especially this will always apply to children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2082	I thank Mr. Radmanović. I'm making you feel dizzy, but it's also my duty to say, so it's about someone on behalf of the D.A.'s office, so now he has to announce what the D.A.'s policy is about these things and that it has something to do with the report. If you'd like to feel free to go to the pay phone. Since the specific subjects on which questions are being asked are in question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2083	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, deputies, gentlemen delegates if only, since the Chief Prosecutor
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2084	Just introduce yourself, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2085	Hasan Pleh, head of the Cabinette. Given that the chief prosecutor is officially absent, is it possible to move this point to another session so that he can secure his presence and answer questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2086	Therefore, it is not possible to move the point to get answers to these questions later in the form in which the chief prosecutor considers that it is appropriate for the esteemed colleague, the first vice-president, to be informed as one of the members of this Parliament about the topics he has cited, but not delaying the agenda point, not directly related to the Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2087	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2088	Thank you, too. 47 With this we have exhausted the debate according to this part of the agenda, and now we are going to enter into a statement. We vote on Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2015. I thank you, but please repeat the vote obviously Mr. Raguž and I are not or I don't know, I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Of the 15 delegates present – 4 were for, 9 were against, 2 were abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 4 for, 4 against, 2 abstentions. From Republika Srpska – no one is against, 5 against, and no one abstentions. There is, or there is no general majority, so I find that information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2015 has not been received. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. The current state of the European integration process: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Information on the first meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Stabilisation and Association Committee between BiH and the EU and v) Action Plan for the Implementation of the 2015 Report on BiH's Priorities (Part A, concerning the competence of BiH institutions and the Council of Ministers, and Part B, relating to the institutions of the entity, the Brcko District of BiH and the Canton of the Federation of BiH), materials of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH, Act No: 01-50-1853/15 of 17 April 2016. The Joint Commission for European Integrations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly discussed a document by the Council of Ministers on the response to the Senad Šepić parliamentary initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the Information on progress in the process of meeting the requirements of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, and decided to propose to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to include the initiative in the agendas of their meetings. The Commission adopted the following conclusion and proposed to Dom its adoption, the conclusion is: The Joint Commission for European Integration recommends to the Council of Ministers of BiH to use the methodological approach used in the present pax, i.e. when drawing up information on the implementation of the Action Plan. that information on the implementation of the Action Plan is a unique document for all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives received information at the 29th session, held on 11.05.2016. I give my word to the President of the Joint Commission for European Integration at the House of Peoples session. So, like in the report. I'll give the word to the applicant if he wants to. It's like information. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? 48 The Word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2090	Ladies and gentlemen, just a few sentences, I know that we are receiving information and that no one likes to have a broad debate about them, but I would not risk being out of the agenda and to say that this information is about the co-operation of our Committee on European Integration with the Committee on European Integration of the European Parliament. In this context, I just want to open a few questions, because I know that we will discuss this at our conclusion and upon the conclusion of the House of Representatives almost every session on our way to the EU. I want to point out here another way of thinking that we haven't had in years, namely in BiH for more than a decade we've all been yelling for the EU, we're rushing into the EU, our goal is the EU, not to consider the various opportunities of EU and our angle, but also from the EU's corner and here's a few sentences about it. It was understood that in BiH, we achieve everything by agreement, consensus, taking care of the equality not only of the peoples, but also of all others, and thus of approaching the EU. It's time we all thought about whether we made those steps, I'm sure we didn't. So here I point out the need to deal with our arrangement and our approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina in developing and improving society as a whole, and that is, in my opinion, our strategic goal, not the EU. When it comes to the EU, and when we all said more than a decade ago that we wanted to see the EU, it was not the same as it was today, and no one was discussing it, we were seeking the EU because we belong to Europe in more ways, we were seeking the EU because it was the highest level of human rights, we were seeking the EU because it was developed, it was rich. And today, are human rights in the EU the same as over a decade ago? Of course not. There is a difference between the arches of access between both the countries and the peoples and the citizens of the EU, and that is what we have to say. Today the EU is full of fears, the EU is with fences, did we say in BiH that we are for such an EU? I must say that I am not for the EU that makes fences, I am not for an EU that has a relationship as to what it had for refugees last year. So we will have to discuss all this in both the House of Peoples and the Representative and all the bodies of BiH. We will have to make an example of what we laughed at, which Mr Karamatić said, say that this is a European example, Europe thinks we are part of its undeveloped or barbaric spirit and we have to say to it, there is a developed and rich north in Europe and no undeveloped south and there are different relations in it. This is what I'm saying because in collaboration with the European Parliamentarians, we had a show of force towards BiH, people came and said that we had to change the way we decided, the one we have in the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives and otherwise in BiH that we talked about today. We have neither the right nor the will nor the right to develop BiH, nor the right to come here to give us such an opinion. And that is why we have different views, as Mr Podžić says, not only towards NATO but also towards the EU. I agree that we talk openly about this, not today, but in all the following and these situations when we have a debate on our way to the EU to say which EU we want to go towards and what we are obliged to do here. And there are alternatives, here I look back at that famous flossula of once-famous Margaret Tačer, brought to Bosnia and Herzegovina by the high representatives of Great Britain and we accept and say there's no alternative. There is always an alternative, and in particular there is an alternative if this is not the EU that we have advocated, and it is not. It will be necessary to talk more openly about what we are doing in the framework of the Committee on European Integration and Co-operation with the European Parliament here and get both support or criticism and from this body when it comes to talking to European Parliamentarians who say don't mention 49 Dejton on the European path. But here I want to mention Dejton, I think you all want to, and you're bound to. So this is a few reflections, and there are many of them we could talk about as much as we want, just as a suggestion that in future discussions on our path to the EU we are discussing this way, and that we have other views in mind as well. And this is, I must say, one Euro-realism, I don't want this to go to Euro-scepticism, but it's not impossible with this way of thinking and talking to a part of the European towards us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2091	The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2092	Thank you. Part of what I was going to say about these reports I said when asking questions to the Council of Ministers' head, we were partly given answers to the position of BiH when it comes to the process of BiH's integration into Euro-Atlantic processes, whatever any of us thinks about it, it is legitimate to have different views, but it is an inseparable process. I mean, we can think now we're going to share a European approach from NATO, but ladies and gentlemen, we all know how things are going at this global and European level, so it's absolutely an inseparable process. The other thing is that whoever responds to it both politically and otherwise, but we shouldn't be opening that doubt here, and there's absolutely no doubt, there won't be any serious excerpts if we try to break this process in a way that it formalizes, it's essentially, essentially connected. Why? Because Europe, and I welcome this initiative by Mr Radmanović, to open up some issues in the BiH Parliament when it comes to the European path of this country, regardless of the current situation in Europe, which can be seen from the aspect of the migration crisis, the security situation, the fight against terrorism, it is clear, therefore, that Europe is the most successful peace projects in recent history. And in that sense, there is really no alternative for me, there is an alternative to continuing wars in the Balkan way, cycles of wars and the deaths of these people, if that is an alternative to this peace project, I am clearly saying here there is no alternative to a peace project like the EU. The fact that Europe is currently in such a situation also shows the situation with the UK and Bregzit so-called, so we will now see what citizens, that is, of the EU, UK, will say about the EU of a democratic superior, organised, institutional dimension. It is legitimate that we too are talking about the interests of citizens, the people of this country, are they best satisfied in a way, therefore, that Bosnia and Herzegovina be a full member of the EU and that is a legitimate issue, but what is not good is not good, therefore, to sign 12 party presidents, so we put our signature on the European path, give a chance for a new EU approach, and then tomorrow... upside down at every step of the roadblocks. That's not good, that's about us, don't say that about Europeans. And I admire, frankly, the tenacity of the thread and the outstretched hand besides everything we've been doing in relation to these opportunities we've been given, not idealizing Europe. And I think it is good, therefore, to open up an argumentable debate on the advantages, weaknesses and aspects of our membership in the EU, and I repeat all of these crises, Europe has come from the Coal and Steel Community to the common Constitution, common institutions, to come to a common foreign and security policy in the interests of its citizens, and if it is something good that you can from here to Dublin or Helsinki today or anywhere have the same status, this, as a person and the same rights both in the work and in the legislative and any other respect, I would really not underestimate this situation. 50 As far as these reports are concerned we have to and we have to say that they are quite well done, but they are a little bit outdated and the question is, here's this Progress Information, is a few months, this is the second half of the year, and I think we have to say that these reports, we need to find a methodology, and that's responsibility both for the College and for us, is that once a month, is it at each session, because to find ways to have insight into the real state of the accession process of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, once, with all due respect to the honourable envoy and his political principles, Mr Radmanović, I have indeed positived the initiative to discuss this inseparably Euro-Atlantic process that we can determine as we will, but it is truly inseparable because it is a matter of security and a fundamental prerequisite for being, to get a map for that association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2093	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. With this, we've exhausted the discussion on this agenda point and we're moving on to a statement. We're voting on information and action plan. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Radmanović, you want just for a stenogram microphone, allow Mr. Radmanović so that we can, therefore, interrupt the course of the vote. I give the word to Mr. Radmanović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I'm sorry we don't have an I.D. Yes, you can now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2095	If we make a statement about information, then we take them to the knowledge. Do you suggest that we even take the proposed conclusions to the knowledge or something else, or separate that vote, I mean not the same approach, I guess, maybe I'm wrong, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2096	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. So, I will certainly give an additional explanation, the difference between these cases on which we declare ourselves is both in the proposal and in the content, the applicant Information is the Council of Ministers on the initiative of the MEP Senad Šepić, and the proposed conclusion is the Joint Commission on European Integration, and in that sense, these are, I say, different addresses and the proposals and the proposals themselves, so that we have to satisfy this principle. Or perhaps you're suggesting, what this House can adopt if, of course, it is settled as a previous question, that we together say 51 about both acts. So, as you'd like to suggest, we're going to solve this procedural issue, that's the least of the problems. Go ahead, you want a word? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And let me get this straight to Mr. Čolak's intervention. So the information is received or not received along with the action plans, and the conclusion is adopted or not adopted, yes, yes, but that's why we're voting on the Information first, and then we're going to, so now it's just a suggestion whether we're going to make a statement if you want to do it together, you don't want to. All right, thanks. Then we return, then, to the plea. We repeat the statement of the Information, therefore, with an emphasis, therefore, whether we receive it or do not receive it to the knowledge or are restrained when it comes to it. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 were in favour, no one was against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find information on progress in the process of meeting BiH's conditions on the European path, information on the first meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Stabilisation and Association Committee between BiH and the EU and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the 2015 Report on BiH's Priorities (Part A, concerning the competences of BiH institutions and the Council of Ministers, and Part B, relating to the institutions of the entity, the Brcko District of BiH and the canton of the Federation of BiH) have been taken into account. Now we move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I thank you and ask that the vote be repeated for lack of coordination in the club I belong to, the physical distance has affected. Now we might as well do non-coordination in the party, but I shouldn't say it. Please repeat the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 8 were in favour, no one was against, and 6 were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska -- no one, no one against, 5 abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity, so we're moving to consultation. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2100	A nice greeting to all present, so I have to explain a little bit because this seems a little illogical, but in the continuity of our Finance Pvojenst, he recognized the problems that would happen with such a solution to the Law as did Article 39. We've been contacted by the Communications Regulatory Agency and we've come to this conclusion and this House, and if it respects that conclusion, it probably doesn't have any effect. I would ask if we can since we already have the Council of Ministers' opinion where they..., the Council of Ministers addressed several institutions and bodies where the recommendation is ultimately said – that in this sense the exemption from the application of the provisions of Article 39. The law on salaries in BiH institutions can only be reached through the amendment of the law in question. I would if possible, with this conclusion proposed by our commission, suggest another conclusion. So, due to all these problems in the application of Article 39 and the position here and the Council of Ministers, that we reach a conclusion: the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers of BiH to draw up a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Salaries and Compensations in BiH institutions that will respect the legitimate obstacles in the work of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina's particularly significant bodies that have emerged after the last amendment of the Law, Article 39. The law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the amendment to be made in the format of the programme budget in order to be visible to all the financial effects of the work of such bodies, as well as the 53 reason for the exemption in financial terms, particularly taking into account the exemption of bodies financed from their own incomes or self-financing, the deadline for drawing up 30 days. Well, here you are, I'm giving this conclusion to adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2101	Thank you, dear colleague. So, one previous question for the Rules of Procedure, I'm just asking to be clear at this point. The conclusion proposed as an initiative on which this House is working at this point, therefore, is related to the Commission's decision on finance and the budget of the House of Nations to propose such a conclusion. Novembered conclusion, or new conclusion, is not novembered, which you are proposing, please just let me know for a stenogram, whether the Commission's proposal or your proposal is both legitimate, only that for a stenogram we have this statement of yours. Here's to the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2102	Mine, it's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-16-0.u2103	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Well, now we're moving on to a statement. First, we will vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 6 were for, 6 was against, and 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 4 for, against 3.1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There is no general majority, so I realize that this conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the proposal for a conclusion has not been adopted. I now propose that we make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion that has been made to this House, and that it be given in writing by the distinguished delegate Ljilja Zovko. Is there a need to repeat this conclusion, to read? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You've all got it. Please initiate a plea. Mr. Nović, is it peas or attitude? 54 Please repeat the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
