ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12919	I am opening the 29th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH, who regularly monitor the work of our House and media representatives. Representatives of the BiH, BiH Central Bank, Export and Credit Agency, the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institutions, the BHRT Management Board, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and BiH Communications Regulatory Agency were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić sent a notice that he was unable to attend the House session due to earlier commitments. The absence is justified, there is no excuse for the absence. So, the session is attended by 37 MPs, I understand we have a quorum for work and decision-making. In the call for a session, you are indicated that, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session and before the debate on the agenda, allow MPs to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. At the Assembly of the House of Representatives session in the extended composition, it was decided to ask parliamentary questions in the oral part of today's session, as the session began late and no television transmission was provided in accordance with Rule 167 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Members will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form at the first next session, whose maintenance is scheduled for 24.05.2016. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. At yesterday's session, the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted a conclusion to refer to the College of the Parliamentary House of Representatives for an extension of the deadline of 10 days for the submission of a report on the Amendment Law and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16, from 04.03.2016, due to the large number of amendments to the session of the Joint Commission, and in order for the proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, to be able to declare this, and point 5, we are removing from the agenda of today's session. The following are added to the agenda: point 2. Confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Communications and Transport at the Council of Ministers of BiH and Deputy Minister of Defence in the Council of Ministers of BiH, act No 01-34-1348/16, since 09.05.2016. 2 Point 4. Request for consideration Proposal for a Law on Borders and Supplements of the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure – MPs: Damir Bećirović and Mirsad Mešić, Law No: 01-02-1-1266/16, since 28.04.2016. Point 17. Proposal for a decision to appoint two members of the National Regulatory Agency for Electricity from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, act No 01,02-34-1-1362/16, since 10.05.2016. Point 20. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No: 01,02-02-1-26/15, since 28.01.2016. On the proposal of the Joint Commission for European Integrations of the Parliamentary Assembly, point 15, which now reads - The current state of the process of European integration: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Information on the first meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Obor of Stabilisation and Association between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EU and C) Action Plan for the Implementation of Priority from the 2015 Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Part A concerning the competences of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Council of Ministers of BiH and part B relating to the institutions of the entity, the Brcko District of BiH and the Canton of the Federation of BiH), material of the Directorate for European Integration, act No. 01-50-1-853/15, as of 17 April 2016 (Realisation of Initiative adopted at the 16th session, held on 27.08.2015).2015. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. An MP from Staša Košarac has applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12920	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to share one dilemma with all my fellow Members here, given the fact that we are in the previous session, means to the 29th regular session of the House of Representatives, we have downloaded, conditionally said, the agenda item – the Council of Ministers report, given the fact that he was not present as chairman of the Council of Ministers. Today, on the agenda offered under point 2 we have – Confirming the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers. I do not know if it is good that Parliament today confirms the proposal and that it is not present at the session itself, chairing the Council of Ministers. I would like to point out Article 152. The Rules of Procedure of House of Representatives, item 4, which says – After the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers read the decision on the appointment of ministers and deputies, the debate is under way. I don't think there are any conditions here, because in the hall is not the chairman of the Council of Ministers, he can't read the decision, and exactly in Article 152, point 4. is said to be acting. And I suggest you put our proposal on a plea on the second item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12921	That's a proposal to take point two off, right? Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12922	I thank the chairman. Unfortunately, esteemed counterpart Košarac selectively quotes the Rules of Procedure, so he called for only one relevant provision, however he forgot or deliberately kept another extremely relevant provision, which is Article 181. A Rules of Procedure which makes it clear – That the Council of Ministers in the House is its chairman or one or more of its members. And here not only do we have members of the Council of Ministers but we also have a deputy, given that the conditions of Article 181 have been fully met they have obtained the conditions to continue with point 2 and to confirm the appointment of ministers at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12923	Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12924	I appreciate that we have different types of interpretations, in Article 152, it is clearly spoken when the appointment of ministers is confirmed. And the member you quote is probably on other occasions. This is about confirming the appointment of ministers, this is what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12925	Correction of the wrong quote, Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12926	Thank you, Chairman. Actually, it's no correction, it's a question, you read the agenda to point 16. What about the rest, was it taken off the agenda or did I miss something? You haven't finished reading the agenda, so I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12927	I, you got the draft agenda, so I read what was different from what was in the call, and we'll have the whole, so you'll hear, I'll have to read it all. I don't want to read the same thing three times.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12928	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12929	Any further suggestions? So, we'll get to the bottom of the proposal from Staša Košarac's MPs to take point two off the agenda. Please vote. For 11, versus 23, abstention four. There is no general majority, so the proposal to take the point off the agenda has been rejected. 4 I find that the 29th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. Comments on questions received; 2. Confirmation of the appointment of the Ministers of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Deputy Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01- 34-1348/16, of 09.05.2016; 3. The request of MPs Salke Sokolović, Predrag Kozul and Borislav Bojić for the discussion of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salka Sokolovic, Predrag Kožul and Borislav Bojić by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1265/16, of 10.05.2016; 4. The request of MPs Damir Bećirović and Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law on border and amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1266/16, since 28.04.2016; 5. Proposal for a Law on humanitarian organisations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-930-1/16, from 15.04.2016 (first reading); 6. Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2015, Act No: 01/4-50-19-919/16, of 21/03/2016; 7. Reports from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015: (a) Financial Report for the year which ended 31.12.2015, (b) Annual Report from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1045/16, since 04.04.2016; 8. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2015, Act No 01,02-50-19-1068/16, of 06/04/2016; 9. Annual report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, Act No 01-12-199/16, of 21/04/2016; 10. BHRT's report on the implementation of the 2015 planning documents, the financial plan and plans of the BHR1 and BHT1 programme for 2016 and the report on the financial performance audit carried out by BHRT for 2015, the material of the Board of Directors of BHRT, act No: 01,02-29-1212/16, of 22.04.2016; 11. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2015, Act No: 01-09-1205/16, of 21.04.2016; 12. Information from the BiH Ombudsman on two arbitration proceedings under way, act No: 01,02-50-19-953/16, dated 24.03.2016 with Statement of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01-50-2-13-28/16, of 20.04.2016; 13. Information on the necessary amendments to the laws and regulations in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that would allow for a faster and more effective fight against corruption and organised crime – applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, Act No: 01-50-1-15-16/16, since 21/03/2016; 14. Information on the International Labour Organisation Recommendation, No. 203, on additional measures to effectively combat forced labour – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, Act No 01,02-37-981/16, of 25.03.2016; 15. The current state of the process of European integration: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Information on the first Stabilisation and Association Council meetings held and the Obor for Stabilisation and Association between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EU and 5 c) Action Plan for the Implementation of Prioritys from the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina (Part A concerning the competence of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Council of Ministers of BiH and Part B relating to the institutions of the entity, the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Canton of the Federation of BiH), material of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH, act No: 01-50-1-853/15, since 17.04.2016 (Realisation of the initiative adopted at the 16th session, held on 27.08.2015); 16. Proposal for a Supplement to the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights PSBiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1185/16, from 20.04.2016; 17. Decision establishing a proposal for the appointment of members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of BiH, material of the Council of Ministers, Act No 01,02- 34-1362/16, of 10.05.2016; 18. Decision on the harmonisation of mobile telephone prices and conditions for the provision of telecommunications services, delivered by: BiH Regulatory Agency, Act No: 01-29-1211/16, of 22.04.2016; 19. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 05.04.2016., which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is obliged to refer to the law on preventing riots in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the latest within 12 months of the day of adoption of this initiative at the PSBiH House of Representatives, issue 01-50-1056/16; 20. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No: 01,02-02-1-26/15, since 28.01.2016. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. Comments on questions received In accordance with Article 170. The Rules of Procedure asked MPs until this session the questions and initiatives of the House of Ministers in writing: Senad Šepić asked one question and addressed one parliamentary initiative to the Council of Ministers of BiH; Denis Bećirović addressed the initiative to the College of the Representatives' House; Damir Arnaut asked the question of BiH Minister of Civil Affairs and Foreign Affairs, asked four additional questions to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and addressed the operations of the BiH Foreign Minister and Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; Aleksandra Pandurević asked the Coordinator of the Public Administration Reform Office in BiH; Mirsad Đonlagić asked two questions from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The following answers were submitted to today's session: On the initiative of Senad Šepić, addressed by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2016, the answer to the question asked in written form at the 22nd session provided by the Council of Ministers of BiHAmir on the questions of Mirsad Đonlagić, which was asked in written form at the 26th session, the answer was delivered by the Council of Ministers; on four questions Hazim by Denis Bećirović, asked in written form at the 23rd and 26th session, the answer was delivered by the Minister's Council of Ministers; on the issue of Mensure Beganović, asked by the Ministers of BiH, on the question of Damir Arnaut, asked in Nikola Lovrinović at the 26th session; on the question of the Minister's reply to the Minister's question of the 27th meeting, the Minister for Peace of BiH, on the 27th meeting, on the issue of BiH's response to the issue of the Minister's response to the Minister's response to the 27th meeting, on 25th issue of the Minister's response to the Minister's response to the 25th meeting with the Minister of BiH's question, the Minister's response to the Minister's response to the Council, the Council, the Minister for the Minister for the 27th meeting of BiH's response to the Council, the Minister of BiH. Who wants to comment on the answers received? First is Ambassador Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12931	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So I got two answers to the Ministry of Defense's question orally, first I didn't share the answer, and then within a month, I got an answer for the last session that didn't say anything, so it wasn't answered my question. I tried to comment, he checked in, he turned left saw no minister, checked out the application, so there was no point in commenting because the ministers at that part of the session were gone. And then I'm surprised, in the materials for this session, that I was informed to withdraw that previous response in which there was no essential response, and that I had received some new answer, and about the procurement procedures at the Ministry of Defense. God Bog this is fixed, I'm not going to spread the story, on the Defence and Security Commission we had a thematic session on tender procurement, all public procurement at the Ministry of Defense, of which almost all the activities of the Ministry of Defence depend, of course we will follow through the Commission, of course, both you and all those involved in this report. So, we will follow this process of public procurement and the conclusions we adopted there, we have also informed this House of Representatives, and we will act accordingly. When asked about the distribution of indirect taxes, which I also verbally asked the Ministry of Finance, I asked for a written reply. Unfortunately, however, I am not satisfied with the answer because in answer there are no things I have asked, on the legal basis, on which the Governing Board makes three months, and sometimes these three-months are valid for six and nine months, decisions on the distribution of indirect incomes. Well, then they said it was based on the law. It is right in the law – that this distribution of indirect income has to be carried out in accordance with the end-use applications. So if the distribution is based on the law according to the end-use applications, why do they make quarterly decisions, because the indirect taxation administration has every day precise data on the total amounts of all four groups of indirect incomes? So, they have a state of account every day according to the reports and they can carry out a transfer of money to Bosnia and Herzegovina, entities and Brcko District every day. Why does the Governing Board make quarterly decisions, which sometimes because of their way of working and blocking the way they work, take six and maybe eight and nine months, determine the percentages when these percentages, of course, cannot be accurate and then question the fair, fair and legal distribution of this type of income through these percentages? Finally again, there are four groups of these revenues, that's what it says, I won't teach anyone, you can all get that in these reports, three types of these revenues are distributed in a way that delivers 3.55% through the OHR Decision to the Brcko District, which in this way brings the important thing to question, and to the Federation 63.57%, to Republika Srpska 32.88%. The fourth group of these revenues, the 10 KMs related to highways, is distributed on the principle of 59% to the Federation, 39% to Republika Srpska and 2% to the Brcko District. If it's based on final consumption, if they stick to it how do they have different percentages? Therefore, end-use and at the 7-direct tax administration there is a situation on every day and there is no need for any good or bad or mediocre or obvious method to determine how much the percentage will belong to or block the decision-making of that Management Board. I will, of course, try to get more facts on this issue and this problem, and then I will decide how I will proceed on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12932	So in consultation with the College, I limit the discussion to five minutes, it would take two minutes for these answers to parliamentary questions, comments. Senad Šepić MP,... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, no, no. It's Nikola Lovrinović. I apologize, Mr. Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12934	Thank you, Senad, for giving me a head start. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I got an answer to one question and it was about the Medicines Agency, but I don't have what, it's a situation that's resolved, it's about appointing the administration. I'd like to say something else, so I have questions I've been asking the D.A. for 10 months, but there's a point today, so I'm going to go a little bit wider about it. And I have one question that I asked the Ministry of Human Rights, and it's about a family of Filipović here in Sarajevo who's been looking for a return to the apartment for 20 years, and that's what the Ombudsman's institution and people have nothing to do with it, so Mrs Filipović goes from unloved to unloved, that's a building that's been torn down in the war, one part of those tenants are solved, the head of the Novo Sarajevo Municipality is completely obstructing it, I was talking about it at that session. As no one solves it, I expect that by the next session at least I will get an answer from the Ministry what could have been done and what was going on, and then we will see further what to do, but so I expect an answer from the Ministry, I expected in fact today, but here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12935	Thank you. Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12936	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 8 I delivered the question to the competent ministries and asked for an answer – What are the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina doing to keep, or to give a positive relationship to the best students and our talents in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I received an answer from those who do not have the original authority to deal with it most directly, it is the Federal Ministry, on the other hand, the entity ministry from Republika Srpska has jurisdiction and I thank them for their response, as well as the Brcko District. I didn't get an answer from those main ones where I think the most problems are five major centers, these are cantonal governments here in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zenica, Bihac and Mostar. I asked this question when we had that discussion in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when the best student or student of the University of Mostar could not be accepted among 200 trainees. You can imagine what kind of system we have when we have a university, give one student the best grades in four years, give him, in the end, the, uh, university rector award, etc. And then some commission in some institution doesn't recognize him that he can be admitted to 200 interns. So, something rotted inside of us and my initiative went in the direction that we..., to change our relations a little bit within our system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that simply those who prove themselves and who by their work show up for 4 years that they are the best in their area that they must have a much more honest, much, I would say, a more acceptable relationship by non-titution, that simply these people are beginning to recognize and support than bh society. So my initiative is anything in that direction to make a little bit different, I would say, relationship, one different approach, but in order to do it, we need to have information about who these people are and what the competent institutions are doing right now. That's why I would ask for that emergency once again, and after we get it all here, I will ask us to support a new initiative that would go in the direction of establishing a special fund to support young talents throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and simply show that we will know our best resources and our best potentials and capabilities in BiH, not let those people take them as has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12937	Thank you. Ambassador Mensura Beganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12938	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present once more. I asked my representative's question in writing, and it read – Why has the full implementation of the Law on Electronic Signature not been ensured in Bosnia and Herzegovina, although it has been 9 years since the entry into force of the said Law? I have to say that this answer is quite unsatisfactory, I'll bet and why, but first of all, I'll say that since 2006, when we passed this Act, countries in our neighborhood haven't even adopted the law, today they have implemented all the regulations and laws that allow electronic signature, the use of electronic signature, and we don't. Why am I unhappy? The first thing is that this answer is a big deal, on the other hand, I have to say that three years ago, in that previous meeting, it was asked a similar parliamentary question and the answers were almost identical. The second reason why I am not satisfied with this response is also the report by the Council of Ministers for the year 2015, which was in the previous session of the previous session, was taken off the agenda, where, among other things, the Law on the Amendments of the Law on electronic signatures has not been drawn up, nor has it been prepared to be released in a further procedure and the Regulation on measures and incentives for the use and protection of electronic signatures and means for the production of electronic signatures and certification systems, the Regulation on the registration of certification bodies, the Regulation on the approaching conditions for the issue of qualified electronic certificates. For these three regulations in the reply I received it writes – That activities were launched in 2015 and that, just a little while, the rules in question were made, addressed to the competent institutions and their adoption was expected. I don't know what to believe and I can assume that in some way they've been made between these two documents of differences due to non-coordination and insufficient exchange of information, but I think that once a representative or representative asks one such question, it should be complete information, relevant and that we can rely on what comes to us as an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12939	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12940	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, I asked two questions, my first question was a case that took place in February of last year, and it concerns the theft of 50,000 marks from the foreign ministry's cashier. I asked, has anything been done about this and do we have any concrete measures on this matter? Of course, the foreign ministry probably did everything on its part, submitted a request to the agency, the agency launched disciplinary proceedings, but we have no results and measures under these disciplinary procedures. It can also be seen in this answer that it is not known whether the prosecution is Canton of Sarajevo, since I assume it is competent, whether it has taken any action on this matter and it is simply unlikely that nearly a year and a half after such brutal theft of 50,000 on the road and the kidnapping of that foreign ministry treasurer no measure has been taken or at least this answer could not be read. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm very, very unhappy. The next question I asked the Ministry, i.e. civil affairs, I asked the Council of Ministers a question – on what criteria and what lists of priority projects are applied to various European and world institutions' funds, and what are these projects offered to neighbouring countries when it comes to co-operation and joint investment? I got an answer on a list of 16 projects and it really confirmed what I knew, and I have to say I'm very surprised, no infrastructure project from Tuzla Canton, so there's no one from that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm surprised that despite all these MPs sitting in this distinguished House, none of the MPs or MPs in the area remembered that they were criticising this approach and simply unacceptable fact that in one of the most human parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina with extremely poor infrastructure, we don't have infrastructure projects in the priority category. So I want to, I want to appeal to those who make up the list of these priorities that infrastructure projects must be found on that list, covering the infrastructure of Tuzla Canton, or northeastern Bosnia. I'm asking that, there's no need to explain it, but I think my application has a lot of justification, and I hope it comes to an understanding. I'm thanking you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12941	Thank you. A message from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12942	Thank you. I have no comment on the answer received, because I didn't even get an answer, namely I referred a question in writing to the BiH Justice Ministry a long time ago and I never got an answer. And also from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I received an oral response from the esteemed minister and requested it in writing, but I never received it. So I ask you as chairman to deliver an emergency to those two ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12943	Good. This concludes the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to second point, Ad. 2. Confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Deputy Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01-34-1348/16, of 09.05.2016 The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, delivered the decision on the appointment of the Minister of Communications and Transport and Deputy Defence Minister to the Council of Ministers of BiH on 9 May 2016. The Committee for Elections of the BiH Council of Ministers held a meeting, discussed all available information regarding the appointment of Ministers and Deputy Ministers of Ministers, and recommended to the Representative's House to confirm the appointment of Mr Ismir Jusk za ministar of komunikacija i transport of BiH and Mr Sead Jusić as Deputy Defence Minister. I'm opening a crack. Ambassador Asim Sarajlić first called.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12945	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrades and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests. Although this is what you said in the introduction, it is my duty as chairman of the Commission to prepare the Council of Ministers' election to say more information. So, the 5th session was held this morning, among the 12 members attended a total of 11 and, of course, on the basis of the decision addressed by the Council of Ministers Chairmans of 09.05.2016 and with, of course, the decision pursuant to Article 10.f) of the Council of Ministers Act was delivered and signed declarations whose contents and format were prescribed by the Central Election Commission, in which the appointed persons provided the information referred to in Article 10(1) of the indent (1) to (6) of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Official Confirmation of the Central Election Commission of BiH to meet the conditions laid down in Article 10c) of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Final Report on the Truth of the Information made up by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, as regards the appointment procedure. The members of the Commission are also in accordance with Article 10g) of the Law on the Council of 11 BiH ministers and members 50th and 51st. The rules of procedure of this House used the right, therefore, on the basis of Articles 50 and 51 and invited appointed persons to attend sessions and to answer questions asked. After an interview, therefore, the Commission voted as you received in the Report, so mostly votes 7 for, 3 against and 1 abstention, Mr Ismir Jusko received confirmation that he was heading towards this House for appointment, at the post of Minister of Communications and Transport, and Mr Sead Jusić with 8 votes for, 3 against and without abstentions he received a recommendation that the predstavnički of dom confirm his appointment as Deputy Minister of Defence. Of course, all votes against are also explained what you have in our Report as the Rules of Procedure imposes it and I ask this House to support this position of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12946	Thank you. A message from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12947	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I will refer to another aspect of this appointment, i.e. this proposal, and I am glad that the SBB as a Club has been given the opportunity to participate in the formation of the Council of Ministers, because when the Democratic Front was in that position we were from respected colleagues, especially from fellow Members Damir Arnaut and Mr Isaković as chairman of the Commission for Gender Equality, were hung up on a pillar of shame because, whether, only the DF then did not respect the Law on Gender Equality. Today, the SBB, and you will all remember the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as members and members of the Council of Ministers, that they then voted against creating a population and one climate in Bosnia and Herzegovina that they are voting against the Council of Ministers' calls, because for God's sake there are no women in that assembly and in that proposal of the Council of Ministers. Today, they have the opportunity to run for their members and members, or on behalf of their party, they are still running for two members of the Council of Ministers. At that time, my esteemed colleague, Damir Arnaut, replicated and said to me on several occasions, I have a stenogram from the 3rd emergency session when the appointment of the Council of Ministers was, as well as a stenogram of the 10th session of the House of Representatives, when he joined him and the esteemed chairman of the Commission for Gender Equality, who then replicated the Democratic Front as well as transferred the violation of the Law on Gender Equality and that women in Bosnia and Herzegovina were not guilty of achieving gender equality, nor of women, those who voted for such a council meeting of ministers where only two members were. Today, despite being able to improve the state of gender equality within the Council of Ministers, we will have the same situation as the two members, the distinguished Minister Borovac and Minister Pendeš, and we will have the full capacity of male supremacy, and it was obviously populism, and it was only for the public to finally know that when they respond to gender equality, that is to say, they manipulate the Law on Gender Equality by creating a climate as if they are looming for it, they are actually simply using their populist goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12948	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12949	Well, I really support this in principle everything that my colleague Maja said and if other circumstances were, I would be the first today with Maja to do this, because this is really one way, as you would say, gentlemen's, principled story to the end, and this is how everyone should behave, because we here in Parliament through some mandate, no matter how long it takes, we have a chance to show whether we are exactly the people who are important things in life. So every day here you can recognize it through these discussions and I think that in principle, I repeat, this is the right discussion I hope that we will all learn from this. But I answered for another reason, so I think that for the sake of the country and for the sake of the citizens, because why we're sitting here today is finally good that we've got this agenda point on this one, today at the vote, and it's important that we really finish this job. So, because there's a lot of work ahead of us and there's a lot of work to be done in front of these people who need to be appointed today. I didn't support the shift of colleagues and people from the DF, for the reason that, and then I thought that in one completely per se, it was all done wrong and that it wasn't politically prepared, because here, six months later, it turned out that we were right. We haven't filled the Council of Ministers in six months, and we all know how important it is for us and what we need to do and how important it is for us to have a complete Council of Ministers to do the job. So today, I'm going to support these people, I think it's about people who are responsible and it's about good people who are going to do this job well. After all, it will certainly be much better than we have at this moment when we have such visible empty holes. I call on all of us to end this procedure as soon as possible and make sure that, as I say, some kind of call on all of us to deal less with this kind of political, as it is called, playrooms, and that the more people we commit to doing business in the positions we appoint them to do work and to answer for what they are appointed for, and ultimately, that all of us here as Parliament can respond positively to the people who voted for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12950	Ambassador Salko Sokolović, I apologize, please, the correction of the wrong quote is in the meantime, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12951	Just for a little while, just to point out the fact that the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH has already had a woman in the council of ministers' assembly which is something that the Democratic Front cannot boast. And I think we can also conclude that the Democratic Front will probably never have another chance to have a woman or a man in the Council of Ministers' assembly, with a view to how catasly they proved to be there for a short time. What I would also like to point out is that today's appointment of respected Mr. Jusić to the Federal Parliament after that appointment in the Federal Parliament will be followed by a female MP instead, and thus for the first time in Bosnia and Herzegovina's history, when it comes to the big club, we will have nine out of 16 women. It is, therefore, unacceptable that Mrs Galas-Vražalica-Devila holds such puistic lessons, and not only cannot she praise their mandate when women are at the Council of Ministers but also their club in the Federal Parliament a significant helmet for the SBB, especially after today. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12952	Thank you. We now have the correction of the wrong quote, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12953	Well, I respect my colleague, Damir Arnaut, too, because he's trying to tell us all when someone is breaking the Rules of Procedure, which is the doctor of this Rules of Procedure, and even his Kolega warns when he does, so today it's totally when you have nothing to say, what you don't know about the wolf, and you're talking about sheep or something like that, today Mr Arnaut is absolutely not the topic of conversation or federal, because you mentioned the Federal Parliament is not going to be in the Federal Parliament, but in the Cantonal Assembly. So we're not talking here about the representation of women in front of parties at all levels, we're talking about the composition of the Council of Ministers. So you, on several occasions, will all my colleagues and colleagues agree, praised us here that you wrote to a senior representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but you never got an answer. So you complained about why there's this possibility in the Rules of Procedure that you're talking to Mr. Inck, and Incko isn't answering, I guess I think Incko already recognized that populism, so he didn't have anything to answer. So you had absolutely nothing to replicate, everything says in the stenogram, I made an effort to show who in Bosnia and Herzegovina abuses gender equality, so get out, believe me, it's most mentioned there through these stenograms of MPs in front of the SBB, who are advocating for gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here in the compositions when you see Klug, when you see the Council of Ministers, it's all clear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12954	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12955	Discussion, discussion, sorry I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12956	And then you will wait for Ambassador Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12957	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a few sentences, something like Mr. Šepić used to say, because I'm also one of those who didn't support it, and as a sign of "DF" being kicked out of the parliamentary majority shift of ministers, but that's when I said there's going to be plenty of more water, associated with Neretva from the space I come from, while we're completing the Council of Ministers. I think that these 6 months the Council of Ministers without full capacity has worked perhaps insufficiently, has failed to realise all the tasks and what, if anything can be positive today in this appointment and the completion of the Council of Ministers, is this capacity which, in the coming period, full capacity, which, in the coming period, should contribute to one quality in the work of the Council of Ministers and address these very important issues, and is particularly Bosnia and Herzegovina's issues on the European path. 14 What I do not agree today is that this point is not well prepared for me. We have names and names here, we don't have a candidate's biography, I think it's irresponsible to the MPs. So it's one thing to have a name and a last name, and then there's one point, so it's said, professionally prepares. Are the candidates we today need to raise our hand to have a professional qualification, are they competent, can they meet the obligations we need to make in the coming period? And on the other hand, I'm warning you once again, I don't know who was preparing whether it was the obligation of the College, the Commission, the Commission to appoint, and I think we should have got the candidate's biographies to see exactly what it was professionally prepared, what the candidates were up to now, and to assume that they would be able or will not be able to respond to the commitments they were about to make. On the other hand, here's to saying that, yes, we have this today as we do, that we should take care of this in the future, and maybe it shouldn't be bad, here while the debate is going on and we get these biographies, let's see or let someone tell us that the candidate for the minister of traffic and communication has this and that school equipment, he was in those and those positions. I don't know, the first time I've seen them in my life, it doesn't mean that you who live here in Sarajevo and see this candidate and you know his characteristics or the ability to do it now need all of us in some sense to resonate in that way. What I see on paper, what I recognize as a good reading of the text, I can bring a certain court based on it. And here I once again emphasise that it is a failure or a College or a selection and appointing commission that should have provided us with all these necessary papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12958	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12959	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must really support these views expressed by my colleague, Gasal, but we must also be aware that the Ministry of Transport is suffering enormous damage because at this time or already for 6 months we do not have a minister in charge of which very important affairs are important for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must also say that I am glad that the SBB gave up its earlier candidates because I am sure that, earlier candidate for minister, because I am sure that half of the Party's Party of Democratic Action bar would not give up its vote, because it is very difficult, we were in a very difficult situation to decide about the persons under trial in the BiH Court of Justice, so the minister himself cannot go outside of Canton Sarajevo. And I must, therefore, underline that I am glad that candidate is Ismir Jusko and congratulate him in advance, this honest and good man, which will lead this important ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12960	Ambassador Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12961	Well, this is more of a supplement. So, I suggest that we here during this debate, and I understand this, I understand this approach by fellow Sokolović, so that we adopt one, one conclusion, and that is – in the next appointments with the decision to appoint mandatory biography candidates. And so for what it's called, we solved this problem, as it's called, Salkin, and for 15 further we get one more positive practice we won't have this kind of discussion. If he can't do this, we'll take the initiative on, like, the second item of the agenda, but I think this is how we can get past this.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12962	Well, I think the commission that discussed this had biographies, I'm surprised we missed out on sharing it with the MPs, I don't see any reason not to share the biography. But there's a report from the commission and it's all done in business as prescribed. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12963	Well, my colleague Senad Šepić won't be offended or considered to be a replica, but since next time, you mentioned how some, here I will wait for Mr Sarajlić to apologize a little. In your comment earlier on the answers received or not received, you commented on how, for God's sake, someone in a commission doesn't recognize him, so our best students with awards and awards end up at the Employment Bureau because they're nobody and we need to talk about it in public. And this is the body, that is, this esteemed Dom where the wave of these conversations should be initiated and finally changed. Now we come to this, we don't have a biography, we don't know what people are, someone knows someone doesn't know, but we don't need a colleague, we don't need a fellow Šepiću, we're doing this politically, I even said it when the Democratic Front took part in the election of the Council of Ministers. You can talk about gender equality, about professional preparation, this, this, that and the closing round there sits some commission arrangements and passes people just to have one, one letter in their biography will pass, so appointed auditors, so are all possible on all, in all committees, and this Parliament is on its way to the EU and that is one fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12964	Correction of the wrong quote, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12965	In order not to be like this, and I support what the colleague said, so that we don't listen to this further, we can laugh well, so she's absolutely right, and that I will remain principled, so that we don't have this kind of debate further, let's systematically arrange it once, that with the appointment decision we have mandatory and biographies and not just these biographies for this, although that kind of problem exists and these are political arrangements, but let's make it an obligation for the institutions to deliver the biographies, not only by this, but by all other appointments, what we have here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And I repeat, if we can't pass through this conclusion today during this item of the agenda, here I will submit an initiative, perhaps at the next session that we are systematically changing our regulations. Thank you, I hope we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12966	I don't know, uh, okay. Momčilo Novaković. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12967	Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to join everyone today who thinks that the move we made six months ago was reckless and hasty. In fact, this particular six months that went by without a selected minister says that we did this job quite quickly, without seeing all the consequences. I was at the time saying that we in Republika Srpska left the issue to the Federation because of the... package, meaning both the Federation government and the Council of Ministers. I was sure it would go faster then, though, but unfortunately, it's been six months and we haven't had a minister. Certainly responsibility is clear where it is, there is no need to mention it in particular, and I am glad that the SBB colleagues have changed the proposal and created the conditions for this point to be on the agenda today, and I am sure that the proposal will be supported by this Parliament. Maybe it could have been done before, it may not have been, but it's their motives that I don't want to go into. What I particularly wanted to underline is a really large number of obligations standing before this Ministry, and I have to say a lot of problems, we're going to have one item on the agenda today, we're going to talk about BHRT, we're going to talk about the situation in public services, in the system. We have serious problems in the realization of the digitalisation process, we have serious problems when it comes to transport, I think there are so many jobs in front of this Ministry that given the minister's profession he can start looking for experts from individual areas now to get involved in this job as soon as possible, and so that we can't say we've been able to make up for it, but in any case we've at least partially compensated for the processes that have been stopped. Of course, I speak as chairman of the Transport and Connection Commission, given that we will probably have a chance to co-operate. As an MP and a member of the SDS Club, I will support the proposal of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, in the belief that all that I have just said, we will still be able to overcome it in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12968	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really have no intention of discussing for a long time, I just want to respond to two times already mentioned that the SBB has been warned and that the SBB is responsible for what we don't have for six months, in fact, the pardon isn't six months but a little over four months, Minister. I want to make our point clearly clear that the SBB is not carrying any blame, that the events that have been in the past four, four and a half months have led to this and we've discussed these things here, but we don't want to reopen the topic now that, which we need to discuss, which we're going to discuss when all this is over. So, I really, that's one thing. The other thing, what the opposition discusses and reacts like this, I understand, would not deny them the pleasure of being an opposition and of discussing anything like this in the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12970	Ambassador Hanka Vajzović. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12971	Thank you very much. In short, I want to join the objections of the respected representative Sokolović, it's about some short CV, some biographies. Knowing that we are not all from Sarajevo, and those who are certainly will hear, learn a lot of praise, a lot of nice words about the candidate who is proposed. So, surely no one will have a problem with the human human, human, but having in mind again as a member, as one of the chairmans of the Committee for Transport and Communications, what counterpart Novaković said, I think that after all this time empty potatoes are in the hands of the future minister and planes and trucks and problems in public services and BHANSA and mail, who knows what is not, railways, roads, so perhaps the ministry that has the fastest field. So much would be really important if the MPs had an essential some CV or something at the moment when they opted to know that it was a very responsible and hot function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12972	Thank you. Željko Komšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12973	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me express my personal position, so this has nothing to do with it or is in harmony with the club, nor am I a party position, this is my personal position, since I personally know the candidate for the minister, that I appreciate him as the person, the deputy future, so he will be both Minister and Deputy, and thank Bog that's the way it is, that I should wish them happiness and success in their business, and it's hard to work and each other is waiting. We've focused on the minister, but neither is the deputy's job less important, especially when we're talking about what's going to be his job at the Ministry of Defence, which is the way to NATO, so there's plenty of work to do. Of course, you will understand and I especially ask the Švab to understand me, regardless of our private relationship, I will not vote for them, I will not because I come, as the SBB gentlemen said, from the opposition, but that does not mean that I cannot personally wish you a wish and success on behalf of my, of course, and for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina above all. Who's the opposition, who's the position the people decide about, we don't decide what, who's going to be the position tomorrow, the opposition or we don't know, it depends on the people of this country. So I suggest that we no longer compete in this regard who will be more offended, who will be told the uglier words, all of this I appreciate the discussions that took place within this agenda point, it would be okay to really have the CV candidates for any function, but that's how it is. So, I ask you with a little less passion to approach this whole debate is the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a full council of ministers. And that will end, I am asking you as colleagues and colleagues in this House not to perform a play for the media and for the people, do we all already know how this vote will go? Let us wish people happiness and success in the future, and all on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12974	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12975	I've been thinking about saying a few words or not, but it's okay, it's fair, it's correct to say a few words. I know a candidate more than well, means more than well. I don't know the other candidate. I know the younger candidate very well. And a few things I'm going to say are what's not written in the biography. This is what I'm saying to Švabo or Jusko, however he wants me to be understood here, because I've been in direct contact with him and let's say that I was someone who was passing on some of his knowledge in sports, coaching this man, extremely valuable, extremely responsible, extremely responsible, extremely and extremely correct in relations. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...and I know you and... I didn't praise you here, Fehime.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12977	Come on, please, seriously.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12978	No, no, well, since I haven't talked about Fehim, we could talk about Fehima in the same way, because these 40, 50 years, you poor mother as we know her. Okay, so I'm talking about something that's working characteristics and I'm saying something that's human characteristics. About the real characteristics of the knowledge quantum needed to realize a job that he's getting into, I'm not metricated and I wouldn't talk about it. But I hope that these characteristics that are incredible tenacity, industriousness, and perseverance towards the goal he sets will make him successful, and I want him to. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12979	I'm closing the debate. And now we will comply with Article 152, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure immediately vote on confirming the appointment of the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH and Deputy Minister of Defence BiH. Please prepare for the vote. For 26 against six, abstentions six. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, proposed candidates for ministers and deputies have been confirmed. I now call on Minister Ismir Jusk and Deputy Minister Sead Jusić to make a solemn statement so they can take office.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12981	I pledge to knowingly perform my duties, 19.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12982	AND Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12983	I pledge to knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12984	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12985	AND Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12986	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12987	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12988	AND Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12989	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12990	A two-minute break to make congratulations to anyone who wants to. Please take your seats so we can continue our work. Okay, I'll remind you, I'll remind you that last time at the beginning of last session, we made a decision to change the way the laws required by the emergency procedure are discussed and we as Kolega feel that this decision to vote first on an emergency procedure, and then to open the debate on the bill itself is valid until we change that decision or if you have proposals different in order, but I think it has shown a very correct procedure to vote immediately on urgency. So we're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of MPs Salko Sokolović, Predrag Kožul and Borislav Bojić for the discussion of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Salko Sokolovic, Predrag Kozul and Borislav Bojic by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1265/16, from 10.05.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12993	On behalf of the Club, I'm asking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12994	Break 10 minutes. Please continue your work. Can you take your seats? We're leaving, we're starting work, please, I need to get ready for Banja Luka, we're leaving the bus. _________(?) We're all going there. Tell him we're all going, the whole Parliament's going there.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12997	Since it's an emergency procedure and I'd like to say a few sentences urgently. By passing the previous laws here that we have adopted, and concerning these white bread, and so on, we have reached one conclusion if you remember it well, and you have it in your files, that it will go to full amendment of the law and that a full amendment of the law will be proposed to this Parliament. We don't have it until today and we don't have a system in which, once again, here if the mandate ends today, a man goes to the street, because under the current law of the official 6 months, he doesn't have the right to work. We seem to forget that laws have been passed and the law has been passed in collapsing. Secondly, in a complete amendment to the law, if you remember again, when the Police Coordination Directorate was created, as it's already called, that sausage from the name, people went there, they crossed over to work, but they didn't cross what belongs to them. So it turns out that they are now not damaged but suspended, because what they had in the previous agency or the previous ministry or previous as receiving they no longer have it abolished because the law was not passed. And I can count it that way now. So I ask you, as a body run by this House, that conclusion that has been reached and received by the Council of Ministers, to activate it and ask the Council of Ministers to go on a full change of law otherwise we will experience these partial changes and additions at each session, 21 that are imminent. Not to mention the absurdities of jobs, it's something that's too scary, where it's where it's needed, where I'm talking, the geographer is written, so it's targeted by law and systematicization and so on. So it's necessary to make a full amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u12998	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. The request of MPs Damir Bećirović and Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law on the border and additions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1266/16, since 28.04.2016. The proposal for a law was submitted on 28 April 2016 with a request for review in accordance with Article 133 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. The legislative and legal sector 04.05.2016 submitted its opinion on the compliance of the proposal for a law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Institutions which have been found to be in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. So I'm reopening the emergency debate. Ambassador Nikola Lovirnović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13000	Just for a moment, Mr. Chairman. So this is my view not of the club, so the law has elements to work on and address the issues to which it relates, but by emergency procedure I have no option, and I would like to see it with a single amendment, so I am not at least able to support it personally. And the amendment would be approximately that these principles can apply to other solutions and to other units of local administration and self-government, but the emergency procedure does not allow it. I'll just be principled, so he's giving some opportunity to talk like some of the previous ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13001	Thank you. Prepare to vote on an emergency procedure. For 20, v. 1, abstention 18. There's a general, there's an entity majority, an emergency procedure is... _________(?) 22 [[no microphone turned on]] Shall we repeat the vote? We repeat the vote. 20 for, against 3, abstentioned 16. There's a general and entity majority, and we've adopted an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. We don't have any reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Humanitarian Organisations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-930-1/16, from 15.04.2016 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13004	Oh, thank you. In short, let me just say that, as far as SNSD is concerned, we feel that there is no legal basis for the adoption of this law. The area he treats is also in the entity's jurisdiction. The existing entity and Bosnia and Herzegovina law on associations and foundations is fully, with a complete legal framework for the registration of humanitarian organisations. So there's no point in passing another law, and in accordance with that, I don't think there's any need to and should not be supported by the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13005	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Safer Demirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13006	I thank the esteemed chairman. I welcome all present. 23 Very, very short on the Law, I think that as far as the Law itself is concerned, it's extremely well done, it's designed, it's very readable. What I would suggest, not to point out, I don't insist, but here's if you can think about it a little bit, about Article 9, where it's about humanitarian, humanitarian work in religious organizations and churches. In the present state as it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are no problems here, so this is fine all, but what we want to go to, where there is the possibility that a few people form a religious organization, a religious church or I don't know what to call it, and then under the auspices of it to do certain humanitarian work, I think this Article 9 would in some way, what I said, that you have in mind, those who have proposed this Law. So, I don't insist on it, but maybe it'd be good to think about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13007	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13008	Thank you very much. And I'm going to be very brief not to take the time since it's the first reading. First of all, I have to say that there are a lot of objections to the text of this Law, I would not now state them, given that I will do so through amendments if the law enters the amendment phase. But I will list only Article 5, which speaks to the public of the work of humanitarian organisations and which says – The work of the humanitarian organisation is public, and the way in which the public is implemented is governed by the statute. In other words, he doesn't have to be public. So he's public, but if the humanitarian organisation says otherwise, then he's not even public, because they can provide for such a form of public work that isn't actually public. This is very important when it is further compared to foreign humanitarian, or the registration of foreign humanitarian organisations. And that is why I will have in relation to this, but also with some members of the amendment to this Act in order to come to some solution that is acceptable to me, which is acceptable and which will be kept or maintained by the law in which it should be found, given that there is already a Law, I repeat what my colleague Majkić said, about associations and foundations which in some way can be the basis for this Law and give the basis for this Law, but it can also be treated as someone, some area that this Law has already been regulated. But in any case, if there is an amendment phase, I will have amendments to this Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13009	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13010	Given that it is a law that defines a place where it can be highly mixed, I believe that the adoption of laws at the level of the state of this form, not going into and out of ethnic competences because entities have their own laws, as well as cantons within the Federation, and there is a need for individual organisations of this character to be registered at the level of the state because total international co-operation does not know local character organisations but organizations that operate globally throughout the whole area. I believe that the Law is necessary and, of course, the Law will most likely, in the amendment phase 24, undergo certain amendments for the simple reason that this space must be fully regulated, i.e. more precisely defined. My colleague from the U.S.A. just mentioned the religious community, in the phase of preparing this session, the personal preparations, I've established, and now I hope that this will not affect anyone to rephrase me, that in the world, here in our environment, the religious communities are also registered. So registered, not the Law on Religious Communities, but registered by law, so the most obvious example is Germany, which at this point has registered hundreds and some religious communities, it is the right for people to register a religious community. In America, you have those that are officially active and access to resources and work, etc. Three hundred religions have already passed them. These are people's rights, so we're going to have to do this segment well for the simple reason that persuasions, beliefs of religious character are not dictated by direction but by the freedom of will of man and his choice. I know someone's gonna laugh, but if someone believes in totem, you can't ban it on them, you can't do that. And you and we... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] They do?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13012	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13013	So we need to find a way to regulate all of this and package it into the framework of one law and there are, it's not big interventions, but the intervention of the amendment will give, get results. And I believe that the law gives space to those who act globally, one who wants to register locally is registered in the Federation or Republika Srpska. These in the Federation are still... on cantons, but at the state level you have to be, because you can't tag a currency registered only in one entity, you can't know Merhamet register only in one entity, you can't register Karitas in one entity only. It's just an example when they're behind this religious community. So it is necessary, this law is necessary and we will support it and, of course, in the amendment phase, we will act on this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13014	Thank you. Since no one ever signed up for a word again, I'm closing the debate. Let's do the number six agenda, that's Ad. Six. Report on the activities of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2015, Act No: 01/4-50-19-919/16 of 21/03/2016 The report, therefore, was delivered in parliamentary procedure on 21 March 2016, by the Commission responsible for finance and the budget, delivered its Opinion on the Report on 21 April 2016. The Commission unanimously accepted the report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2015 and forwarded it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Since no one's answering my question, I'm closing the debate on item 6 of the agenda. Moving to point seven, that's Ad. Seven. Reports from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015: (a) Financial Report for the year which ended 31.12.2015, (b) Annual Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-1445/16, since 04.04.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13019	I am sorry that the President of the Commission is not here, so I guess he needed to be the first, since the Commission has given its opinion, and I will speak my mind. The total assets invested in this Institution are non-existent, these are one asset, eaten through bank guarantees issued to legal entities without solid collateral and today it is an empty agency. The most obvious example is the Dervent tube factory, which has gone, how many commercial banks that have accepted the guarantee have withdrawn funds, and the factory lacks an esteemed gentleman in this country no longer has, it operates and works outside the borders of this country, free as a bird, probably with the funds that gave him wings. But it's not just him, that I'm not talking about just one person. Therefore, it cannot be given in this way without clearly determining how, in which way, under what conditions it has come to, I will say no to the disappearance, but the devaluation of total capital, the total funds invested. And I'm just wondering if we're going to stay the only country in the region, but no longer in a region that can't support its... but with this one we can't, because it's a dubiosis. And we can't with the unilateral withdrawal of funds, we need to determine the flow, the way, who decided, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how? I'm saying this because I was, until I sat here in these benches, very much related to the economy, to business, and we have a terrible problem of banks and bank guarantees because all the banks were taken from our hands, these domestics were gone, failed, eaten, and they were sucked out of their capital. When he shows up on the date, at some point, a company from their home country from where that bank is, the domestic firm has no chance of getting a guarantee. The Bosnian-Herzegovic consortium, in which the companies from both entities were together, received the construction of the Durres port in Albania. But don't lie to the devil, Austrian companies and Bosnian firms showed up, even though they were the first to prequalify, couldn't get adequate bank guarantees and didn't continue the process, business failed. And just to point out, it's the job of the EU's definition, or Brisel, their southern port is Drač, very interesting. You know that in Qatar, the World Cup is being held in football, and after that, it's kind of like an Olympic game in a small, all Asian game, again, the consortium of Bosnian Herzegovina companies was the first, because behind that consortium was since the Munich Olympics, and that stadium that Bajern played, was built by Bosnian firms, __________________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The Olympic stadium, the Bosnian firms, the Sarajevo Olympics, and countless such buildings around the world, when bank guarantees came down. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And instead of creating someone who will hire Bosnian Herzegovina companies, we have now come to the point that they can't do anything and now they're looking for parity or I don't know what they're doing again, until this clears up.../sound warning for the MP/... I'm going to address it in writing, because this is a very complex problem, this isn't just adopting and adopting the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13021	That would be nice, really in writing, written form, actually, so let's get it. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13022	Thank you. Since I am not in the habit of speaking in code, and my colleague Backović here has said what it is, I want to take the opportunity to see here the head of the Anti-Organised Crime Department, it is about crime, it is about the "Unis Derventa“ crime and Goran Tomić, who can't be available to investigative authorities wherever he is. It is said that the victim of Goran Tomić is not only this Agency that has failed, but also the Balkan Investment Bank and the Republika Srpska Investment Development Bank, I will only tell you that all sectors in the Balkan Investment Bank gave a negative opinion on the approval of the loan, 300 million have been transferred from Republika Srpska, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what has happened is credited again. In what way, whose intervention? Goran Tomić, I don't believe that he could have done it alone if he hadn't had certain support for those who rule both the financial sector and the executive authority. So what do we got? We have one company that has led to the collapse of two banks and this Export Credit Agency. And this is business and what the BiH Prosecutor's Office is supposed to do, and I want to believe that they are professional, that Goran Tomić will not be unreachable to these bodies either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13023	Thank you. Discussion, Mr. Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13024	Since we also have a negative opinion from the Commission and to hear certain allegations that are through both the Commission and the MPs, I propose that at this point, it means that an investigative committee be formed to determine the situation in the Export Credit Agency of BiH, i.e. means that it is seen whether all legal standards in the business of the competent agency are respected. And I'd like to ask you to make this conclusion known, here I'll multiply.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13025	Thank you. The word came from the deputy, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13026	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'm entitled to tell you I couldn't believe it until I read in the documentation that a guarantee was given, a bank guarantee for a table, or a guarantee from the Agency for about 180 million marks, that's an amazing thing. Watch out for us there as a College has arrived a request to intervene that some delivery be delivered to a person through the Ministry of Justice, and then basically you see that a dispute is being held about, of about 180 million marks that were given as a guarantee for a company or for several companies, mostly by some firm from Dervente who works in the production of some pipes, it says there in that documentation. And I can't believe that something like that can happen when it comes to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's why I think we should do our part of 28 jobs, of course the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are in charge of this should take care of it, let them do their job. But I think that this proposal made by Mr. Fazlić, to adopt today a conclusion that would oblige the Kolega to prepare for the next session a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee as prescribed by this Rules of Procedure here, that we, ourselves in this investigation committee, determine what was actually happening and that we have answers to ourselves. And I think that's a good idea. You will see that later on, we will have some other points on which, where they are contained, where some reports are said, about arbitration, against Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a dispute before international arbitration worth about a billion and 300 million marks related to the Mine and Termo Power termoelektrana Ugljevik. Bosnia and Herzegovina will most likely have to pay compensation to an international firm connected to that bridge above the Sava, worth about a million marks of compensation and the question is whether it will fit there. We have to talk about this stuff here, so we open everything we can open up as Members of Parliament through our investigative committees to which we have the right, not to interfere at all in the work of law enforcement institutions, prosecutors and courts that need to do their job on these issues. It doesn't have to be and it's not the opposite of each other, these activities can be very compatible. So I support, therefore, this conclusion and I'm glad that today this kind of debate has finally opened up in the House of Representatives, because there is simply no more silence on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13027	I thank my colleague Džaferović. I don't see any more registered under this agenda, I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13028	I don't know how to...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13029	Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's Human Rights Institution for 2015, Act No 01-12-1199/16, of 21/04/2016 As competent to consider the Report, the College was designated by the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Subject matter, the competent Commission delivered its Opinion on the Report on 10.05.2016. The Commission unanimously adopted the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman Institution for 2015, and proposes to adopt the report to the House with a conclusion that reads: - Support is provided for the need to strengthen the capacity of the Ombudsman's human rights institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 29 I'm opening a debate. First reported Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13031	I thank the chairman. Well, sometimes when we talked before, or had discussions about the Annual Report of the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights, I had a few critical reviews, I would say, what was in my mind, I was still that opinion, argued. However, today I really want to express my satisfaction that after these discussions, what about the House, what about the Commission, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, that all three ombudsmen have accepted the results or conclusions of our joint discussions and what they have shown today that we have a valuable document in front of us. A document that, with everything else on the disk, is recorded, which we do not have printed whether it is in our reports and when these documents are opened and when it is seen that, as the institution has respected the recommendation to list the names and which institution that did not respect the recommendation, or in the time-limit given, it has respected that the questions referred to by the Ombudsman Institution have been answered and today we can really see that here we have on the agenda on the previous session that was left, is whether, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the Official Session, when you compare the document of these ministries that has around 170 pages and the Ombudsman's institution for human rights that passes 200 pages, we can really be satisfied. And I hope that today we will agree that there are so many recommendations in this document that will facilitate our work, i.e. give us the opportunity to initiate through these recommendations to amend and supplement or improve our work with the Council of Ministers, but also with other institutions that are competent and which are legally obliged to improve life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My praises for this report and the Democratic Front Club will support the recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13032	Thank you. Discussion, Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a longtime member of the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights, I would like to say that I consider the proposed Report to be very well done, very properly presented and all of the very large work that the representatives of the Ombudsman's Intituation have done and the fact that they did not embellish things but clearly marked a violation of human rights, they called the institutions that violate human rights. But I think that today in this House, with congratulations of course to the representatives of the Ombudsman institution, we should say, unfortunately there is no one here from the Council of Ministers really regret that when we talk about such a report that there is no bar from the Ministry of Human Rights, someone who will hear it continues to be systematically violated despite their great, huge efforts and them and us as the Commission for Human Rights are being violated rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One of the recommendations set out in Chapter V on the concept of torture and the establishment of a national preventive mechanism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has required Bosnia and Herzegovina's Opposite Protocol of the UN General Assembly since 2002, which Bosnia ratified in 2008, here the Council of Ministers respected this recommendation and in the current Proposal for a Law on Ombudsmans 30 will finally, they... actually take over this national preventive mechanism and I think that this is very important from the aspect of monitoring the rights of persons deprived of liberty, and I congratulate them on that. I'm still worried about the fact that the situation in the mental disability facility is terrible, and I dare say that it's horrible and they're so much alike and wrote. The overbooking capacity, I saw at the Drin Institution that in one room that might be size 4 with 4 I saw 25 people, a bed next to the bed. I know it seems practically impossible, but these are people with severe mental incapacitation, and I think that there are very, very, very, very few homes that are not funded properly, or these institutions, that people's rights are being violated. And I welcome that again the rapporteurs refer to it and re-produce the recommendations, and I think we must continue together as parliamentarians, as well as the Ministry of Human Rights at the state level to comply with the law-guaranteed rights of persons with disabilities. On the other hand, what worries me is the fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the signator of all international conventions for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons with disabilities continue to be violated, because, rudely, we tolerate the rude discrimination of persons with equal disability that has arisen in different ways. All international conventions say that all persons with disabilities are equal, so this disability is expressed in percentages, unfortunately in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not, otherwise treated wartime and non-wartime people. I would like to say with all due respect to the victims of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina they must, of course, be paid special compensation for participating in the war and for the injuries they received then and expressing their deep human, human, one great thanks to human beings, I must say that the person with 90% disability who is unwary and warlike character in his needs. And I think that too often we are warned from the institutions of Europe about this violation and finally Bosnia and Herzegovina must honour the documents it has ratified and signed. And finally we must stop violating the rights of persons with disabilities in the employment segment, in the education segment, in the segment of sexual and reproductive health, in the exercise of the right to motherhood and so forth. I thank you for respecting the remarks made last year on the rights of the child, I am actually congratulating you this year, I, as Vice-President of the Executive Committee of the European Parliamentary Forum for Population and Development in Brussels, now must say that this report is really much better, at least from the achievement of the rights of the child and I must say that I can always talk about that mechanism of protection that you provide when the rights of the child are in BiH. Please continue to insist on the fact that, yes, and children in Bosnia and Herzegovina should... equal right to education, equal right to health care and that such controversial phenomena as have occurred in... and several other cantons in which children due to misunderstanding in interpreting what is actually a child whether it is a person up to 15, or up to 18 completed years of life, that this... does not occur. Because children are actually the future of the world and I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina thanks to you as protectors, therefore, human rights has something to praise and we see at international conferences that there are great efforts, but of course these efforts should certainly be stepped up. And I just still want you to, if you allow me two sentences, please continue to insist on entity governments to harmonize the legislation at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in three things. First, in domestic legislation, as far as I know, the term torture is never defined, it's not included in entity criminal laws, nor in state law, I think if we mention the term of torture that it would finally have to be incorporated into domestic legislation. That's one. And two, in terms of protecting the rights of the child, please continue to insist on harmonising the final laws in the Federation entity and in the Brcko District, given that... for the adoption of five and 10 years in entities, in RS 5, and in the Federation 10. I don't know the traits of adopted children, that 31 is controlled whether a child has been told who his genetic parent is until the age of seven. Why the Family Law of the Federation continues to facilitate the adoption of foreigners, not domestic citizens and facts, is not followed by children adopted after adoption. We do not know whether they are victims of possible abuse, possible violence, I support you in your efforts to continue to defend human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am particularly concerned with the rights of the child. I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13034	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13035	Thank you. Here's what I have to say is that this Ombudsman report really works representatively, not only from the aspect of the matter it treats but also from the aspect of the number of data and documents it contains. It's certainly hard to talk about material as a whole, but there are some of us who are interested, are interested in certain segments, so I would refer to this section relating to the monitoring of the rights of prisoners, or detainees in criminal and correctional institutions. First, it is not unusual to expect a large number of ombudsmen to be addressed by convicts. As you can see, in 2015 there were 108 demands, so that's a large number, so something's happening to us in prisons, and I think this Parliament would have to see what this is all about. Here is not only on the basis of the statement, but on the basis of the Ombudsman's report, but also on our own interest in how many people may complain about different things in prisons. Here, for example. Unlike that commission I spoke about in the front, in the first session of the 28th session, the Ombudsman held 9 visits to the Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal-repair offices, the largest number of them 6 to Zenica's Penalty- jurisprudence House. The most dramatic state of demands and the highest number of visits, 6 Zenica Penalty, and we saw there that none of them were. So, it's not good that all these visits were made at the request of the convicts, so when it's already seen that one of them for various reasons is threatened with human rights, then they invite the Ombudsman to come, they have no one else to complain. Although I received many letters from the prison myself and asking for something to be done, I went there alone, only once met with representatives of the Ombudsman. But the situation in relation to that time has not changed significantly despite all the recommendations, despite all the visits. He particularly depressed the item called – the issue of security of persons deprived of liberty in Zenica, the KP Zenica and the threat of their safety from other convicts. So what happened the other day is not the first time, and it's that serious head injuries to three Serb convicts happen and that after so many recommendations, after so many visits, it's really an alarm one to see what's happening to us there. The other thing that the Ombudsman did well and we at least, at least I'm satisfied as a man, I can't imagine, I can imagine anything, but to beat someone, to break his bones and sit in a penitentiary home it really seems amazing and unreal. And I think that something must be done here and that the Ombudsman suggested that it would be avoided first, that is, in order to meet the basic conditions and European principles that convicts should be sent to criminal and correctional institutions closer to home. Not only will we prevent them from having better communication with their families, but their resociation will certainly have a much better impact when it happens, we must not be insensitive to it. So I see that the Ombudsman has proposed to the Justice Ministry, although it is not directly competent, because it is the entity's jurisdiction, but the Ombudsman has found a good one, a good term has proposed coordination with the ethnic justice ministries in order to begin to solve this 32 problem. I ask you to try to endure this problem, if anything is necessary for this House to help resolve this issue, that no one ever, ever, will happen that recently happened for the Serbian Vaskrs. So, I think this is an alarming state and I respect all the efforts that have been made so far, but we certainly have to make sure that these things don't happen again, especially in this second part to help convicts live near their families. So I thank you for this engagement in the hope that we will solve this problem and that you will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13036	Thank you. Ambassador Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13037	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I will be very brief, since I absolutely agree with the discussions so far and the Commission is having a debate on this report. It really needs to be said that the report itself has been made so that it has been very reviewed, that there is a possibility in every segment that the MPs will be thoroughly informed about each issue. What is stated in some way in the Commission itself, and this is a question of these recommendations that have virtually no answer, which is 48, those that have been realised is 103. So that is what concerns me, and I am glad that the Commission has concluded that, in co-operation with the Ombudsman, MPs in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, so when they have the opportunity to engage together with the Ombudsman, these institutions will be visited and no response to the Ombudsman's recommendation will be identified. It certainly worries because it's almost half the items that have been realized. What is also concluded on the basis of what we Ombudsman are giving as tasks, it is a matter of making special reports, that there is a need for further strengthening of the Ombudsman's institution with regard to this unanimous Commission has decided on the need to strengthen the Ombudsman's institution based on the facts that we have established on the Commission. And I am glad that the Minister is here, and that is also on the Commission, as she was present at the Commission, also, I believe she will hear it in the Council of Ministers, and I hope that we as MPs will also create conditions for this institution to be further strengthened so that she can answer all those questions that we ask to be done by the Ombudsman Institution. I sincerely believe that the law that has been supported today in the second reading will also be passed after a public debate, so that this institution will receive practically the capacity that is necessary to resolve these issues. At the end of a good one report, I believe it will serve everyone that in the recommendations that are here in the notes, that the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries, as well as the Prosecutor's Office, as well as the courts and many others, so other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, competent institutions at the level of entities, canton, Brcko District, will take a close look at the recommendations and, on the basis of these recommendations here in the Parliamentary Assembly as well as at these levels, we will receive proposals from laws and other solutions which, which the Ombudsman has recommended. I believe that it will be and I call, of course, on everything to follow closely how the competent institutions will react to recommendations that there are not a small number in this report itself. Here's so much for this report. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13038	Thank you. We're done with this point. We're going to the 10th point, Ad. Ten. BHRT's report on the implementation of the 2015 planning documents, the financial plan and plans of the BHR1 and BHT1 programme for 2016 and the report on the financial performance audit carried out by BHRT for 2015, the material of the Board of Directors of BHRT, act No: 01,02-29-1212/16, of 22.04.2016 The College has appointed as the committee responsible for transport and communications. The Commission submitted its opinion on the 2015 BHRT reports and plans for 2016 on 10/05/2016. The Commission accepted the reports and took note of the BHRT plans and forwarded them to a further parliamentary procedure. The Commission proposes to adopt the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks Bosnia and Herzegovina's Office for Audit of Institutions to, in accordance with Article 18. Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' audit law, a special audit of BHRT's operations, informs the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to form an interresor working group that would fully analyse the application of the existing Law on the Public Television System of BiH. The Interresor Working Group would consist of representatives of the Council of Ministers, Parliamentary Assembly and the Public TV System Committee of BiH. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to speed up the drafting of amendments to the Law on the Public Television System of BiH in a section relating to the RTV tax, on the basis of a proposal from the Committee of the Public TV System. I'm opening a debate. Vice-President Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13040	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, I support what our Commission has done, it's not a question to me, but I think it's all on a long stick and we need to look for ways to react resiliently. Let the Council of Ministers work, we have now also received the Minister of Transport and Communications, but I am in line with those who believe that until some laws change in Bosnia and Herzegovina that what we have as a legal solution must be fully respected. So the laws that speak about the system and which speak about broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be fully respected. I again want to draw attention here in Parliament that the laws since they were adopted have not been implemented so far and that I call for the law to be implemented. 34 And another thing until this happens, until the system stabilizes us, threatens to shut down the system, to stop the system from working, which would be devastating for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think we should look for a solution that, I say, will be temporarily in accordance with the law, with existing laws and that will allow the overall public broadcasting system in Bosnia and Herzegovina to work, until all this is done in the Commission's conclusions and what I think Parliament should adopt. According to the current Law on the Public TV System, the way to pick up a TV fee is determined by the System Committee. So far, the Committee of the Systems has made three proposals to me, at least three proposals, which to the Council of Ministers, which to the Commission, which to the Parliamentary Assembly, and I think we should look for solutions on what has come as a proposal from the Committee of the Systems. There is a reference to electricity charges, as far as I can see, is controversial when it comes to entity activity in this regard, there are references to funding funds, sustainable financing of the Public TV System. We have a regulation in the law, and that's until 30.06 this year, that the tv tax will be charged through the telecom operator. When the law was passed, it was of course all those who do the work. Later, a number of institutions, a number of organisations dealing with the business that only, at the time of the adoption of these laws, had been engaged by telecom operators and were excluded from the RTTV collection system. I think that if there is agreement within the entity to set up funding funds for the Public TV System and Services, that we should go that way, but until this happens the system and services must not be left without sustainable funding. And I think, so until the fund is set up, it is necessary to insist on charging a TV fee through Telekom operator and cable operators the way the laws, on which their activities and activities are based, define them. And I invite, therefore, all of us here at the House of Representatives to think, therefore, about this idea, we by 30.06. have to resolve these things. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13041	Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13042	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here is a set of documents, one relating to 2015 and one to 2016. So I'm going to pay more attention to these planning documents, maybe we could split up, but now it's irrelevant,...point one. So, I said to the Committee, which is true, to say so in charge of this problem, what I had to say, and since we're in a more advanced phase today, I don't want to potentiate many of the issues that are being opened here, but one of them is, so I offered a recent conclusion that I thought the System Management Board was guilty of not implementing the law, which was spoken of by Mr. Šefik Džaferović. I still think so. So we didn't accept it, but since then, the only authorized law enforcement body was the board of directors of the system. And the Board of Directors of BHRT is part of the Management Board of the System and the chairman of the Board of Directors of BHRT is also the chairman of the Management Board of the System, so that it is inseparable from one another. And now I claim that without a thorough, we have suggested one conclusion that an inter-resor group review the law and that it is seen, that it is approached by amendments and additions to the law, because it is obvious that it has not been implemented in many segments. It has not been implemented, and this has resulted in the condition that we have and which unfortunately lasts for ten years. But... I'm not sure that in the article, if I'm not mistaken, 18, but now it's... which article is, there's the possibility that the System Management Board would solve the question of billing contracts, although not with private companies, but with public institutions and businesses, and that it was mostly not, but was always looking for protection or some 35 super, super-support from those he thought he needed, so one of them was Parliament. So we changed the article 42nd and final and transitional provisions that were actually supposed to end in 2010, so something first license wasn't issued, but now that I'm not talking, there's a lot of problems. And I agree with the conclusions adopted by the Committee, and we will, and I think if that's the case, and if it's done the way we figured it out, a lot of questions will be settled. I wanted to say something else, about the planning documents, and I was saying, BHRT colleagues, BHT actually didn't accept that story at the Committee. I am sorry, so we for a decade are one of the representatives of a nation, legitimate representatives, who point out the issue of the solution of the canal in Croatian. They will get this question when it doesn't go any differently, this, probably entity repairers, because the law clearly states that, therefore, the program must be edited and broadcast in the official languages, so I would like someone to explain it. So, I asked my colleagues if it meant reading on the diary, or some show, something in Croatian and that it was... editing and broadcasting the satisfied provision of that article. I agree that even in the existing law, and that the colleagues, there was the possibility that these issues would be opened and resolved, and that colleagues, above all from BHRT, because we were relevant to them, included partly on the decades-long request of the Club of a Representative, neither do I, the representatives of the people, and that they wanted to at least convince us that it was impossible. So, I've also told the commission and the Committee that the channel and service are not the same, and I think they can explain it better. However, there was no will at all, as though we were thinking that one day we would forget it, that this simple idea would go away with us. So, first of all, it's right, it's right from our Constitution, it's right from the law, it's right and in every applicable law that's not implemented, and so are many other provisions of the law. That's why I won't be able to support it, so the HDZ Club won't be able to support the plan and the planning documents either. The BHRT gentlemen said it wasn't their job, that it was a job, here, I don't know, those who gave them guidance, and this Parliament. I think it is, I think they could have gotten involved, if anything at least to convince us we're not on the right track. These are, therefore, examples that exist in the world everywhere. I also asked them about the RTV subscription – have you ever tried for example. with state institutions as a system committee, e.g. with a pension or here with the... employer of Parliament here to make a contract to get paid immediately comes a RTV subscription. So you could do it by law, I think it's the law that makes it possible for them now. They've never tried anything, it's just been putting up with it and waiting all this time until here it comes down to nothing. In addition, for a long time, there was a fact that entity broadcasters do not fulfil their obligation, that money does not lie where it should be. And all of this together has, therefore, led to this situation. I, of course, potentiate the issue of channels in Croatian, we will not give up on them. And if, therefore, we call them again and we invite them in an appropriate way to help us, the representatives here who propagate this idea to realize it, if we don't face it very quickly, and you colleagues, with the law of someone we're going to propose. So it can't take this state to pass out, so we have that right. We expect you to understand us, none of these are divided, that's the behavior these countries have in the world, models exist, we can find our model. Nothing, we don't insist, so that channel The language does not mean that it will be biased and will not be independent. [[Employee is warned on time]] I don't agree with that, so like right now with this, Bog forgive me, depending on whether, or independent, I don't agree, we could discuss it. And unfortunately we don't have time, and with that I'm going to end up talking about the software ideas and the intentions of BHRT, because we have other problems, and here we've reached over a year of RTTV subscription and more, but we're going to work it out, and I hope that we get support, first of all from them, to get into this process specifically and maybe try to help us. If not, then this will settle the matter. Thank you. We won't support the plan. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13043	Thank you. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13044	I thank the chairman. I'll try to be as short as possible. I remain..., support, Mr. Lovrinović's proposal from one of the previous meetings relating to the removal of the Management Board. ...there's a reason for the board of directors' transfer to this report. You don't have to, dear colleagues, go away from the first page, and I'll read only one sentence, that sentence says – Unpaid revenues based on the TV fee charged by the Incas service was kept by the Croatian Federation of BiH and RTRS at 11.089.225 marks, of which the RTV of the Federation owes 2.534.556 marks and the Republika Srpska's TV amount of 8554.669 marks. It is noted that RTRS did not provide us with a report for the first 3 months of 2016 on how much it was collected on... broadcaster accounts, so that the total obligation that the broadcasters did not settle for BHRT based on a RTD tax is significantly higher than 11 million marks, but BHRT has no insight into the same, contrary to the Public TV System Act, Article 23. And what did the board of directors do? He wrote us a hook, and he sues, and he asks for compensation. Well, gentlemen, someone here because they don't meet their legal obligations, in this case the RTV Federation and RTRS have damaged 11 million marks and no one has filed criminal charges against those responsible in those two houses. I mean, I'm sorry, Mr. Prosecutors, but obviously you've got a lot of work to do today, and by every point we have, you have the elements of the crime. So somebody used 11 million marks to hurt BHRT, got their money right, put it in his pocket, and didn't. And you're not responding to that. So what do the lawyers at BHRT do? Therefore, the Management Board should resign, because the situation in which the BHRT is located is the consequence of the Management Board. But that's why some lawyers from some public service pay, please, lawyers' houses, look out... for them, lawyers' houses are being paid, and very much. To send us a payment solution here, one of them is the introduction of a tax, which is purely discrimination. Those who work and pay a subscription to the possession of the receivers, those who do not work do not pay. Somebody's gonna pay 45 marks, somebody's gonna pay for nothing. And that, by the way, means next to the many lawyers who have three services, is paid the lawyer's house that does it, to send us something like that. I think that really the Board of Directors of BHRT should resign, if for nothing, because of their unconsciousness, because of your failure to act and you have indirectly done damage to BHRT and the merits, and those of your predecessors, which BHRT is in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13045	Thank you. Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13046	Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say that we have probably been dealing with this issue most of the time, i.e. we have been constantly dealing with this issue since the Commission was formed. The ideas spoken of by his colleague Džaferović were on the Commission's agenda many times, and the debates were going in the direction he was talking about, so we don't have time for some solutions, that we need to seek an urgent solution, etc., etc. In principle, by discussing this material, the Commission proposed, you saw three conclusions that are currently going in that direction. One of these conclusions, this 37rd conclusion, requires that, on the basis of a proposal from the Committee of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, so as soon or as quickly as possible, be determined in a manner, means that it will propose legal solutions that allow it to be realised. But I also have to say that all of these proposals have arrived in the last year, and that the period of validity of the first provision means, i.e. the over-indemand, the payments by mobile operators have expired much earlier. And if there was no action of the Committee of the System, and that the System Committee, or in this case the Committee, we'll talk about the Board of Directors of BHRT, began to act when it burned to the fingernails. When the only solutions were what we've been doing so far, the extension of the duration of the Law to make our mobile operators the ones who will collect the funds. We have today in circulation two proposals from the same system,... The board of directors. One is a charge through an electricity bill and the other is a charge through these funds, i.e. the creation of funds. Now I ask you which is not valid, which is not valid and which is not valid, which is not behind which the Governing Board stands, and what the Council of Ministers will take into consideration on the basis of our third conclusion. He didn't exactly define the Committee or what he suggested, in principle, when I'm talking about these funds, where I'm a skeptic, I have to say, that it has a chance to get support. I've said it a few times in public. I can't believe someone in the election year expects the government to increase and introduce taxes. I guess in every normal country, though the question is here, it's normal for governments in the election year not to introduce taxes. And not to mention that as a principle of justice, one will pay more and the other less. Be careful, please, as if it were a tax and a contribution to, I don't know, social and health insurance or, I don't know. The second model only works in Finland. I guess we could, uh, I guess we could see the difference between us and Finland. But if I don't go in now about models, that's what we'll discuss when it's here on the agenda. And I'm also not talking about the fact that on three levels, it takes laws to get into this model, and we know how hard it is to pass laws and how much time it takes. So, with all this in mind, we are on the Commission and we have proposed these three conclusions. One, therefore, to examine what has happened so far so that we don't talk about only one Management Board today or just one management which, I must say, is least responsible, seems to me, in this structure so far, means management and management of this. And that's why we've accepted the proposal of one of our colleagues to get the Office of Audit and Special Audit, to see what it's like. The second proposal was to form an interresor working group, because every time we go into discussion on this issue we are being asked one question, and that is the realisation of existing legislation. Once we take it off the agenda and say what it is we haven't realized, which is what we can do in existing legislation and whether there's something we can change or not. And the third proposal is that this is precisely an urgent attempt to address the issue of public service financing. This is the proposal required by the Council of Ministers to propose solutions on the basis of a proposal from the Committee. This Regulation shall enter This seems to me to be the maximum the Commission could do at this point, which is these three conclusions. [[Employee is warned on time]] I think they are a good foundation, a very good foundation that these issues are being resolved, but, of course, it is not up to this Commission, this Parliament, it depends now on those to whom these conclusions are addressed, which are not only at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also on the levels of entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13047	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13048	I'm sorry, Your Honor, for having to replicate a colleague within the club who says that no government introduces a tax at the time of the election. There's no reason, Mr. Novaković, not to do that. So watch out, last night, the government informed us through the Republika Srpska TV, or prime minister, that during the SNSD government, the life span of people in Republika Srpska grew from 68 to 72 years thanks to the measures and reforms implemented by the Republika Srpska government. So please, Mr. Novaković, we have... Government and Public Service, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13049	Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13050	Thank you, Chairman. I think there are a lot of questions that we don't agree on here and there's a lot of space where you can say that. I would not comment on the position of the prime minister of Republika Srpska for one space of reason why I think I have enough space to comment on some views, and at least it is in the House of Representatives. But well, that's what he says about others. I just want to say for a little while, I'm a member of the Transport and Connection Commission and I'm not sure the Traffic and Connection Commission knows what it wants. I think that... The Transport and Communications Committee, which further complicates the situation at all within the System Committee, and I think it is incorrect to say that the System Committee has done nothing to resolve this issue. The question is, did the Board of Systems have a caller here? I'm not getting into a model. We from Republika Srpska want to define a permanent form of billing for the RTV tax, it is our interest to protect the interest of the Republika Srpska RTV. Should we repeat, I think we should pursue it and it's a fundamental approach to at least us from the SNSD. The Committee of the System has submitted a proposal, but the Committee of the System has been disabling us in the Transport Commission on different types of interpretations. The system committee submitted a proposal to the Council of Ministers. Why don't we have an answer from the Council of Ministers? I don't want to talk about the model, let's see the changes to the law, and then we'll... whether it's tax or not, but let's see it come to Parliament. Why isn't that coming to Parliament? So then slowly... we go, or you go, and you talk to the union. I don't go into BHRT's business, I'm interested in Republika Srpska's TV, which is in the system, and I want to give it a permanent form of billing for RTTV fees. I understand everyone's attitude, and someone else's, or we have to look for new models. Maybe they're some of you. I'll end up chairing very quickly, the power won't like it, but don't let us disabling people anymore. [[Employee is warned on time]] This is where Parliament disabling, don't get me wrong, this is where the most traffic commission disablings. The system board did its part of the job and submitted the proposal. When it comes to editorial policy, we have a million objections when it comes to BHRT. Excess workers, too. But when it comes to the tv tax, I was obliged to explain our position on the fee, or... the fees for the tv... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13051	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13052	Well, I must say, it's a very interesting discussion of a fellow Košarac player. First, the Commission has proven many times that it is very important for it to provide a system of funding, a stable system of funding for all public services in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Commission cannot and will not, nor Mr Košarac as a member of the Commission, provide funding for one public service without providing funding for the other two services, no matter how much he said he cared about the financing of Republika Srpska's TV, I guess when he is in opposition he won't care much about the financing of Republika Srpska's RTV. So this is the system, the system can be financed as a system. The Commission, therefore, is not correct that the Commission is disabling the public, it cannot agree. Secondly, Košarac had the opportunity as a member of the Commission to propose a solution he is talking about today, and we would consider these solutions very seriously from our colleagues, as we have considered any conclusion he has proposed to the Commission, and whether they would adopt or not, but in any case we would vote on it. Today, we have, I repeat, two proposals from the Committee of the System, two proposals in circulation. hajati someone be smart and say which of those two proposals will first put the Council of Ministers on the agenda. And I repeat, there has been a record of the board's efforts over the last year, as there has been an apparent failure this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13053	Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, at the very least, I'm not happy with Mr. Košarac's performance that the commission didn't work. So, I've been representing here for two years and I haven't... and all the time since I've been a member of this committee we've been dealing with this issue, so maybe even too much, by me. But here, so we're dealing with what I'd say is there's no special interpretation of the law. It is clear there that Parliament only determines the height of the tv fees, everything else is done by the board of directors, and we have done even what we have not described, so here we are, trying to help because people have spoken to us. What Mr. Novaković said was that members of the board of directors might have been trying because they came to the end of the story, they had to do something. I'm just going to remind you of this, so one or both of the TV services didn't respect the law. What they picked up wasn't given to BHRT, if that's what we're gonna do. And the other thing, here's my suggestion for us to deal with this issue right now. So let's put out of force the provision of an article that puts the TV subscription a year off the force and let it be financed from the budget, both BHRT and entity services. And then we'll finish the story in a year, and then we'll make a model and set up a system, so on and so forth, if that's what we're going to do. But I'm talking about joining a conversation to solve some other issues, but if we're going to, here's a proposal. So, let's go for a year moratorium on a tv subscription so let's get them out of the budget until we figure out what to do with the system, and I guess we'll figure it out then. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I don't know, ma'am. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13056	Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13057	I'm glad that there are representatives of the Committee of the System, that there is management of BHRT. We have witnessed several times, without valid arguments, that we had some matter on the agenda for which we were not authorized by the College, and it was about this problem. Here, correct me. We were always in the atmosphere, trying to do something and we didn't do anything. Correct me again. At last session of the Commission, I proposed that the Commission ask the College to insist on the Council of Ministers, due to deadlines, to find amendments to the law at the session by the end of May. Did I ask? That didn't go away. I warned about the deadlines. I'm not going into what's going to be in the law, but give the... pass, what's Parliament's jurisdiction is to determine how to pick up a tv tax, or a height, to help the system committee get out of the deadlock. That didn't go away. We got some conclusion when it's gonna happen we don't know. And again, I want to say, at the end of May, we're going to talk about this again, at the beginning of June, we're going to talk about this again, and we're not going to... to meet up with a solution to the problem. I said what is fundamental to our position when it comes to the tv tax and I'm not ashamed of it, not reducing the need and others to provide funds based on the tv tax and that other services are developing. On the contrary, let them develop. But I don't know why this kind of silent obstruction to discuss a solution in Parliament. And that's why I said that the Committee of the System, in my opinion, is not here, has no partner in Parliament. Excuse me, I have the right to an attitude. And I don't mean to talk about this anymore, of course, and other colleagues are going to be involved on this issue, but I think we need to open up a little bit of cards and tell the whole truth about what's going on here. Why does someone want to obstruct the issue of tv tax? Because some services, or the system... It's completely read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13058	I'll just let you know it's half past six. Next, correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13059	My correction to the wrong quote or perhaps a more accurate replica refers to two discussions here, first of all what we just heard from Mrs. Pandurević. I think it is scandalous that counterpart Pandurević as an MP who received votes in Republika Srpska in this way with such mistreatment and such a disfavor is referring to Republika Srpska's TV by blaming BHTV for being in squandery and mourning the BHTV's impolitement by imposing guilt on entity televisions and allegedly failing to comply with the law, as well as bringing some information out here with a smile from the public, quoting the prime minister of Republika Srpska's government. What we heard earlier is about Aleksandra Pandurević and because of her culture, that is, the unculture of communication, she will never find herself in the place where Željka is located, Mrs Željka Cvijanović. And as far as BHTV issues are concerned, it's really incomprehensible how diametrically contradictory the points of view and thinking about this problem. I remember some previous discussions, and by the way, whenever we had reports like this about BHTV one common denominator on all those reports that talk about the situation in that television house, it's that you're constantly losing it. And 41 people are wanted today on the other side why BHTV doesn't have the money and why it's in the condition it is. I will not enter into any jurisdiction or guilt at all, but I just want to remind you, that is, those who were in Parliament at that time, when several years ago the same report was, the same kind of wheezing was about the situation in BHTV, then some MPs said – so what are you doing, where is marketing, which is not collecting some of the funds from marketing. They said then, and we can't do marketing, so this job takes away our private television. So, there is an incomprehensible communication here, and there is an incomprehensible relationship and understanding of this problem, and I agree with all previous debaters that we really need to approach and see Maybe that media house will survive more or less, because it's obviously going into an ever-increasing dubiosis year after year. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13060	Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13061	First, I have to remind my colleagues that BHRT is part of the system as well as RTRS and Federal TV, that by destroying BHRT, we destroy the system. So our motive here can't be that we don't care about everything, just that we care about one emitter. Of course, if we change the law, so he's different so there's no system where they let their luck go, here I am right on that side, no problem. As far as I'm concerned, I have to tell my colleagues from the SNSD that they're very moderate, that I'm so forced by TV, I'd be much harder to defend her, and that if she didn't force them like me, they'd attack her much harder than I do. So, it is very clear here the position, but I reject any insinuation that the Commission, and anyone in the Commission, and especially me, has worked through the failure to adopt the proposal... the operation of the service. kolega don't think you've, uh, connected it well. My wish and my intention, and all my colleagues, was to solve the problem, but we don't solve the problem as a commission, the problem is solved elsewhere. We as a commission are trying to help as much as we can. Unfortunately, we are not able to solve this problem. Well, now we've reached a third conclusion, we've directed it where it's going, so we'll see how far it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13062	Dušanka Majkić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13063	So, if someone was listening on the side, you wouldn't say, "God forbid these people are working something out for me in life." Poor thing really sounds like it. And the answer could be much clearer to ask where we read one, from the beginning of the letter, or the text provided by BHRT and which tells us – the total losses of the RTV system from the decline of the number of subscribers and the unpaid TV fee for the period 2009-2015 are 140 million marks. That's the amount that, there's no way to solve. Forming a commission won't help, and we always do, this Parliament always works that way when it doesn't know how to solve something then form a commission that also makes worse, and then we adopt it, that's the shame of ourselves. There's a few things to say here, and I've just been trying to get some data that's a big picture of what's going on in this whole thing. Take a look at the aspect of the number of subscribers – Federation of BiH relationship 2009-2015. Through a telecom operator in the Federation of BiH in 2009, there were 634.164 subscribers, 42 who paid taxes, and 2015. - 265,566. Inkaso service to the Federation in 2009 was only 18,605 to make 2015 126,000. As this logout falls out and is deleted from the subscription, these tv subscriptions are included in the... service. And now, watch this, the number of subscribers from the Federation since 2009 is missing in the record of 260,000 subscribers, which is at a monthly level of 2 million marks. Where's the money? There they are. And there are no subscribers, where our subscribers are. We know where the subscribers are, but I ask them so loudly. Republika Srpska's 2009 telecom operator had 313 000 subscribers who paid RTB and 2015. - 141 thousand. Inkaso Service 2009. Republika Srpska had 31 thousand and 2015. - 173. In total, it means 315 thousand in 2015 and in 2009 it had 345 thousand. Now, what else is important? Who collects the subscription? So it's collected by tv services. Imagine these chambers, someone else is providing you with all the funds, you don't even have a record... There had to be some method that BHRT, which takes 50% and emitters at 25, had to be found... keeping records to help make this subscription, way in..., have its own boards to solve it. But check this out, BHRT's gone for a long time, I don't know if she's ever had a 24-hour broadcast program. I read in one place that there were 350 employees and I know the time when she was 860, and I read in the report that she had 147. It's really hard, I don't know how many more employees there are on tv. And now what's unusual about it. Republika Srpska's TV has 120 employees, two 24-hour broadcast programmes, at the annual RTRS level produce nearly 10,000 hours of their own programme with nearly three times fewer people than BHRT. Why do BHRT have so many people? We've been waiting for a corporation, which is really a question of when it's gonna happen and if it's ever gonna happen. Representatives of the Croatian people say – it does not reflect our national interests, Republika Srpska could say – well, there is a Cyrillic, and as far as the programmes and interests of Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina are concerned, so we could never say that this is something that could satisfy the passing... Well, the law itself was passed, like a Lex specialis passed, and we, we know how much we protested. He can't survive like this, he can't stand it, he can't make 140 million, he can't, he doesn't have that power to get rid of it. What BHRT didn't write,...also interesting, that's how much everyone owes, it's for unbelief. Distribution of marketing Here I am at the end, the distribution of marketing takes place by the principle of 50% of BHRT and 25% of these two public broadcasters. [[Employee is warned on time]] Why BHRT's management calls for legality when it comes to the distribution of RTT fees, and it is not called for when it comes to the distribution of marketing, it is every Sunday. There's a bunch of things that should be done. When it comes to the plan, it's so unrealistic. according to needs, and not as much as we are able to raise money, it says that nothing on that plan will be done, because it is unrealistic, there are no real sources of funding. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13064	Predrag Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13065	Well, here, I hate to end up picking up, but some things... try or say even some corrections to the wrong allegations within this debate. I would like to correct, in some ways, some of the figures that my colleague Pandurević just said about the debts of the entity's RTS services to BHRT. From those figures, I would say that the Federal Television is a beautiful small debtor, at the subscription significantly less debt than RTRS, but when you add up that second item of Federal Television's total debt of Fede4ral television to BHRT is over 16 million marks. 13.5 million marks, or even more, refer to a classical debt-religious relationship, thus providing services that 43 BHRT provides to federal television. Well, when someone owes you 500 thousand marks for services, well a million, two, Tidd, you stop providing him services. That's logic. And whoever you hurt headlongly stop one of the two public TV services, which are seen in the Federation area, stop providing services, so he stops a little bit, because he doesn't pay what he should pay. I really believe that space existed. I'm going to touch these two billing proposals or future charges for RTD. The story with electricity or watches has the same flaw as the one with the BH telecoms. By the time you lay down that system, we'll introduce private electricity dealers, probably, so we'll have the same problem. The talk with the media tax is a huge misunderstanding with our reform agenda that we brought here, and we would have to take care of that. It clearly states there that we will not introduce new direct taxes, but rather reduce existing taxes and that we will not introduce parafiscal new charges at all, but also reduce existing ones. This media tax is somewhere between the two, whether it's a direct tax, whether it's a parafiscal imposition. So, BHRT's problem, I will now be talking only about him here, not about the other two public broadcasters, is systematic, legal and it is not just a question of Hrvat, channels in Croatian, or programmes in Croatian, or fulfilling those two articles of the law that speaks of it, although it is a question of all questions to me. It's also a matter of a number of other provisions. In response, the resolution ministry made it clear to me, when I asked why the provisions of the corporate law do not apply, so I was clearly told that it depends on the well-being of entity public broadcasters. We have passed a law whose application depends on someone's goodwill. It is very clear that the law in those provisions is not right. So it is a systematic issue that needs to be resolved systematically within all these dissatisfactions that exist, and I also have a very important Croatian dissatisfaction. And I am convinced that in the past 10 or more years this issue could have been legally resolved that there was minimal goodwill. I am convinced that this issue can also be resolved in the future relatively short time if there is a minimum goodwill. I'm personally interested in BHRT working and living. Of the three existing public broadcasters, it seems to me that he is the most objective, most balanced, and I prefer to watch him. And transitional funding solutions must be offered by us who are extremely unhappy with the existing law. I also see them in marketing, i.e. in RAC decisions that are easy to make, minutes marketing at the moment, when private broadcasters profit from this financial and any other disorder within public broadcasters, they can also redistribute differently. And what my colleague Lovrinović mentioned may have been a partial solution. In order for these emitters to live, but the systematic solution is what we have to build. Some of the provisions of the Transport Committee are being traced, perhaps to these systemic solutions. And that's what we need to build, but at the same time these relationships that are debt-religious, these relationships that are business relations within these televisions, they can't, nor is it the work of this Parliament to edit, it's the work of the Management Board, the Management Board, etc. And we also have to make it clear – within the existing law there are legal mathematical solutions for the issue of funding, there are no quality legal and political solutions within that law and that is why it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13066	Ambassador Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13067	Well, I don't know what to say without causing controversy or debate, because it's such a subject, it's very sensitive, but I'll try as a member of the commission and as an MP to stick to the agenda, because it's a report from BHRT for 2015, so both financial plans and other plans, 44 programming, BHRT. We had a debate on both the commission and what I can see and what my personal position is that BHRT, in addition to all these financial problems it has, in addition to all the problems in not implementing the existing law, besides everything that my colleague Pandurevićka has brought out here, and what we see from the report of the debt of entity televisions to BHRT, and all the problems, has nevertheless implemented her program and that we need that television as part of the system. So these three emitters, we need three services and they make up one whole. So I was on the committee, and I was the pronoun of that conclusion about the interresor group, but not to do anything, but to do something. Although I was a proposer long ago, until that proposal saw its light so far we could have it. This proposal was meant to allow some, since some law, solution that we need to define not to be implemented again. So I can also say that I support the President of the Commission that the commission used to step out of its jurisdiction in order to help BHRT. So, so, uh, I can say that the Party of Democratic Action will support this Financial Report, and these plans, financial plans, programming plans, we've heard clearly from the people on the committee that these are framework plans, the fact is that... and they will depend on the realisation, first of all, of the financial plan. I expect that in this year, we in this month, two, and we have a solution. So we are, please, we have reached conclusions on the committee and we ask the Council of Ministers to make a certain solution based on a proposal from the Management Board. But that doesn't rule out that we as MPs, that we as clubs offer a solution, because we have one width, we've looked at everything, and at the next session, there's a particular proposal that we're going to come forward about here. So here's how much, so the SDA MPs' Club, not getting into some big controversy, will support the Financial Report, the financial plans are being received, these financial plans and programming plans are raving to the knowledge, so, uh, we expect the next report to be better, but we expect that, if this inter-resor group, if these conclusions go by, it really defines those problems that were at the existing law, just so that some future solution doesn't have the same problems again. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13068	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We're going to point 11, Ad. 11. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2015, Act No: 01-09-1205/16, of 21/04/2016 This is where the deputy chief prosecutor is present, and probably for the media, I don't know what the function of the gentleman is. The college has decided to propose that this point be postponed since the chief prosecutor is on the way, to wait for him, there are a lot of announcements for questions to the chief prosecutor. Can we vote on this point being postponed? Prepare to vote. 45 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13079	I will take the shortest opportunity to invite all my colleagues and colleagues in the House of Representatives to support one of these initiatives. I think she makes a lot of sense. I think she's got a lot of excuses. We are witnessing that dead heads have fallen even in sports competitions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we rarely have sports riots, and this is the law we need for normal people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that people with families, children can be in stadiums both in Banja Luka, and in Tuzla, and in Sarajevo, Mostar and other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no reason not to pass such laws as will be modelled to Western European countries which have been very effective in solving this problem. I'm afraid if we don't accept one such proposal and don't go in that direction too, we'll take part of the positive European legislation and in this sphere that these unloving scenes will happen to us in the future in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then we'll be able to call us journalists and ask how you comment on this or that unpleasant event at the sports resorts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it would be a good idea for us to act a little bit proactively, think ahead of time and do something that would really be useful for all the people in this country. Yes, at last parents and in Bosnia and Herzegovina can have no problem bringing their children to sports resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13080	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to point 20, 49 Ad. 20. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No: 01,02-02-1-26/15, since 28.01.2016. The Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted at the 27th session of the House of Representatives, held on 05.04.2016 and at the 18th session of the House of People, held on 27.04.2016. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and three members from the House of Representatives should be appointed to the Joint Commission for the achievement of identical text. The people's home has already appointed its delegates: Sifet Podžić, Zdenka Džambas and Dark Babalj. We as a College have a proposal: Šemsudin Mehmedović, Borislav Bojić, where he is third. We just have to wait for Mrs. Krišto third proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13090	It wasn't adopted, 10 against the RS and it wasn't adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-1.u13091	That's right, it's not adopted. Here we go again. The vote in this circle hasn't been adopted. 52 We repeat the second round of voting. So, for 21, against 11, abstention 6. There is a general majority, there is no entity in the second round of voting. So, no BHRT report and plans were adopted. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion of the Transport and Communication Commission. For 32, v. 5, abstention 1. The general and entity majority exist. So we adopted the conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission. Point 11 has been postponed. Point 12. – Information from the BiH Defence Office on two arbitration proceedings under way, act No: 01,02-50-19-953/16 of 24.03.2016 with Statement of the Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on receiving information. For 28, v. 5, abstention 5. There's a general and entity majority, we've received information. We vote on the adoption of the Commission's conclusion on foreign trade and customs. For 25, v. 5, abstention 8. The general and entity majority exist, meaning the Commission's conclusions on foreign trade and customs were adopted. Point 13. – Information on the necessary amendments to the laws and regulations in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that would allow a faster and more effective fight against corruption and organised crime, the applicant: the BiH Ministry of Security. We're voting on receiving information. For 32, v. 4, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority, we've received information. Point 14. – Information related to the International Labour Organisation Recommendation, No. 203 on additional measures to combat forced labour effectively, the applicant: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. We're voting on receiving information. For 32, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Point 15. – The current state of the process of European integration under a), b) and c). We are voting on receiving the material of the Directorate for European Integration. For 26, you don't mind, abstentioned 12. The general and entity majority exist, we've received information to know. Point 16. – Proposal for a Supplement to the Decision appointing members of the Council of the National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights of the PSBiH. We are voting on the adoption of the amendment to the Decision on designation. 53 For 27, no objection, abstention 11. The general and entity majority exist and we adopted the decision. Point 17. – Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH Glasmo on the adoption of the Decision on Designation. Twenty-six, versus two, abstentions ten. There's a general and entity majority, and we've adopted a decision to appoint. Point 18. – Decision on the harmonisation of the prices of mobile telephone services and conditions for the provision of telecommunications services, delivered by: BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications. We're voting on receiving to the knowledge of the Decision. For 35, there are no, abstentions 3. The general and entity majority exist, we've received the decision to know. Point 19. – Consideration of the Denis Bećirović parliamentary initiative, submitted on 05.04.2016., which reads: "It is up to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to refer to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the latest within 12 months of the date of adoption of this initiative in the PSBiH House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. For 27, against 11, there are no abstentions. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Are we going to the second round right now? We're going to the second round of voting. For 27, versus 11, no abstentions. There is a general majority, there is not enough majority in Republika Srpska in the second round of voting, so the initiative has not been adopted. Point 20. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We vote on proposals for the appointment of Šemsudin Mehmedović, Borislav Bojić and Borjana Krišto in the Joint Commission of both homes. For 27, v. 8, abstention 3. The general and entity majority exist, so we adopted a proposal to appoint the Commission. I'm closing the 29th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session is planned for 24 May 2016. Thank you. Session completed at 7:00 p.m.
