ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow delegates and everyone else present I warmly welcome you and open the 3rd emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 delegates, out of which in the order of Serbian 4, the order of the Croatian 5th and the order of the Bosniak people 4 delegates. As during today's day, the absent colleagues Radmanović and colleagues Radončić are justified. For the 3rd emergency session, I suggest the following: Agenda 1. Request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01-02-1-032/16, of 04.04.2016. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word about any changes and additions, i.e. against the agenda. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to work. Point one, Ad. 1. Request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You've reached the House of Representatives' request. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there is a representative of the House of Representatives present. He's not there. Okay. There's no commission here, so we can open the debate right now. Is anyone answering for a word? 2 For the word came the esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-0.u136	Since there are no promoters I assume it is the same text that we had through the Interresor Working Group's report, and since we've had a debate and since I appreciate the time of all of us here who were in this first morning's session, I would just repeat that I stand behind every word I've said about this and get into the stenogram, and for the debate on this issue not to take up time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. We used time usefully regarding the report so that something that we are, as they say,...I am sure what was important for the decisions in the House of Representatives that happened in the meantime. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-0.u138	One principled remark. As is well known, we also agreed on a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties. It is a law that contains five whole recommendations of GRECO and one partially agreed, and that law applies to electoral legislation, and electoral legislation can be changed approximately 150 days before the election. I think it's predstavnički, I meant the House of Representatives of both laws... by emergency procedure and to finish the job, because this is what complete consent has been achieved. Unfortunately, I don't know why it's not, anymore, to draw attention, I don't think there was any reason not to solve it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-0.u139	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I'm obliged to give information now. Yesterday, during a consultation with colleagues from the House of Representatives, at a joint session of the College of Commons, we also highlighted the need for the Law on the financing of political parties to be found in the package, given that the package was done by the Interresor Working Group, as well as that there is a kind of agreement that is far greater, I would say, rather than when it comes to the text of the Electoral Law that we have just received. However, I would say that we have received such very clear information that they, in light of the fact that it is not only a deadline for calling elections and working on election procedures, have left it for a regular procedure. Will they, in the meantime, intervene on this Law... of course, it is the right of MPs and the House to do so, but here is to have comprehensive information that we have stood up for that question. However, only the Home leadership, so here we are today, Dom, voting on the agenda Representatively did not find it appropriate to unite this in the package. 3 If there are no further applications, if there is no further need for information and explanations, since we are still at the debate on the procedure, so, therefore, I am giving you this necessary information to understand all aspects of the urgency of this procedure, I would conclude the debate on the procedure, so I would invite you to make a statement about the procedure. So, we are now voting on whether or not the draft law will be considered by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, 1 was against, and 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH 7 for, 1st, 1st, abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. We have both a general and an entity majority, so I realize that we have adopted the motion for a proposal for a bill on amendments and amendments to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Electoral Law on an urgent procedure. Now of course, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I am opening a debate on the bill. Please, if you'd like to apply for a hearing. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-0.u140	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-27-0.u141	In progress, the delegations with everything he did were all present here in the building and secured... TV access to the work of the House of Representatives itself, so that all delegates who wanted to be informed about the content of the amendments themselves in the amendment phase that was in the House of Representatives. There's no need, so... that makes me... I'm closing the debate. So now we move on to a statement on the amendment law and amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, 1 delegate was against, and 1 delegate was abstained. From the Federation of BiH 7 for, 1st, 1st, abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. We have a general and entity majority, so I agree that the bill on amendments and amendments to the Bosnia and Herzegovina election law is passed. Thank you. I hope we're as happy with what we've done. And here, let me say, the Interresor Working Group, according to our conclusion, continues to work, so there will be better days... Thank you very much. Session completed at 5:30.
