ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2310	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, please take your seats so we can begin our work. I warmly welcome you and open the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House. A total of 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people, attend the session. Delegate Fahrudin Radončić is unable to attend today's session for justified reasons. As indicated in the invitation to the session, and in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, delegates may be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 23rd session of the House of Nations, you were also sent a letter regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegation Martin Raguž for Minister of Communications and Transport Ismira Juska; delegate Sredoje Nović for BiH Prime Minister Denis Zvizdić; delegate Dragutin Rodić for BiH Council Chairman Denis Zvizdić. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to the Council of Ministers. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public Radio Television Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to the delegate Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2311	Thank you, Mr. President. A warm greeting to all present. 2 My question has been addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communications at the Council of Ministers of BiH, which refers to the dynamics of the construction of corridor 5c, especially the shares of Most Picitel and Puritel Zvirovići. A brief explanation of why I asked this question: Simply a lot of people contact me and communicate me, I believe already many other fellow esteemed envoys. Given that the money for this very important strategic share of the strategic infrastructure project for Bosnia and Herzegovina amounting to over 100m euros is secured, as far as I know in 2014, and that somewhere on this day a year ago it is true that it is open, uh, financial offers from the bidder. To this day, the public, at least I don't know what stage it is, why no decisions have been made and simply why time is wasting, and assumptions are created to do business. And to remind us all here the bearers of the most important functions in this country, and therefore they objectively received and supported, announced that the construction of Corridor 5c is infrastructure projects, meaning that the backbone around which the development and new quality of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina will revolve. Unfortunately, I have to say, practice seems unresponsible with those announcements. And if I don't elaborate wider, I'll remind you that only the bridge on the Sava River near Svilaj has been late for nearly five years, the Gradišca can also be spoken of by the southern sections. So I know that Mr. Minister hasn't taken office long ago, but one strategic role of the Ministry at the state level and coordination with those in charge, and I know that most of the entities here are in charge of implementing and operating these important things, but I think it's useful to hear the answer to this question. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2312	Thank you very much. Minister Jusko has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2313	Dear Chairman, deputies, distinguished representatives of the media, I warmly welcome you all. I thank Representative Raguž for the question, and I will be free to confirm what you just said. In the past four and a half months, as far as I'm concerned, we've been trying to put all of our powers in motion to put the processes that have been on the side long enough to be, as I say, realized. As you know... The silks are already going, when it comes to Gradiška, we have managed to save 6.8m euros, which have already been pulled aside, because Bosnia and Herzegovina has fully met all the conditions that have been related to us. At this point, Croatia is missing 65m euros to start over. But what's most important is I want to inform you that both sides are absolutely interested in this project starting as soon as possible. When it comes to the project that you were talking about about Mostar South, I would just like to point out that three months ago we received information that this project was pulled aside by one of the four projects, but by intervention of this ministry, the project was re-enlisted. We didn't want to let anything we delegated go to the side. You're also right that this is below entity levels, but I'll be free to give you the information at which stage this project is in. So, at the end of the procedure, the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH was awarded the contract for two LOTs, on the part of the Počitel – Zvirovići, i.e. LOT 1 Roeder Most – Pocitel i LOT 2 Pocitel – Zvirovići. For LOT 1, when it comes to LOT 1, the Public Enterprise of the highway awaits the consent of the EIB, the European Investment Bank, 3 after which a decision will be taken on the award of the contract for construction. One of the conditions for the signing of a contract with contractors was the conclusion of an expropriation procedure, i.e. the entry into property, which was brought to an end in October, thus obtaining conditions for the signing of the contract of both LOTs. This is what the Ministry is doing intensively, so to speak, a positive pressure on this public enterprise to move forward with these projects as soon as possible. I often repeat that the only resource that we do not have at this time is definitely time and be assured that this Ministry will not allow any kind of waiting and will absolutely make yourself available to you to share with you all the information you need. What's most important is that one point that was connected to this project, which is that it was pulled aside, wasn't pulled aside, was put back into play. It's in the game together for these four projects and I'm absolutely optimistic, according to the dynamics of the works so far, that as soon as this ends. We will inform you, of course, both you and all the other agents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2314	Thank you very much. Is the delegate Raguž satisfied with his answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2315	I am pleased and thank the Minister for this precise answer and, ultimately, on one positive information, so that things are kind of moving and unblocking. And I hope, too, that this clear attitude of yours is, in fact, a message that non-transparent processes of blocking strategic projects cannot be tolerated, especially by the highest legislative body that besides the legislative body has that supervisory role, and I'm glad you recognized it. And here, we'll continue that communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2316	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Sredoja Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2317	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, ministers in the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to ask today, in accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the following delegation question – Which of the executives at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina today has personal security and how many persons provide each of the executives, and how much it cost the direkcija for the Coordination of Police Authorities in the period 01.01.2016 to 15.10.2016, travel expenses, nights, diaries, etc. in the country and abroad, especially during vacations? Why am I asking this question? One dimension when we were making a decision on the security of personality, objects in particular, the Council of Ministers decision 15 years ago and when this country was in something different and secure, and material, etc., and the other dimension today. I simply want to encourage that the time has come to see whether all those who were right at the time, or who still have the right to today, are at risk 4 securely, as far as they are at risk, which is what this Parliamentary Assembly should know, if already security is being used, which, therefore, is absolutely undisputed by the right to use it accordingly. And that's why I'm interested in presenting how much of this funding is being used annually, on the one hand, but on the other hand it would be very good for the Council of Ministers to finally put on the agenda and the Decision on the Security of Objects, above all foreign diplomatic representations, whether they provide themselves the same way our representations are provided abroad. Whether or not there is a reciprocity in principle, whether all those diplomatic representations in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are so threatened that tens and hundreds of police officers from the Directorate are providing these facilities today. I think it's finally time to look at it in detail. Where there is need, not disputed of course, to either step up or leave on the same security or on the contrary to change and supplement the Decision. Here, that's why I asked this delegate question today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2318	Thank you very much. The reply of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2319	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. I will give a brief answer, in accordance with the time at my disposal. Therefore, the Implementation Directorate shall, for the coordination of police bodies in the performance of its legal obligation, apply the Instructions on the scope and manner of carrying out tasks of natural and technical insurance of persons, objects and property. The directive provides for insurance in Bosnia and Herzegovina to have three categories. The first category is members of the BiH presidency, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and foreign officials visiting Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second category is ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers, BiH Court President, Prosecutor General of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. And finally the third category is the deputies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly chairman's home, persons who are protected by the BiH Council of Ministers' decisions and finally persons who are protected by the decision of the director of the Directorate on the basis of an expert assessment of the Directorate itself. Those persons shall be entitled to insurance in the first category 24 hours a day, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and while travelling or staying abroad, throughout the term of office or until the expiry of this Decision. At the moment, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Directorate is protecting 27 people. The other information will be provided by the Directorate in accordance with existing regulations and the level of data that it can publicly present and apply. I finally, that's about the answer to your question, but ultimately I want to say that I completely agree with you that this question should be made extremely transparent, but I don't think it should be related just to, as you asked, 2016. I think there should be one parallel table from 2010 to 2016 and it should not be related only to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the public is equally interested in the situation in this sector and at the level of Bosnian-Herzegovina entities. So, who has the right to insurance there, in which extent, in which the length, how much funds and at the entity level are spent on the security and escort of the persons performing the functions, and at the level, therefore, of the entities and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here, I propose that the issue and the scope be extended in order to really have very clear and transparent information on how many, at least 30 key functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are entitled to insurance, in which extent and how much money is spent on these officials, not only in terms of insurance, but in terms of representation, car procurement, travel expenses that do not have their own reports and similar things. I think all things should be returned extremely transparently. 5 As far as I am concerned, I will present all information on the role of the Council of Ministers chairman in line with the required issue, but at the same time with the other 30 functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2320	Thank you very much. Delegate Sredoje Nović is satisfied with his answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2321	So I think this is just a partial answer and in any case I didn't expect the chairman to be able to do it today within 24 hours to give everything that's in the delegate's question. I expect and demand that in writing it be manifested. And what I'm, I'm stressing again isn't just a word here if it's, I agree, just '16. For years, this is about spending the budget of the Budget of BiH on different grounds and this. So whether it was supposed to be 20102, '03, '05. The same extent of security as in 2016 should finally, i.e. the Council of Ministers, expect it to fully look at and rationally bring about any changes and additions to the manual itself. So, I'd like to ask you to get a written and complete answer to what I've been asking for in my delegate question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2322	Thank you very much. The word is by delegate Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2323	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question was also addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. Chairman. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I ask the following delegate question. At the 20th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 16 June 2016, I asked the following delegate question – When will the Council of Ministers of BiH adopt the Regulation on the regulation of the maximum price of medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina? The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers gave a very correct answer from which I realized that the issue of the day will be adopted, because only the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Law and the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury was lacking. After five months, I don't think there's any movement. It is unexplainable that it takes so much time to get an opinion from the competent institutions, a team before the chairman said at the end of the presentation – as far as I'm concerned, the Regulation is acceptable for me and in this sense I will vote for this new and last version of the text of the Medicinal Products Regulation. The reality is still cruel, we pay for the most expensive drugs in the region, and the regulations are still missing. My question is – What is the real problem that makes it impossible to adopt the said Regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2324	Thank you very much. Here's the chairman. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2325	I would like to thank the representative for the question. I am still fully behind my position that I said and last time, when we get opinions, binding opinions, and when the assumptions are made that the material can be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, I, as the one proposing the agenda, will immediately put it on the agenda and I will vote for the proposal that has come, forwarded to the ministries to give their opinions. I think that this proposal is extremely acceptable except for a few professional corrections that should be made in the proposal itself and that we expect to be defined by the profession and not simply by the people within the Council of Ministers. So, I remind you once again that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices provided the Ministry of Civil Affairs with a new proposal for a Regulation on how to control prices, how to design medicines prices and how to report prices for medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has been forwarded to the competent institutions to give an opinion on it and we have not yet received those opinions. Without those opinions, it is impossible for this material to appear so incompletely at a Council of Ministers meeting. In the meantime, as far as we were able to learn from the public media, the Agency's Expert Council was sitting in an attempt to reach a consensus on the solutions in the Regulation itself. We learned that, if they hadn't come to a common position, they had failed to reach a consensus, it was already more than once repeated and known coefficient, whether 0.90, given 0.95, 0975 or 1. And here, we expect or should say... another couple of weeks of the Expert Council to once again organise a session, try to reach a consensus and what is their consensus will in some way be a guideline for the Council of Ministers' work. We will surely support what they, as an expert, agree upon on the Council of Ministers. Therefore, as soon as we get opinions or as soon as the Expert Council reaches a consensus in the new session, there will be assumptions that the Regulation will be adopted. In the meantime, the Agency has done an expert economic study on the effects of the Regulation on medicinal products. They're not that significant. As we have the opportunity to read constantly in the media, I think for the last time in the media there was even a report that the savings would be almost 150m euros. So those savings always get some, some... times 3 times 5, etc., but no doubt all of us in the Council of Ministers have the view that we need to adopt a Regulation that will certainly lead to savings within the drug market in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the regulation itself must pass the envisaged procedures. So, finally to conclude, we expect the Council of Experts to reorganize the session for the next two weeks, finally commit to one coefficient, or to give us two variants as a choice, and we will further analyse it at the Council of Ministers, and immediately afterwards, such a regulation will be on the Council of Ministers. So at this point, indeed, the Agency's General Council is the one that sets out the proposal under the Agency's Law, which sets out the proposal, and the final policy and final decision is made by the Council of Ministers. So we expect them to really make the move, to reach a consensus and to pass it on in the next 15 days to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2326	Thank you very much. Mr. Rodić, do you have a need? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2327	Thank you for your comprehensive response. The exhausted answer was June 20th, but I sincerely hope and see that there is an intention to get to the Regulations and hope that it will be within this time limit. I also asked the question precisely because I was informed that this compliance within the Agency was not going very well. And it's taking too long for me, and I think no matter how much savings are possible, that it's still... that citizens pay for the most expensive drugs in the region. I'm asking to be delivered this answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2328	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the delegates' questions, now we're moving on to the session's agenda. For the 23rd session, I suggest the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 22nd meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 19.02.2016 and 18.03.2016; 3. Proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1-1361/16, from 09.05.2016 and 10.06.2016; 4. Proposal for a law on the provision of free legal aid (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1-1789/16, of 28.06.2016; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1165/16, since 16.05.2016, with the Opinion of the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the House of Peoples; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2091/16, of 02.08.2016; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2194/16, of 05.08.2016; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Administration Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2275/16, of 26.08.2016; 9. Report by the Commission of the College of the People's House on Efforts of Understanding on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02- 02-1-1510/16, from 20.05.2016 and 13.07.2016; 10. Report on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2015, issue: 01,02,03-50-19-2071/16, of 29.07.2016; 11. Report on the care of persons under international protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-41-1987/16, of 22.07.2016; 12. Information on the acceptance and integration of Bosnian Herzegovina citizens returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Readmission Agreement for the period 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2015 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03- 41-1986/16, of 22.07.2016; 8 13. Proposal for a declaration of condemnation of hate speech – Proposer: delegate Martin Raguž, number 02- 02-2-2746/16, of 27.10.2016; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Tourism Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, No. 01,02-05-2-2229/16, of 15/08; 15.08.2016; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the regional housing programme, No: 01,02-05-2-2240/16, of 18.08.2016; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation, No. 01.02-05-2241/16, of 18.08.2016; 17. Providing consent to the ratification of the Grant No Agreement. TF 0A0656 (A project to strengthen financial management and control) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / International Development Association (World Bank), issue: 01.02-05-22244/16, since 18.08.2016; 18. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2-2245/16, of 18/08; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans, issue: 01,02-05-2-2246/16, dated 18.08.2016; 20. Giving consent to ratification Amendments to the Statutes and its annexes adopted by the General Assembly since the founding of the World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), No: 01,02-05-2-2479/16, of 23.09.2016; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Modernisation of the Ways in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-2480/16, of 23/09/2016; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on military training co-operation, No 01,02-05-2-2567/16, of 04.10.2016; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the co-location of diplomatic and consular representations, No: 01,02-05-2268/16, of 04.10.2016. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change and a supplement? We don't have any reports. I therefore conclude that we adopted the agenda without a vote, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 9 There are 14 delegates present: for 13, there is no one against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, therefore I find that the minutes of the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 19.02.2016 and 18.03.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2331	Mr. Kadić in front of the Bosniak Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2333	Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2334	Thank you very much. And the Serbian Club. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Who did you propose? Excuse me? Darko Babalj, right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2341	Thank you very much, President. Hello, nice greeting to all present. Well, the product of unanimity of our negative opinion is right through the months of waiting to get an opinion from the Council of Ministers, we haven't got it. The application of this Law implies an increase of funds in the budget of institutions, and the Committee is indeed, it is not intended to adopt the law with financial consequences without the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. I particularly stress that our Committee on Finance and the Budget of the People's House is not for ad hoc amendments to the Law on Salaries and I intend to comply with the needs of individual institutions. The commission advocates, and also appeals to all actors to join the systematic and comprehensive resolution of the accumulated problems, especially when it comes to the area of salaries and remuneration of employees, so it starts with salaries in the Office for the Review of Appeals, Soldiers, Cops and Anything else that has appeared in these times. It is not good to adopt individual solutions and disrupt the financial balance of the system. We have so far had ad hoc solutions, and as far as I know in preparation and some other laws, time will show whether these, whether these demands are justified or populist, but we, at the Committee's session, have unanimously decided to be a united attitude so as not to adopt any solutions without the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. We didn't get an opinion, we waited for it here for a long series, we had to make a decision and here's an explanation. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2342	Thank you very much. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, if it is present and if it wishes. He's not there, he doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests of today's session. So, I didn't answer that we are essentially talking about the content of this Law, because it's so simple that there's not much to talk about, for the sake of public interest it's important to know that a number of people do practically the same job, have equal status and have different salaries and was the idea to even it out. I have reported that I am responding to this principle, so basically the Commission is taking on, as I would say, some kind of role, I cannot say the right, because it does not result from any act, that it is holding back the Parliamentary Assembly's right to adopt laws on its own, because the Commission thinks that this should be done in some unique way. It is not a practice that should be acceptable, you can oppose the adoption of such a law for substantive reasons, as it does not comply with the Constitution, but when you give yourself the role of someone who says we will use a business opportunity that makes it impossible for Parliament to adopt the law practically because 6 of you has a specific position on it. This should not happen, with all due respect to each of you 6 as equal-minded members of this Parliament. So no one can deny Parliament any procedural issues, possibilities, the right to decide anything. So you know that you're practically doing it now, because even when we say, if we now, let's say, here's what we disagree with your opinion, as it was about some laws in the case before, you bring the same opinion again, and almost, Parliament has nothing to do with it. That, these procedural mechanisms I think are not designed for situations like this, because this is one quite ordinary thing, I would say, even a daily question on which the Parliamentary Assembly should plead if it is in its jurisdiction. So, you can make arguments, I'm saying my interpretation believe me and the Rules of Procedure, you can make arguments saying that this law should not be passed, but just under this very reasoning that you would not allow it until the Council of Ministers gives some kind of unique opinion on it. So, it's not the Rules of Procedure, so with all due respect to you, so it can still be difficult to enter the Rules of Procedure, because then it shouldn't be the Parliamentary Assembly, but then every metric issue would be decided by committees and said this wasn't going and over. So it's not good. Now, I respect your opinion, I will make a statement about it and everything, nothing dramatic is happening, but I only ask you, therefore, we have had several such cases before, so it is not good that the commissions deny the possibility of a parliamentary assembly to make final decisions, especially because the Parliamentary Assembly knows, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, a variety of other instruments which, in the sense of some things, refuse or accept, depending on whether they are acceptable or unacceptable and conflicting with some interest or something else. So, I don't think that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2344	Thank you very much. Mr Dragutin Rodić has the wrong quote. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2345	I just need to say a few words and, of course, respecting the opinion of each of us here, in our position, but it was necessary to read this Opinion delivered by the Finance and Budget Commission, chairing only the conclusions and what we have proposed, and to read the whole opinion then it would be seen how much the Finance Commission has made an effort to come to a solution and to solve this very simple thing. However, I have to say that this was on the Commission, so this morning, it was the 27th session, if I am not wrong about the Finance and Budget Commission, and we, as the Commission and the 24th session, have dedicated the Board of Appeals as the thematic session, where we have discussed many important issues and have fully learned about the work of the Commission itself and have asked for certain solutions on how to get to the possibility that the Commission is doing its job in full capacity and to solve those problems that have arisen from a previous period and which may be consequences and laws as it is. Pam, we know that in the House of Representatives this Law was adopted by emergency procedure and was adopted, so, without analysis and without everything that should be preceded by one law, we wanted through a regular procedure to reach a quality solution and, of course, none of the Commissioners had the motive to stop anything and take over those powers that were not. And this is just the Commission's thinking and the proposal to this House, what Dom's decision to make, it's on every delegate specifically to vote and express his opinion. I personally think, and here we know and this is not the first case, we're looking for one system solution, I don't see what the problem is, I don't see any problem, of course by procedure we don't have to get the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and it's completely business-clear, but I think Mrs Zovko very well explained that simply neither of us delegates nor MPs can look at the financial effects that can come from any law. This may be simple, but tomorrow comes a whole series of laws that individually solve that area, we cannot individually look at the extreme effects that can result from the adoption of such a law. Therefore, I have just come to say that the Commission has not taken any authority and gone out of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission has only adopted its position on this issue, proposed to the House of Peoples, for the opinion can be voted against, and this will be the result of the final outcome of this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2346	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any? Mrs. Zovko answered, so she gave up, but Mrs. Zdneka Džambas has a wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2347	I didn't mean the wrong quote, but to replicate to Mr. Tadić. So, at this, the Commission, here are the members, I will set an example like I said yesterday, we had in the afternoon session of ours, our Commission was with the audit team, with the Ministry of Finance and about some other things, and then we talked about what the consequences of the amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds were in the previous period. And that's why, Mr. Ognjen, to you, Mr. Tadić, you know, we are now in the Ad hoc commission to elect members of the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency and we saw the last time that we received five requests, five applications, that we have no one from the Bošnjak order and the rest, in the previous order we did not have from the Srbin, when Commission President Mr. Đonlagić said that he talked to some people to apply, they said – no, we are not worth it. We've led to absurdity working on some boards of directors, boards of directors, etc., so we with 15 finances and we're going to start that story to see what the effects of those stories are on million-dollar, millions of savings, is that just financially or we have a problem here's one important thing to solve, which is high education, people won't report. Therefore, these are the consequences, so we will discuss so far what we have adopted, and as are financial and all the other consequences, we are launching an initiative from the Finance Commission. So we don't know what's going to happen with this, we wouldn't challenge a whole series of others to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2348	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Commission for Finance and Budget has adopted this Opinion unanimously, that it has not come out of its jurisdiction and that, if Mr Ognjen Tadić has any objections to what he said, this applies to the Rules of Procedure rather than to the work of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2349	Thank you, Mr. Softić. So, that only the details work, so this business opportunity through this correction of the wrong quote... accept. So here we are talking about the principles of this law. The principle on which the Bill of Law was based is clearly stated in the explanation, so it says - in the Law on Salary and Refunds in BiH institutions in Article 2 of point (f) it is defined that the paying class is a qualification element that is determined for each post in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the creteries, so it is stated, and there must be no discrimination. So, according to the law that treats these people's jobs, so they're all with the same authority, the same job works and there's discrimination. There is an assessment of the financial effect, Mr Rodić, at point 4 of the reasoning, this Law covers a total of 8 perpetrators with a correction of the coefficient from 4.96 to 6.5, so the total increase is 1.54 times 8. So you don't need the finance ministry to multiply 8 times 1.54. If that is the amount for which the BiH Budget will be damaged and seriously endangers it then we should split up immediately. So, I wouldn't say, I just want to say, my date is just principled, it's got nothing to do with the work of the Commission, you've noticed one phenomenon that's roughly like this -- there's some trend in the House of Representatives that, let me say, it's policy-making through the Law of Salutations, it's several times had an effect in the House of Peoples, part of the delegates is unsatisfactory, and now they want to establish some criteria of behavior. It's okay, but it has nothing to do with these people, which has absolutely nothing to do with this, and there are some lobbyists who are just going to do with their interest right now to say -- let's now apply some treatment that is specific, and these are the most common people that we've chosen to do business here, when they got there, they were confronted with the fact that for the same job they receive different salaries. So, as far as I'm concerned, don't get it wrong, I'm not here to raise apriori, and I'm for it to be reduced to those who have a higher salary, so if some members of the Commission for the same work receive a higher salary let's just cut them to the amount of those who receive a lower salary with a bet if these candidates for a lower salary were acceptable to them, they would probably also be able to get those candidates that have a higher salary for that lower salary, too. But just don't make it any different, 'cause then we're breaking exactly the principle that says there's no discrimination. So, I'm flattening this salary to give them a smaller one or to be the same to everyone, but to be different is not what I'm, I mean, correctly, not acceptable. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2350	Thank you very much. If there's no more, I'm closing the argument. We are voting on the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. So there are 14 delegates present -- 13 for, 1 against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, 1 against, without abstentions. There is a general majority and there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the opinion of the Commission on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted and thus, in accordance with Rule 104(2) of the Rules of Procedure, this Law is considered rejected. We are voting on the conclusion of the Commission on Finance and the budget of the House of Nations, if we should read it again before. There's no need. We'll approach the vote. There were 14 delegates present – there were 14, no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that this proposal has received the necessary majority and has been adopted. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1- 2091/16, of 02.08.2016. This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the proposal for a law, that the draft law does not fully comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which is in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. For this reason, the College of the House of Nations sent a letter to the promoter and the Opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the observed shortcomings in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the BiH Law on Defence. On 16 September 2016, the Proposer submitted the opinion of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency on the compliance of the draft law with the standards for the protection of personal data missing in the bill. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, Halid Genjac. It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. There's no need. 17 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence in the first reading. There are 14 delegates present – for 13, with no votes against and 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the bill and amendments to the Law on BiH's Defence were adopted in the first reading. Moving to point seven, that's Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2194/16, of 05/08.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you say, this is a debate on needs and principles, the needs are definitely going to be regulated by this area of associations and foundations. Here we had a conflict of opinion earlier, I would call it, about the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which applied precisely to 8 people, as I understood. Here we have one law that regulates, so the largest employer in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the so-called non-governmental sector, i.e. associations and foundations. And of course there's also the need to do this and there's definitely been a shift with this bill, but what I want to share with you and what I want to share with you, it's the possibility that associations that are independent, and they're always dependent or someone else's, can behave in public authority, and that doesn't change by this law, even though it's precise in relation to the past law as it was, so that's when they were allowed ad hoc and made a Council of Ministers' decision. So you set up three men's associations and bring in the Council of Ministers, you now exercise public authority and then they do what they want. For example, there is one association called 18 AMUS and this AMUS, the president is Dino Dervišhalilović, better known as Dino Merlin, and they charge all the catering facilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, charge all the radio stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, charge all the TVs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so here are the ones we get from them in political parties if we use music, means we deliver it to them and pay them. And then I gave myself time, so I went to this page of the AMUS, and I don't know any of those performers except the late Jadranka Stojaković, who I believe is no longer active in the management of the spoken association and has a search engine there, means that you use a performer or a song and that he throws out whether he's a member of the AMUS and if he gets a certain part of what's being charged, I say again, in all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I normally gave myself the law, and I wrote myself a few performers from Herzegovina, who listen, say, in my neighborhood Mate Bulić, Zorka Begić, Ivica Bago, has no heads. So then I wrote down, I don't know, let's just say maybe they're a little more modern, so listen up, so I typed Tara...(?I haven't heard of any domestic performers, and these people are paying a fee to AMUS last night. I'm not in favour of it being messy, so it's not my idea, I'm trying to get it back into the framework of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there's either some Institute of Intellectual Property or for, there's the Ministry of Art, for culture, we have a Regulatory Agency for Communications, which means that we can precisely ask for radio stations, and we have people who are dealing with certain expressions of art, which is why they wouldn't do it, which is why the institutions wouldn't charge for it. Because to be honest, I don't believe that the said AMUS delivers any financial report they've paid off, how much they've paid off, and they sue the people who hold the catering facilities. And now, for example, I'm opening a grill and I'm letting the Rollingstones in and... and I have to pay Din Merlin, it has nothing to do with common sense. Or another example, at the end of last year I asked a delegation question to one competent ministry in connection with the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, so associations are obliged and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, regardless of all its size, to all that it does, as much as it means to this country, is still just an NGO, meaning only the association of citizens just like the Association of Beekeepers for..., so there is no big difference in the law are the same. With the VTK having much more financial resources at its disposal than the beekeepers' Association said. I was interested in whether they delivered a financial report by the end of the fourth month until they were required by law, and I finally got a written answer in style, maybe it wasn't my heart hiding, so I'm going to repeat it in due course, because I have information that they haven't even delivered for 2014, that I'm not talking about 2015. So this area is messy, and now we have, so the Ministry of Foreign and Trade Relations, we have agencies there, we have, so there's someone to do it. Furthermore, where does any right come from, it says here finely that associations are funded from membership fees, where does anyone have the right to join someone, if this one hasn't filed for membership? You in Bosnia and Herzegovina today, if you establish a limited-responsibility society, you only get a letter from the Foreign Chamber of Commerce that you are their member and that you are obliged to pay them membership fees, which goes with automation. Where does that lead us, what do we allow, we stand for transparency, what's the next step? When a baby is born that parents get a memo from tomorrow you're a member of HDZ, SDS, HSS, SDA doesn't matter if it's the next step in that transparency... (?) No microphone turned on HDZ '90, here's a fellow Raguž, no need for a memo, so we can't go that way. I am in favour of the organisation's work being reduced into the framework of institutions as regards the conduct of public powers, i.e. Doing a 19-state job, 'cause the job of the state is this stuff that I'm talking about. Or we have another variant, let's start another association, so let's cut the costs in the institutions, see that the problem and the increase in compensation for some 8 people, cut the costs in the institutions, let's start the association, let's give the associations work and that we're calm. One association should deal with the work that the SIPA is doing, some may securitize, can we agree which, other beekeepers' association to take over the Federation agricultural production, I don't know the Association of Pigs to take over agriculture in the RS, we can, and we take it all off, then we don't need anything. We also have private colleges, what do we need this one for higher education, why would we bother with that? Come on... there's a nice college, there's a school in Kiseljak, there's seven, there's eight in Sarajevo, there's in Medjugorje, there's in Mostar, there's in Travnik, there's people in the privates making money, so let's give them some water and higher education, which we would bother with, which we would have universities and universities. I don't think that's the right way, I think it's the right way to put it all back nicely in the framework of institutions, and the associations write here nicely – that they can implement projects of public interest. It's different when they apply, when they get the funds and you need to do it and that, yeah. But if they had the authority to do what they're doing, it doesn't show me, at the very least, that we're a serious state. That's why there are some other indicators now, but here's the thing, if I didn't spread the story, I'd stop here. So, there is an exceptional need, but this law in principle does not solve anything from this condition that we have. We have again because once someone was good to someone who was wondering something, this one let him charge, work, cash inn for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, however he wanted them. If civil disobedience occurs, and regularly occurs, in a particular case, here's to going back to Amus, in areas where Dino Merlin is not exactly listening, here's to say... and then people get a lawsuit and they have to pay the court fees, etc. etc. I don't think that's just right, and most importantly, I think that AMUS is, I say, an ordinary association of artists, like that can be established tomorrow as much as you want, but nobody has the right to charge for it as you do. Just as the political party is the association of people who have similar attitudes and, for example, it is now doing so that we give authority to BPS Sefer Halilović and that we are currently all in other parties it has nothing to do with it, because they have the authority to manage the state. Here I think it's... a display. This is not normal at least, and I think we are the only country in which NGOs dictate to the Council of Ministers and Parliament as well as how they decide what and how. That's why I can't support this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2355	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. We're going to vote. We vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. There are 14 delegates present – 10 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. Federation of BiH 7 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 3 for, without votes against, 2 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the proposal for an amendment to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point eight, that's, uh, 20 Ads. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Administration Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1- 2275/16, of 26.08.2016. This is the first reading of the bill. First there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received opinions from the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and that it is not fully in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a result, the College of the House of Nations sent a letter to the promoter and the Opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the observed shortcomings in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Administration. The proposer delivered the opinion of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency on the draft law that was missing in the bill on 05.10.2016. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. At the 35th session, held on 30.08.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, Halid Genjac. It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Do we have a report? We don't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Administration Act in the first reading. There are 14 delegates present – 13 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report by the Commission of the College of the People's House on Efforts of Understanding on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1510/16, from 20.05.2016 and 13.07.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2362	Thank you, Mr. President. And before I speak briefly about the argument, about the content of this Declaration, I really want to thank the College, the members of the College, and the presidents of the clubs, who, in short, accepted that this Declaration be held at today's session and on the agenda. I think that's a good message for all of us. There was, of course, one silence about the work of the House before the local elections and, uh, this is a good opportunity for this, I would say, very important civilization document to be found and accepted by this distinguished House and that the public has one insight into our responsible position when this question is on the agenda. So I am a formal proposer as a member of the Democratic Initiative for Europe, but I really do consider us all to be honest, all of us who have no political ownership over this proposal because they are members of the Democratic Initiative for Europe and from both entities' positions and opposition. And, uh, I think, so this is one example of how some important issues, regardless of the political position, identity or belonging, can be agreed together, and that's what I think this country really needs. So, once again, thank you, I believe we'll accept with the debate. I'll just say for a little while, so we're witnesses of a lead time when it comes to hate speech in places, not just Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'd say wider and globally, and lead words, the one, as the famous writer and poet said, kill me too much of a word. Here today we have, so one, I'd say, an escalation of hate speech that, by its ambition and consequences, really seems devastating to the being of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its substance, which is a cultural, national, religious, individual identity, everything that means that dimension. It is highly attacked, dialogue, harmonisation is almost so an unknown dimension and, uh, that space is, in some way, being introduced, especially passed on to young generations with a tendency to promote, justify, say, terrorism as a global evil, extremism and radicalism of all kinds, not to talk about radical nationalist and ethnical concepts that are constantly confrontational, so it is high time that we as legislators give one principled position, this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so, this House, the principle document that determines some important questions. That is how it is placed in 10 points and I think it does not enter into any area, but simply invites all public officials, all legislative levels, and here I will say that, apart from the House of Representatives and the National Assembly in the entity of Republika Srpska, I think it has adopted this text or similar, in the procedure of the Federation Parliament, and as an expression of the will of the constituent peoples, I think it would be some kind of, like, what I would say at the end of the sugar, in the end, if we want to think positively. So this is about, therefore, not entering the space of the right to freedom of opinion, expression, exchange of information, regardless... it's a fundamental human right, but we must also clearly conclude that hate speech is increasingly present and that it seems devastating. And in this context, we need to condemn that hate speech, express our willingness to take further action in preventing such a way and sanctioning it. We have, we don't need to make new laws, but we need to see if laws are implemented, how effective the judiciary is, if there's enough sanctions. I think it's one of the important things. We see that some application of sanctions is already in this election campaign and reaction, I would say, minimal, but encouraging, given that, in a way, it is introduced into public space. Then, we need to apply international standards, not only what the Council of Europe is, but the protocols and the Cybercrime Convention that we have ratified. So these are all important issues, and in particular we need to invite the media to one true partnership cooperation, given their, I would say, a crucial role in public influence, that, in some ways, they also prevent cases of abuse of media space that are increasingly objectively available, means Internet abuse, I won't talk about it, we see what's happening today on that plan. And that in this situation... indeed, honestly, the civil sector as partners and all other institutions, therefore, that this question really be one question where, without constitutional changes, without political confrontations, we can work on the overall image of the country, to create and encourage those who want to stay here and invest. So be careful, and you communicate with ordinary people, it's not just business anymore, it's more trust in the future... And one of these declarations, I think it's justified and I hope it comes across your... Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2363	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ognjen Tadić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the support of this initiative, voted by other MPs of the Serbian Democratic Party as well as other members of Parliament in the House of Representatives, I would just like to say that after 26 years, we have therefore come to a very serious conflict that condemns hate speech. I can't help but notice, and because of this stenogram and because, who knows when this topic will be on the agenda again, that we're missing something that's at the heart of this problem, where hate speech is just a form of phenomenon, and that's a culture of hatred that we have in this country. And it's not, as it can be mistakenly considered, related exclusively to international relations, it's a family issue, it's also a question between friends, amongst the closest associates, between each segment of society we live in. And I think the primary consequence of the huge frustration of the largest number of people who are not able to live and to realize the most elemental needs, and that hatred or act of hate is nothing more than joining a dominant way of acting like expressions and protests, and disdain, and resistance and, let me say, some kind of struggle to make something happen. So each of our struggles to improve life, so it moves through the channels of hate culture and not through the channels of creativity culture. 25 It is good if we agree on this, and I do not doubt that we will, to support today the Declaration against hate speech, it is good that anyone here begins to apply the Declaration in their everyday behavior, but it is a key thing to try to find a way out, which as Parliament, of course, we are not self-authorized nor have such kind or authority, I would say, but as a society in general against the culture of hate that exists and to open up to all people who make this society paths of creativity as paths of exit from the frustrating position in which they are located and thus close these channels of hate and contribute to the conversion of a culture of hate into a culture of creativity, which would be good for all people living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2365	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Rodić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2366	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a little bit. I think we stay silent today at this Declaration, although we are in preparation for this session and although it came relatively short notice, we appreciate that the promoters have made an effort to come up with one quality text, but I wanted to say something else. We normally have a problem in this society between normative and real, what as people try to bring together and make certain laws and declarations, but their application and everything that I think doesn't follow that trend. I will remind the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has made certain steps, and perhaps the first in the region, and has passed a certain act that has governed a particular area, including the behaviour between us to be, and I must say that the House of Peoples, that perhaps one of the few institutions that, due to the composition of the 15 delegates, may not be the right institution in which all of this is exhibited..., because we are all making a significant effort and contributing to a cultural dialogue. However, the fact is that we also adopted the Ethics Code, which may have been the first time here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, if I am not mistaken, since 2008, in '09. And I think we have a lot of elements to send positive messages and positive energy. If we know that the political system can change in a year, two days or a revolution, by evolution, or we already know how, in principle, the economic system in 10 years, the value system, by some studies, can't be changed in 100 years, then it's quite clear what our society is in. And for that reason, I absolutely believe that this Declaration today makes sense, but let's all try not to stay in normative and... we agreed, but to be in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-10-27-0.u2367	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on a motion for a declaration of condemnation of hate speech. There are 13 delegates present – 13 for, without votes against and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. 26 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I find that the declaration of condemnation of hate speech – the promoter: the delegate Martin Raguž was adopted. Congratulations, Mr. Raguž. I suggest we bring together the debate and the statement on points 13 to 23, including item 23 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate about this proposal. We haven't joined the vote yet, I beg you, we have a debate before that. If someone wants to discuss uniting these dots, you have a chance to sign in. If you don't, then we'll approach the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, we can repeat the vote now. There are 13 delegates present – 13 for, without votes against and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I realize that we have adopted the conclusion that the joint debate on points 13 to 23, including point 23. Ad. 13. - 23. Grants of consent for the ratification of the Agreement, the Statute, the Protocol and the Treaty
