ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1302	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the EU delegation and the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, and I also welcome them if they responded. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from Bosniak, 5 from the Brvatski and 5 from the Serbian people. Delegate Fahrudin Radončić is unable to attend the session for justified reasons. As you are indicated in the call for a session and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will allow delegates to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 14th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form were submitted by delegate Mario Karamatić, BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović; delegate Dragutin Rodić, BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Sarovic; delegate Sredoje Nović, BiH Minister of Civil Affairs Mr Osmanović Adil. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure of this announcement were delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers on which the issue concerns. I would like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public Radio Television Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, and in accordance with Article 155(1). Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. The word gives delegate Mario Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers. 2 My question concerns meat exports to Turkey. Namely, the only branch that brings additional value to Bosnia and Herzegovina is primary agricultural producers and meat exporters. And we have witnessed, following through the media in recent days, the affairs that have appeared with forged animal passports. According to some information, veterinary services have found about 725 counterfeit animal passports and the media have expected to follow. The point is that this whole fama is doing great and material and any other damage to those exporters and purchasers of domestic meat who have done according to positive legal regulations and who have done fair work. My question refers specifically, not to what the prosecution is doing at all, what SIPA does, to what data the Ministry of Foreign Trade may have, which is – where exactly the companies have established irregularities, to say here names so that from these exporters who have worked properly take off the balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1304	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Šarović, the honourable minister, has the word, Mr. Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1305	Thank you. I welcome you all. Perhaps, at the very introduction, that in 2015, exports of meat and edible... products to Turkey, meaning in 2015, amounted to 87 million KM, while in 2014 exports amounted to 5.6 million KM, while two years earlier, in 2012 and 2013, these exports were symbolic 6,000 KM. I don't know how much time my chairman has left to answer, is that these two minutes, or is that maybe more?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1306	That's right, you have another minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1307	I would like to, perhaps, respond quickly, that Turkey's unilateral decision, Bosnia and Herzegovina, is allowed to import frozen meat and fresh chilled meat with customs duty of 0 (zero), with a quantity of 15,000 tonnes plus 1,000 tonnes so on. Curms, or processed beef. In early September, a number of farmers and farmers' associations informed the foreign trade and economic relations ministry that they could not sell their throats prepared for slaughter. So the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations... 4 months, together with other institutions, including the Veterinary Office, including entity-level inspections, launched, including, of course, the Customs Affairs Sector, launched control and control of export facilities. You know that the whole process of assigning this job is done by the Turkish side, they are investigating tenders and they are conducting all procedures, and a total of 5 export facilities, or 5 companies have received this job. The ministry paid particular attention to these five facilities and started in control in 2014, and at this point, control is being carried out for 2015. It was discovered in these findings and controls of different institutions, possible multiple irregularities in the realisation of this important job for 3 Bosnia and Herzegovina, both on the line of slaughter, i.e. in the veterinary services responsible for export facilities, but we also carried out surveillance in the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which issues certificates of Bosnian Herzegovina origin. In this sense, I also told the second House that 725 false, or falsified cattle passports in three export facilities were discovered in this control so far, but the other two are being controlled. It was also found that counterfeit ear tags were printed in one of the neighbouring countries and were intended for some export facilities that received a meat export job in Turkey. A number of failures and possible abuses have been identified by one number of persons in the customs-free export process, particularly in the absence of veterinary inspectors, the names are of course known to the Ministry, in export facilities in accordance with the prescribed procedures, in particular the non-listing of the date of slaughter, subsequent demarcation of ear tags, non-recordation of date and customs duties of imported live livestock, which opens up a space for possible abuses. The Ministry also gave the order, i.e. asked the Directorate for Direct Taxation to exercise control of the ultimate purpose of all duty-free meat quotas imported, meat imported on the basis of duty-free imports into European Commission import quotas, to determine whether there are points of contact with duty-free quotas in 2015 for meat coming from the EU with meat exports to Turkey. And we didn't get that report from the IRS. That's why, I'm being warned in time, I have this really extensive material, which is the findings and controls in progress, and at the moment there's another export facility being controlled, we're not publishing the names of these export facilities, and we'll probably end up with the most recent time and the public and, of course, the honourable MP, as soon as we finish that part of the job, we'll get the relevant information. We seek to ensure further exports of meat to Turkey in cooperation with the Turkish side in 2016 and seek to complete and conduct a parallel monitoring business in this respect. I hope you understand why at this point we don't go public with all the facilities, although the competent institutions and SIPA and the prosecution are familiar with each..., they do their part of the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1308	Thank you. Minister Šarović had a little more time. My next obligation is to ask delegate Karamatić if he is satisfied with his answer. Since the minister's from my party, I'm afraid you're not, I know he can sometimes be when you're not happy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1309	I thank Mr. Secretary for his explanation. Those controls that are being done, I expect them to be completed within the next few days. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that I be delivered precisely – in which companies have been diagnosed with shortages within 15 days, meaning that the law provides, with the warning, here I am asking the Honorable Minister to speed up this part because both our economy and Bosnia and Herzegovina because of this affair, let's say, in this year no more fanning meat has been exported to Turkey. So it is also necessary because of our partners in Turkey and because of our public here and because of the businessmen who suffer immeasurable damage to come out as soon as possible with the names of companies that have made public manipulations. So I expect a written response within 15 days. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1310	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1311	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mr Mirko Šarović, and it says – Is the traditional way of trade with the Republic of Croatia binding on Bosnia and Herzegovina even though it is not contained in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? If applied, what would be the consequences for agricultural producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Let me explain. I believe that agricultural production is one of the advantages of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which should be protected, and hence domestic production. They should have the same operating conditions as foreign producers, and quality should be decisive. The application of a duty-free quota for certain products is mainly the one which Croatia has exported to Bosnia and Herzegovina to a significant extent, which is these so-called Traditional products, such as milk, dairy products, meat processing, consumption eggs, some kinds of fruit and vegetables, would in any case have a significant impact on relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only one figure is that the EU stands out of the budget about 34% for the subsidy of production, agriculture, and entities only 3%. Domestic producers, I believe, are in a very difficult float without additional concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1312	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The word has a respected minister, Mr Mirko Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1313	Thank you. Of course, this question is a little too small for me for two minutes, and here I am choosing, looking at which of which to choose as an answer, but perhaps the simplest. Bosnia and Herzegovina has not adopted the principles of traditional trade in negotiations with the European Commission so far, and perhaps that is the most important. The basis for negotiations is Article 37. The SSP. This also calls on the European Commission and it is said that consultations will be held between the parties regarding the Agreement referred to in Article 1.2 of this Article only when it is requested on other relevant issues relating to their trade policies towards third countries, particularly in the event of the accession of a third country to the Union, such consultations will be held in order to ensure that the mutual interests of the Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina listed in this Agreement are taken into account. This is the basis, the term traditional trade is not mentioned anywhere in the Agreement, although the European Commission, as regards the adaptation of bilateral agreements, signed with some other countries, argues that it is a practice that can be seen from publicly available EU documents. But so far, the negotiators of Bosnia and Herzegovina have stood by, and such a negotiating position has been accepted so far, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not obliged to join the negotiating position in a way that accepts the principle of traditional trade. 5 You have provided some details, they are important, perhaps I should say, that in agriculture in related activities it does close to 50% of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that 340,000 agricultural households are registered, which is 28% of the total number of households in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The number of employees in agricultural activities in 2014 was 139.000, which is 17% of the total number of employees. Also, if Bosnia and Herzegovina were to implement the technical adjustment process in accordance with the methodology and scope required by the European Commission, it would specifically mean that customs quotas which had not existed before for the duty-free imports of these products into Bosnia and Herzegovina from any EU Member State were to be opened not only to Croatia, but also to all other countries. Given that products of vital importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy depend on the production and processing of which thousands of households depend, the possibility of placing these products on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market under preferential customs treatment could, according to analyses, have very negative effects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the end, it is over 50,000 tonnes at the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Brussels, that milk and dairy products are required to import more than 30,000 tonnes, of which only 17,000 tonnes of milk, somewhere 12-13 000 meat and meat products, that the current overpriced, or the burden of milk coming from the EU is close to 50 fening, which means if the duty-free imports of these 17,000 tonnes in the start of liters of milk in Bosnia and Herzegovina would be cheaper for 50 fening. Hence, it is a difficult position for Bosnia and Herzegovina and there must be solutions for such a situation, either in negotiations with the European Commission or to provide funds within Bosnia and Herzegovina to, as only milkers would come into a very hopeless situation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1314	Thank you, Mr. Šarović. Obviously, every issue is a part of the agenda for itself at the session, perhaps with some initiatives to move this House along. Mr. Rodić, are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1315	Thank you. Well, it might be a part of the agenda, but I'm perfectly happy with the answer and I'm asking to be delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1316	Thank you, Mr. Rodić, of course. The word has the next delegate, it is the distinguished delegate Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1317	Since in every country, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, health care is something that should be on the list of absolute priorities for the population, because only a healthy person can function and create new values, because the people say – there is only one thing wrong with a healthy one, and a sick one, or vice versa. And what interests me is that these days, following in 6 Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would say a little alarmingly, it says that Bosnia and Herzegovina is before the spread of the AH1N1 infection or so on. Porcine flu, and that there is a danger that a Zika, a dangerous Zika virus, appears in Bosnia and Herzegovina, interests me, and I am asking the question of the Minister of Civil Affairs, although he is aware of what the Ministry of Civil Affairs is and what objectively in implementing many measures in the field of health can do to us, if they are in a position to collect and give data – Is Bosnia and Herzegovina really at the request of the AH1N1 epidemic? Secondly, how many people have suffered and how many have died in Bosnia and Herzegovina since this flu, how many are in hospitals, and whether, according to statistics or better to the global health analysis, which these days, I would say, is an intensive consideration of the question of the dangerous Zik Zik, is there any danger and is there any indication that any patient in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been ill or is under hospital treatment from this disease? What is the reason for all of my questions is it seems to me that it is necessary, so perhaps the BiH Parliament and other bodies, to consider what preventions are in these areas so that we will not be showered with such possible epidemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1318	Thank you, too, Mr. Nović. The word has a respected minister, Mr Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1319	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, esteemed delegates of the House of Peoples. By way of a task force to report on the surveillance of influenza in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs co-ordinates the lines of responsibility related to the improvement of epidemiological surveillance on the movement of the group and other respiratory infections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Guided by the World Health Organization, members of the Working Group are constantly and daily sharing information. The number of sick, dead, hospitalized persons on the day 08 February 2016 is as follows: 1. Number of patients – 19.496, cases that by definition correspond to flu or flu-like disease; 2. Number of dead persons - two. The Republika Srpska Institute of Public Health reported two fatalities, one of which is positive for the AH1N1 influenza virus while the other is awaiting laboratory confirmation. The Public Health Institute of the Federation of BiH has not received reports of death caused by the influenza virus, although two cases have been reported in the media; 3. Number of hospitalized persons – 31. The number of cases reported is significantly lower than in the same period last year, while the rate of visits to offices due to diseased similar flus is also lower compared to the same period last season. An increased number of positive samples on influenza virus indicates increased activity but does not exceed the epidemic threshold. When it comes to the Zika virus, the risk of travellers infected with a virus coming to Europe is increasing. Importual cases have been reported in several countries of Europe. The World Health Organisation contacted Bosnia and Herzegovina by delivering a set of recommendations on increased surveillance and control strategies over religiously transmitted diseases. The World Health Organization does not recommend travel and trade restrictions. In theory, the possibility of further spreading the infection from such imported cases within Europe, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, is there, since the tiger mosquito carrying the Zik virus today is domesticated in 7 many parts of Europe, primarily around the Mediterranean, which means that it has it in us and in neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1320	I thank Mr. Osmanović. Mr. Nović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1321	I think it can be satisfied with the answer, which is quite understandable that the data is presented as it is. What puts the dilemma ahead of us all is that apparently the Federal Institute of Health did not find that in the Federation, any of the AH1N1 viruses died, although we read in the media that in several places in Zenica and Sarajevo, a number of people died from this virus. But the data is what it is and we have to accept it. I think it's a key to prevention and what the minister said especially when it comes to knowing who is the cause of the dangerous Zika Zik that we should take care of the time we're going into – spring and summer, so we don't get caught up in the snow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1322	Thank you too, Mr. Nović. I note that delegate Ljilja Zovko has asked a question in written form of the Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH, which is in accordance with Article 158(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and forwarded to them, so the answer will be given to the distinguished delegate as soon as it is available to us. Now we're going to the session agenda. For the 14th session, I propose the following amended: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1/15, since 27.02.2015; 3. Proposal for a strike law for BiH institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-24/15, 13.11.2015 and 10.12.2015; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-125/15, of 10.12.2015; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-30/15, of 22.12.2015 and 01.02-02-1-30-1/15, of 11/01/2016; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-36/15, of 28.12.2015; 8 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-38/15, 30.12.2015 and 28.01.2016; 8. Report by the Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 06/08/2015), issue: 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 02.02.2016; 9. Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, applicant: European Commission, number: 01,02-06-1538/15, of 03.12.2015; 10. Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers Reform Agenda, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-50-11-1383/15, of 28.10.2015; 11. Report on the realisation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013 and Report on issued documents for external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2014, delivered by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01.02-03-1489/15, since 24.11.2015; 12. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Transparency of work in BiH institutions”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1-1271/15, since 07.10.2015; 13. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Command of Customs Terminals”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/4-16-1548/15, of 07.12.2015; 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement a procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-14-1654/15, since 31.12.2015; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of acts of the World Postal Federation (UNU) adopted at the 25th UPU Congress held in 2012 in Doha (General Regulation of the World Postal Federation, World Postal Convention, Final Protocol with the World Postage Convention and the Postal Financial Services Agreement), No 01,02-05-21546/15, of 07.12.2015; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on the establishment of a framework for Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in European Union crisis management operations, No: 01,02-05-2-39/16, since 04.01.2016; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council relating to regular air traffic, No: 01,02-05-2-40/16, from 04.01.2016; 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on co-operation in the field of telecommunications, No. 01.02-05-2-217/16, since 15.01.2016; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on co-operation in the field of environmental protection and sustainable development, No. 01.02-05-2-218/16, since 15.01.2016. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Since this is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples, unless there are changes and additions, we move to work on this agenda. 9 We move to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the record from the 13th session. Thank you. In the first round of 13 delegates, 13 voted in favour, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 8 for, from Republika Srpska 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For almost a year, I have been waiting for an opportunity to address you on this matter and for this reason I am deeply grateful to those in the Commission and the College who have finally made this possible. They are citizens, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have asked for a complete removal of white bread, and most of us have come out with those promises. According to this House of Representatives, the vast majority, even in March last year with only 3 votes against, this bill and supported. There is no need to overly remind of the justification of the move, white bread" is literally a fee for unhappiness and is given, only because someone has performed a privileged function at a given time. Malten, all of us here, all of us here and the maltenes, all of us sitting in the first two rows of this room, are entitled to that fee, and I remind you that we all have the power to finally end it. And that's why I'm asking you to join us from the House of Representatives to do it. I will also look very briefly at a particular argument that has emerged that white bread cannot or should not be abolished because of certain restrictions on activities after the mandate which, and 10 that these restrictions require the existence of white bread. I therefore asked the BiH Parliamentary Assembly research sector to conduct a comprehensive study on EU practice on white bread and employment restrictions after the term of office. And I thank the expressive sector for these extremely high-quality studies, which is usually their practice of doing it so well. In any case, the indicator clearly shows some countries do not have white bread, but they have restrictions on employment after the term of office, some have white bread and restrictions, but nowhere does the period of receiving white bread match the period of restrictions, on the contrary, the restrictions are always longer than the duration of white bread. In any case, the fact that restrictions in Bosnia and Herzegovina... have nothing to do with white bread. When people enter into politics they know very well that six months after the term of office they will not be able to carry out a very small number of activities, it is indeed a very short list, and by entering politics they know that when their mandate ends they will have these very short, very small restrictions. But the fact that restrictions currently last for 6 months and white bread for a year, according to our laws, shows that there is absolutely no connection between these two issues and that it is only an excuse for those who do not want white bread to be abolished. I therefore ask you again to join the House of Representatives, both on behalf of the promoter and on behalf of the Alliance for a Better Future that proposed this, please join the House of Representatives and that this really inadmissible fee, taking circumstances in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is finally lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1326	Thank you, too, Mr. Arnaut. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No applications for participation in the discussion, sorry, I don't have a review, please technical service I don't have a review in the monitor, the application of a respected colleague, Bariša Čolak. So, the word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1327	Dear fellow envoys and envoys of the House of Peoples. I know it's not popular to say anything the opposite of what an esteemed colleague has said a little bit, but I will, for the sake of pure, uh, principles because I don't think it's good to change a lot, and at the same time not to look at all the issues as comprehensive. Namely, I'm just going to call on what we changed, so before, what, two months ago, I think at the 11th month that it was. Now we have a terrible problem with a judicial exam and a professional administrative exam. I warned, however, I have a feeling you weren't listening. And now we've completely questioned holding a state-level judicial exam. That's a fact. So, in order for you not to think that I am against this issue being settled, I am that this issue is settled in one systematic way, in a comprehensive way, and I say right away – I am for a restrictive, therefore for a restrictive approach when it comes to extended working-law status. But the fact that we have a negative opinion from the Ministry of Finance to the fact that we have a completely different approach when it comes to the law proposed by the Ministry of Finance, given the fact and one restrictive provision of Article 5. The Law on conflict of interest, and we cannot without bringing it into line with the amendments and additions to this Act, when we consider the provision of Article 9(2). The Constitution of BiH and, in the light of the fact that this Law deletes only the provision of Article 48 of this Law, while not touching the provisions of Article 30(1)c and Article 39a), I cannot really support the amendments to this Act. Especially because we can really settle this issue in times that are ahead of us in a way that will last long, in one way that will be comprehensive, and I don't think that this approach does us any good, or creates legal uncertainty. And I don't think that's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1328	Thank you too, Mr. Čolak. My dear colleague, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1329	Nice to meet you. I'm a member of the Committee and I'm obliged to explain why I was against, or I wasn't in the agenda of this agenda, this point. It happened yesterday, less than 24 hours before this session. In principle, I'm not about to wait around the corner with the material, and if I had no idea, I wasn't prepared, I had a session of the Seven Points Committee, which are on the agenda today, I had a chance to prepare myself, and then it was said at the session that this was urgent, that it had to be put on the agenda today, and I don't know why. I was thinking if it were today..., here today if it had been published in "The Official Messenger" this Law could have been valid in the period, it would have been valid, in the period 2018–2022. These white breads are over this year. Secondly, we've all heard on television, I'm sorry there's no such thing as the Ministry of Finance, that they've prepared a bill and that it's returned to the Ministry because of some technical interference, and that this law, as we as the Commission asked the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers to deliver the system law, will be very quickly in the procedure. Now, is that why we're in a hurry to get in there quickly with this, so when the one who's coming, who we've been looking for from the Ministry of Finance, he won't even matter anymore. ...was thinking why it was. Secondly, I am not here, I am a member of the HDZ of BiH, but, as it says here, I am an envoy of the House of Peoples and I am not here to keep the promises of the day I do not know who. I also don't see any respected MPs from the House of Representatives coming from Canton Tuzla or Sarajevo, no matter what, they might come out of Sarajevo a little bit, if they went to those people where they lie and starved, who never once said they didn't mind having white bread solved during this period, and they'll get rid of it, I agree with my colleague Bariša, but they ask where is that black bread they earned, and someone took it from them and I can't retire. I don't know what that is. No one's going to see them, and today the paper on the front page says no one's going to see them, so let them check them out. The promises I made, which I have to keep, and I cannot, and I will see if we can do it in four years as an envoy of the Croatian people, is that my people will also have the right to listen to public television in Croatian. That's what I promised. Will the other one back me up so I can keep the promise I made? I have to ask others to let me vote for something that I'm entitled to, but... I'm not ad hoc, I'm not putting in a sudden agenda point. I want to make a deal, I absolutely agree that there's a white bread issue to be solved, I don't care, I don't care, I've done my business with my firm, my school where I worked 35 years, that I'll go back to school, and I'll go back to school if my health serves me. No, I don't care what's wrong with the white bread. I'm more interested in that black one and everything else I promised. So I was against this sudden insertion point, because I don't know what's behind it, and today I'll be against it, until the law comes out of the Treasury. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1330	Replica, dear colleague, Mr. Safet Softić. Here you go, Mr. Softić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1331	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests. I responded to the replica in view of the fact that, in the discussion of my colleague, Džambas, in some way, I felt called, since yesterday as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, I proposed that the Finance and Budget Committee be included in the agenda of my session of this session of the agenda and that it be a mandatory point for today's meeting of the House of Nations today. So it's not about any stakeouts, it's not about any, uh, hidden intentions when it comes to this, it's just about respecting the Rules of Procedure and what has so far been treated as a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, we've already heard, and here I am going to do it again here today, on February 26th last year, in the House of Representatives, this Law was passed. In March of last year, in the third month, the Constitutional Commission of our House established the competent authority in charge of this Law, and we have been in a position since March of last year to set deadlines for the agenda of this Law. We tried, what my colleague Jambas said, we tried both as a Commission and as a College to respect the need to sort out this issue in a way, and in July last year we commissioned the Council of Ministers to offer full amendments and additions to this Act within 90 days. That deadline expired in September of last year and from September to today, here you can simply add the amount of that, what months it is. Meanwhile, in the summer of last year, we also received an emergency from the House of Representatives, which is why this issue is not being put on the agenda of the House of Peoples, and we all know what this issue means in public and how and how the public treats this issue. So, yesterday, I felt the need for the Finance and Budget Commission, this morning at the College, to take down the mortgage from the People's House that something strange was happening here and that we were, in a way, slowing down the adoption of this Law, only, what our obligation was to do in business, had derailed the possibility of this Law being found in parliamentary procedure. Of course, anyone who believes that amendments should work on this Law will have the opportunity to do so, since this is the first reading. And in that sense, therefore, I want to kind of replicate that there are no hidden intentions, it's simply a matter of business obligations that we all owe here, which we sit, to respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1332	Thank you too, Mr. Softić. A word further for the discussion was reported by a distinguished colleague, Mr Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1333	Of course I reported it, it's funny when someone starts lying to themselves, it's legitimate in particular in politics for us to have someone lie to the public, to lie to coalition partners, political opponents, but why not say, this is about one populist law. We had similar discussions here a few months ago, I don't know now exactly which date, when we passed the Law on the ban on receiving fees for working on committees employed in institutions. It would be terribly interesting to see how much savings have been achieved, I'll tell you myself, zero. Because now all of those 13 sessions are scheduled at 8:00 in the morning, at 5:00 in the evening, they are held at 3:00 in the morning, but the minutes there are listed and there are no savings. This sounds nice and that's why this is going into procedure, and it's nice to tell people, here at this point we're not tanging here, so according to Mr. Arnaut's proposal to none of us sitting in this House of Parliament is going to be a refund for white bread, but that sounds nice, we're going to end it. I'm asking you how? We need to change the Constitution, we need 2/3, changing the Constitution isn't populism, it's a serious job. We have a constitution that someone on the side has imposed on us, found three, four, five scrolls that signed it in Dayton, and now we're sticking to it. We can't change him for 20 years, and now we're going to change the Constitution because someone has come to think that white bread should be abolished. On the other hand, I listen to distinguished colleagues here praise certain ministers, individual MPs, individual initiatives, read in the media the other day someone chatted in BHANSA 400 thousand marks, caved in a man. Just before, someone from the foreign ministry was bailing out of a bank of 50,000 marks, kidnapped him in the street saying a bag, a dime... with 50,000 marks on Sarajevo to walk. People break in, for 100 marks they break into bookies, into shops, we deal with issues that matter, which are enforceable, okay. I'm saying, this is about one populist law that needs to be used to get political points, yes, it's actually not going to be possible to implement this without changing the Constitution. If we're going to change the Constitution, let's sit down and talk about Mr. Sejdić and Finci, let's talk about the Electoral Law, let's talk about all this, and let's change the Constitution, and we'll end the white crown," that's not the problem either. I'm saying, in this House, we don't get tangled up, but to be honest with a laugh like this, just to say, "Here I am and I did it, I can't vote." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1334	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr Dragutin Rodić's esteemed colleague has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1335	Honorable chairman, colleagues and colleagues delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Since I'm a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, and I don't feel the need to justify what I voted yesterday, to put it on the agenda, but I want to say a few facts. Since I have dealt with this problem for a very long time as chairman of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs in the past term and work now through the Commission on Finance and Budget and, of course, the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, we must be honest with ourselves and say that we have many issues that have been opened and that we have not managed to solve in a system way so far and to come up with that effect that I believe that we are all here in the House of Nations. Dear counterpart Karamatić said that, among other things, we should change the BiH Constitution, and that is true, Article 9(2). The BiH Constitution, which implicitly says there is no current mandate, etc. But I need to meet you that and it's stopped at the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives has also adopted amendments and additions to the Constitution, Article 9 of Article 2 and that's somewhere in the House of Peoples, and we know who we are, often these questions have been asked on the Constitutional Commission, etc. I also want to say to the public that I have decided to vote that this point is on the agenda today which I believe the Commission has done everything it has to do to get to some steps, to come up with some sort of solution that will be systemic, etc. As the Commission, we discussed almost every session on these topics, which formally, which informally, looking for a way out of this situation. One of the exits was 14 and 90 days to get rid of it systemically. And I didn't believe it then, because this act that we got, too, is re-amendments to the Law on wages and fees in the institutions of the system, and if you look at how it's proposed, it seems to me that it's not consistent, and it seems to me that we're going to have a problem still. The Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs in the previous meeting held a regional meeting with representatives of all parliaments and administrative committees from the region and beyond, we discussed all these issues. And, of course, the key thing is to solve this in an integrated manner and solve it in a way that will systemically solve it and not constantly withdraw the questions of rights and duties and the status of delegates and MPs. For these reasons, I believe that Dom is the only body to make the final decision and that it should no longer be in the Commission. Let the House surrender by the conscience of every MP. And, of course, during these stages, it will be possible to make certain remarks and amendments and to come up with certain solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1336	Thank you too, Mr. Rodić. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1337	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored present. I think we should still get back to field procedures. And given that, the most important thing is that the legitimate legislator of the law, it's important whether the law is populist or whether it's like this, it's in that sense irrelevant. It can be a relationship between our specific quality assessment law, improving whether it could have been better, and that's right, but we are at this point, we have a law that was proposed by a legitimate promoter, that's a fact. Furthermore, we have a Rules of Procedure which is very clear and this Rules of Procedure foresees mandatory points of the agenda, provides for very clear business deadlines for the examination of the law at the Constitutional Commission for constitutional basis, for the examination of the law in the competent commission, in the amendment phase, etc. As already said in March of last year, the Law has assessed that there is constitutional basis and consistency with the legal system and after that, the competent commission has had 10 days to consider the Law as a competent commission. It was only in the seventh month that the commission, for these reasons, considered, and adopted the conclusion that another 90 days were waiting for the Council of Ministers to propose a systematic solution. I don't know if the commission asked for the college's consent, I didn't find those documents, but it was due, and the College could have given that extension, but it expired in the ninth month. After the ninth month we are in an anti-business situation, breaking the Rules of Procedure. And that's the most important thing right now, and I thank the College for having returned to the Rules of Procedure today. Of course, our relationship with any proposal, including this law, is a question of whether it's the perfect solution, whether it's optimal, whether it's better, and of course we show it through the amendment phase. But I beg you, therefore, to bear in mind that nothing beyond respecting the Rules of Procedure can be seen, nor should I look, nor do I see any other intentions, no hidden intentions. Simply what it means to have hidden intentions insisting on respecting the Rules of Procedure. So, we need to bring this procedure to an end, we need to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I say in phase two, everyone has the right to state both about the Law and his opinion and his own solution. The second thing, the Council of Ministers is working on a bill that will fully regulate this area, there is no problem. No matter how we plead this, we accept, we refuse, when this new solution comes fully we will plead on that solution. This new solution can fully respect the current law, the solutions so far, or it can completely ignore the existing solutions, and this amendment. So this, our relationship to this issue does not prevent the Council of Ministers, nor does it in any way affect solutions of a whole, systematic nature around this area, which the Council of Ministers should already offer a long time ago. So, I think, I think it would be good to get on the field of procedure, on the field of Rules of Procedure, and when we get to the amendment, when we get to the second reading, or when we get to the principle of the Law, that then, of course, with full legitimate law, every relationship to it, according to that Law, is what the law thinks, or how it thinks it should be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1338	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1339	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't think it's disputed here that all the envoys for the manifestation of responsibility when it comes to social sensitivity and dimension and the importance of this issue, I don't see anyone against in this House being responsible for the overall social, economic situation and showing sensitivity of the highest legislative body. But I answered for one other thing, so with the procedure that Mr. Genjac was now talking about, and returning to that field, I would return to the field of responsibility. Who's responsible for why there's no complete legal solution ahead of us here... Is that the position or opposition, here's Mr. Softić's question? Why we don't have, that's when... this summer the proposal goes to this day, and why we're constantly in a situation where ad hoc solutions eat some sort of legal solution and not completely solve it. I think the Council of Ministers is responsible, uh, and most of them in both homes. We are representatives of clubs from our people, but we also belong to certain political options that are not at the same time in a position to make decisions like this has the possibility of a position. So, you gentlemen are responsible for why there is no complete solution to the law which is the only correct solution and which actually reduces the space for manipulation, both with this and with other issues, although this issue, of course, needs to be settled businessly. Here, that's why I picked up my word, and it's time we didn't transfer the ball to the Rules of Procedure's field now, but to the field of political responsibility. What about the whole solution that is necessary for this country and that needs to be done so right in such a way that people are not demoted to come to Sarajevo tomorrow. Well, who's coming, here I'm asking you, from which ends if you can't properly and thanks to this work and the contributions of all the bodies that you need to function, not just for the judicial exam and the judiciary, but we have x-rays of other things. We need one kind of correct approach, complete. And of course we need to solve this issue, we need to show social sensitivity. I respect MPs' initiatives, but it's also time to make it responsible for those who have the opportunity and responsibility to propose the law and have the majority and that we get it fine here and not manipulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1340	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Safet Softić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1341	Well, I don't know why my colleague Raguž asks me a direct question like this, but if he's already asking me, I will, of course, agree with him and say that I feel the Council of Ministers is responsible too because we don't have a complete solution to the amendments and addition of this Act or that the Council of Ministers has not offered a whole new law. But we're not in an unsettled legal area when it comes to this. So here we can look back at the procedures, we can look at the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has been going on since March of last year, and we can't hide behind some other things if we want to say that we don't have a political stance on this issue or that we're basically against this, and we're actually up to something else. What is the difference between this law and the law that Karamatić proposed on Swiss? So anyone sitting in this hall could object to a colleague named Karamatić that he is proposing populist laws since we all know the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina when this issue is on the agenda. But it wasn't, it wasn't an obstacle to support, uh, the proposal of a colleague of Karamatić to try these unfortunate people, even this way we do it, through various bypasses, by borrowing entity governments to make a statement about this and everything else. We can't, therefore, defend ourselves from doing populist things if this is, as my colleague Genjac said, if it's regular in the procedure of an authorised promoter. We have an obligation as a House to plead this out, that obligation goes on since March last year, I don't know why we're going back to some other things now when it comes to this law. The simplest things are very simple, the Council of Ministers needed and was given the responsibility of the Finance and Budget Commission, it was given the responsibility of the Joint College of both homes to do this. Why didn't we ask that Council of Ministers when they were present here and the chairman and finance minister, but at this point we have no reason to put this in any other shoreland. So everyone has as a delegate the right to plead on this issue the way they want to, we're all aware that there are certain shortcomings present in this legislative project, but we'll fix that when the time comes for amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1342	Thank you, Mr. Softić. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1343	So, I did not dispute the Rules of Procedure, I said that the procedures and putting on the table of this proposal should be added to the question of responsibility, and I did not dispute one word of what you have just said, Mr. Softić, nor did this concern you at all, but it did refer to the fact, therefore, that you are articulating here as the College of the majority responsible for the establishment of the parliamentary majority through executive power, which is the Council of Ministers. And, uh, so there was no personal reason, but in this whole story, you have to enter that dimension, and I don't think you can dispute that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1344	Thank you too, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1345	My colleague Tadić has a word. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1346	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is how when we talk in this way we actually see how much there is influence on the work of the House of Peoples and on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And one of these influences is certainly such that the logic of the lives of our political parties, expectations and everything else on today in the circumstances in which people living in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not the same logic that led to the adoption of these regulations currently in force. And that's where we need to see what we're doing in this way, what kind of message we're leaving. So there is no dispute here that such a bill at this stage will get most of it, because this is one, as the popular or populist question is quoted, but at the same time it is a question concerning social justice itself as the voter in Bosnia and Herzegovina understands today. Where's the trap in all this? Is this how you get rid of anything? No, I don't. The same people who expect the people who work in the common bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Republika Srpska, in the Federation of BiH to show that they suffer the consequences of policies that have brought the economic situation into this state, are actually asking us for one thing before all of this, which is the thing that essentially brings this society out of a period of transition and drags into that period of stable democratic, so let me also say capitalist society that started in the 1990s, it's the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets. So, the law on the investigation of the origin of property that will finally get us out of the transition period and show that it is not worth taking away from the people, so regardless of whether you are discovered, is something that brings justice back to this society and provides for the functioning of the rule of law, faith in the rule of law. All of this so far is to throw some kind of bait into the public, which serves to make those who have truly become rich, steal this people, who today are millionaires, and even billionaires, the burden of their responsibilities as members of society, as bearers of some very influential positions in criminal circles, so they transfer to the field the responsibility of politicians. Politicians are responsible, too. But where's the absurd? Such provisions as we now have, which we inherited, have nothing to do with them, we try to balance them to be normal, to be related to the issue of social justice that we have, and we think of it as being the same as the people who chose us, it's quite clear, so these provisions were adopted precisely in the period when there was the intention of reducing corruption by the better material status of the government's perpetrators. So to say, you have a salary that is more than decent and far above average, so don't steal, and don't give any tycoon the opportunity to bring corruption into existence by means of you interests that aren't within the limits of the law. A few generations have spent that chance without caring about corruption. And now we're paying the bill, and we have nothing to do with it, now the bell's on us. I will remind you of a time before that, MPs also in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and in the Federal Parliament, and in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and even members of governments, and boards of directors, and Council of Ministers, etc., these were, I say, more than..., I don't know if the MP had a stamp, I don't know in some wartime, or 15, or 20, or 100 after the war. And then there was the conclusion -- these people are under the influence of the tycoon because they have no material independence. They got material independence, they got great salaries, but still, unfortunately, they remained well under the influence of tycoon, criminals, who privatized and ruined the score of everything that exists in this country. And we're going to adopt this now, and are we going to solve the essential question? Are we going to act as a Parliamentary Assembly now so that we will say – well, the situation has come to the conclusion that responsibility is being transferred here for something that we are not really responsible for, let's now pass such laws as have not been passed in the past generations, which have not been passed on to criminals, tycoons, multimillionaires, who have become rich in the coat of arms of the people, by privatising businesses from "Energoinvest“ in Sarajevo to, I don't know, this "Čajavec" in Banja Luka and everything else, are we going to make laws that will examine the origin of 18 of their property. Or, some of us, we'll run to them and say, "Look, we vote for what we do to calm down these social tensions, so that they don't burn this or that and come home because you have, and others don't, so now give us a thousand or two, to make up for what we lost, and let us hire you when we're out of office, and we'll listen to you for four years and vote whatever you say, so that your 100 million will become 200 million. We always go back to the same question – did they have the will for the rule of law or not? Neither the rule of law nor social justice, nor anything here will come from any individual solution to any law, can come only from the law and into the investigation of the origin of the property. Someone liked it or didn't like it, broke the Constitution or didn't break it, hit it directly or someone else, gone, people, without it. Now, for today, I guess the people will be pleased with what we're about to adopt, but I call upon the people to come tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, and to continue this pressure, and the media above all, until we adopt the law on the investigation of the origins of property, so that all those who wish to govern politics and political ideas, and to hide themselves in luxury villas, palaces, and on yachts, know that such a state-law system is able to defend themselves and the people who choose it. That's my suggestion. And, of course, as far as we're concerned, the technical solutions concerning this law are not at all controversial, and in such a way that they adapt to existing regulations because, above all, the question of the dignity of this Parliament is the harmonisation of the rules and that they are uniform. In that sense, we, as the Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly, called on the finance minister and he positively responded after a certain time, sending this proposal which he has, which is currently in the process, which is systemically resolving. But also, Mr. Genjac, so any of the delegates could at any time ask to be placed on the agenda. Why did the College follow this rhythm? So, first of all, you have the fact that this Law does not in any way affect the acquired rights of people who have already exercised the right to extended working-law status. So no one would be interrupted. And the question of days or 15 days didn't mean anything, so in that sense, the College of the House of Nations did not in any way benefit anyone here in the procedure or harm anyone. We've been taking care of trying to find a system solution that's ahead of us, but of course we're in a phase now that, perhaps even in terms of pressure, to find this system solution, there's this action that people understand that we want to make this story real by the end. Thank you. If there are no further applications for the hearing, we shall proceed to the plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 9 delegates against four delegates, 1 delegate was abstained. From Federation 4 to, 4 against and 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 5 to. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the draft law amending the Law on Salary and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. We're going to work on the next item of the agenda, that's point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on strike of employees in BiH institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill, so the first debate is being held on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the legislative and legal sector of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission accepted the principles of the bill's proposal and found that the proposal for a law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has found that the bill is not fully in line with 19 Single Rules for the establishment of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, at the 17th session held on 10.12.2015, the College of the House of Peoples was in accordance with Article 95(6). The Rules of Procedure, referred to the Proposer a letter and the opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the observed shortcomings in the draft law on strike of employees in BiH institutions. On 10.12.2015, the Proposer submitted a new text of the bill. At the 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the draft law in a second reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Halid Genjac, if he wishes. It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. It's like the proposal. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the proposal for a law on strike of employees in BiH institutions in the first reading. Mrs. Zovko, are you looking for a re-election? Of course, we'll make it happen. Please provide a repeat vote for technical reasons. Mr. Babalj, do you want a repeat vote? I warn you it's the strike law, that someone doesn't pull out once that you haven't voted in. You're looking for another vote. Third repeat, second repeat and final vote, please begin. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour. From Federation 8, Republika Srpska 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the draft law on strike of employees in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1351	Thank you. 21 During the debate on the Law and at the House of Representatives, and on constitutional committees, certain errors were observed in the bill's proposal, and then it was requested that those errors be made, so is that too. However, instead of the text of the proposed Law being corrected and delivered to the procedure, the ministry was responsible for responding to the amendments to the proposed Law. And here we have a little problem. I would ask the Ministry to propose or any delegate, that it has in mind that the proposing or any other delegate may act on amendments only after the adoption of the law in the first reading, and that, as of this moment, deadlines for amendments are under way and I ask you to renew the amendments to the Law. You do now, because we are defacto now in a position to vote on the proposed text of the law. Be careful, you have proposed the text of the Law to which the objection was made, on 22.01. you have responded to amendments to the Law, amendments to the proposed Law, and it has not yet been considered. It was only we who considered it on the Constitutional Commission and it was only today that it was adopted in the first reading. I mean, I hope we understand each other. So today we vote conditionally, conditionally voting for the Law in the proposed form, believing and assuming that amendments will be submitted in good time and that we will accept those amendments. It is one of the major amendments, it is one of the amendments that referred to the question whether each MP has the right to consult or only members of the College, so it has been clarified, etc. So that situation is, it's termologically and chronologically, that we have that in mind and that we have that in mind both in the record and in the conduct of the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1352	Thank you, too, Mr. Genjac. We take this to the knowledge of this, I mean, there's no suggestion of a conclusion, of something to give.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1353	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1354	Good, we're aware and we've seen a mistake that's technical. Is anyone else answering for a word? No further reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the bill. Shall we move on to a plea? Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates voted in favour, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 8 for, from Republika Srpska 5 for. There is also a general and entity majority, so I agree with the Amendments and Supplements Act adopted. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples 22 of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Nationals' Constitutional Legal Commission found that the bill was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The joint defence and security commission of BiH has accepted the principles of the bill. The legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has found that the bill is not fully in line with the Single Rules for making legal rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. On 11 January 2016, the Proposer submitted a new text of the Bill's proposal. At the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2015, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading. I give the word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH has designated as rapporteur at the House of Peoples's session if it wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the word to the legislator. No demands. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9, from Republika Srpska 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment has been adopted. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I think this is a very important law. I've read it carefully, but I think there are some other shortcomings that need to be removed or removed in the amendment phase, or some more amendments to the law. We have here a law that regulates Bosnia and Herzegovina's largest economic giant. So, associations, i.e. The non-governmental sector, the foundations, is the largest employer and most of the money in this small country, means more than any budget. And what's interesting is they don't have to file tax reports, they don't have to be responsible for anyone's financial business, and what's in the eyes is that they can be entrusted by the competent authority to exercise public authority, either with intelligence and intelligence activities, economic, such or such. I think it's on the other side of my mind, and I'll be free to announce some more amendments and amendments to this law. Because, look here, it's about associations. So anyone, three men meet and form an association. When they founded the association, they were then empowered to oversee Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign trade traffic. Let's just say they're not obliged to file a financial report on how they did it, how much money they split, but imagine still getting tax breaks for it. I think that certain amendments and yet additional legislative solutions to this Act can, slightly speaking, save a huge amount of money, of course, leave these fees for volunteer work and so on, but I say these individual reliefs, it's not normal for political parties, for example, except that they have a huge responsibility to the electoral body, they pass, here downstairs we have just the Central Election Commission, has a presentation, and we all come from political parties and we know how many our parties have passed financial audits in their business. We know how many fines they've paid for the lack of a 5-10 KM bill. And this is about a sector that, not millions, but hundreds of millions of overruns, and other than, I'm saying, they're not obliged at all to deliver financial reports to anyone, not even to the IRS, but we can empower them that they, that some association, for example, is now for the sake of the three of us, are establishing an association and the Council of Ministers empower us to do business in the jurisdiction of the IRS. That's what the law says. I don't think that's normal, and I'm gonna try to get it back to normal. I expect to have the support of distinguished colleagues and colleagues in this House when we do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1358	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Is anyone else answering for word? No further reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on this Law in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 delegates were against 3, abstentioned no one. From Federation 9 to, against no one, abstentioned no one, from Republika Srpska 2 to and 3 against. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point eight, 24 Ad. 8. Report by the Joint Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-12/15, of 06/08/2015) At the 13th session, held on 30.12.2015, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House adopted the Three Amendment Asylum Act. At the 21st session, held on 29.10.1905, the House of Representatives adopted the Asylum Act with a total of six amendments. Since the Law was adopted in a different course compared to the House of Representatives, the House of the Peoples named the Joint Commission for the Consensation of the Text of the Law: Halid Genjac, Ljilja Zovko and Dragutin Rodić. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the said Law at the meeting held on 02.02.2016 reached agreement on the identical text of the Asylum Act as adopted at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and drew up a report on which we are to declare today. The Joint Commission proposes to the House to adopt the report and adopt the single text of the Asylum Act adopted by the Joint Commission. I give my word to Mr Halid Genjac, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House session, if it pleases. He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1360	Thank you. Since it is a very important law and the adoption of today’s Report, we will adopt an extremely significant Law. I want to, to point out the fact that it's long been done on the law, that in my opinion it's an extremely high-quality job. There were a lot of amendments in the optics, one number accepted. I think the amendments adopted and the Law itself fully reflect the ability and capacity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions to implement such a demanding law. And I note that after discussions and statements on the amendments, which were disputed between the two homes, the entire Commission voted in favour of all six members from one home and another in favour of the text of the Law that was adopted at the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1361	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No further admissions. We're moving on to a plea. Mr. Nović, do you want us to repeat the vote or is that a mistake? I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9, from Republika Srpska 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I am finding a report by the Joint Commission on both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act was adopted. 25 We move to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, submitr: European Commission You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission accepted the report and adopted the following conclusions: 1. We propose that Koelgijum and both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's agenda include a review of the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. We suggest to the colleges of homes that the 2015 report on Bosnia and Herzegovina is presented by a delegation representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to ensure the presence of the chairman and members of the Council of BiH. At the 23rd session, held on 21 January 2016, the House of Representatives received the Report. I give the word to the Reporter, if he's present, and he's been informed, right? We, therefore, have shown good will, but there is no representative. I'm opening a debate on this report. Here you go. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1363	Thank you. No matter what is not here, the presence of key people from the Council of Ministers, and I think that because of the importance and importance of this item of the agenda, they should have ensured presence, because the debate at one of the two equal homes on this EU key body on Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not know what should be more important than this, frankly. But here, we as advocates should articulate our position on the very important assessments that have been made in this report, so I'm just going to short out some. The first thing I'm trying to say is that this is a x-ray, a precise x-ray, a scand state in all important areas as far as Bosnia and Herzegovina has reached, at what level of standards, where weaknesses and failures and what priorities, and how to solve, and the launch and acceleration of the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be seen. In this regard, I would like to say this, so I would not now return to what I was saying and confirm the correctness of the institute of responsibility in this House, especially when it comes to the Council of Ministers, but here, so the fact is that when you consider the Report, you do not have key people here right now. And what is the summary of the report? Only, in addition to this introductory sentence in the political criteria that are generally known and which the European Parliament, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, has clearly articulated, namely, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has unfinished, in political terms, constitutionally inefficient and dysfunctional structure, which limits all serious processes and progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know that there are complex political circumstances, that there is no willingness of internal key political actors to make a serious step forward, but also not 26 can we escape from the fact that it should always be stressed as the biggest limit for the country's progress forward. When it comes to economies, or economic criteria, please, let me just read one review, and what is the reaction of the competent executive bodies. This is – difficult labour market conditions remained unchanged with an unemployment rate of 27.6%, reaching 62.7% among young people. How many of these young people are leaving today, if we have an active one plan, hereafter will be the Agenda for Implementation of Agenda Reform, whether we have ways and visions to stop negative trends in the business environment, which are visible every day, improve governance in the public sector, reduce tax obligations and open up one space to start this country's development. Without it, we'll only be able to determine, unfortunately, and the situation will deteriorate. By the political criteria, there are evaluations of how to conduct the election. That would be discussed. Here, while we're sitting here today, I don't know how and it's not harmonised, we have a presentation, in the big hall, possible improvements, voting methods and transparency of the election process. While we MPs are sitting here at the same time, I think we should have had a minimal opportunity to participate in one and another important event. But here, five years from not implementing the Constitutional Court's decision on the Statute of the City of Mostar, one of the most important issues... Reports from the European Commission. These days we see the assessments with which individual members of the Interresor Working Group are coming out to prepare changes to the Election Law, where they clearly say there is neither a minimum of political will nor a willingness nor a close solution to this issue. When this issue is opened here, an Interresor Working Group, in which there is no member of the opposition, I said at the time that it is clear, you will see that there is no political will to get rid of anything more serious, because, in fact, under the cover of the European Agenda, relations in which certain political elites and circles preserve the existing situation, cement it, people leave, the country stagnates, unemployment grows, corruption, uncertainty, trust in institutions. Here, ladies and gentlemen, that's why we need here on these key topics, in this way to discuss and locate responsibility, and not to push our head into the sand and informalize these important reports, but essentially from this effort, which has been made here, and this is one real document that would have to allow us to develop an active relationship on any level, either state, entity or any other. And I'm just going to take one more question and one clear assessment, and then I'm going to conclude, when it comes to freedom of expression. This is one fundamental right both under the European Convention and by all other international acts. This document clearly states that Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only has progressed, but has gone backwards in this regard. Well, imagine where we are, where we are, when on that fundamental human right plan we are turning back. And if we don't talk here about this part of the media, where it is clearly said that the policy of intimidation and pressure on the media continues, so we see what kind of development is going on with BHRT and public services and broadcasters, how long it takes for some of the conclusions of this House and this Parliamentary Assembly to go on for more than half a year so that they, again under pressure, to be realized in some way. So, here, let me finish. I think that we need to take this report very seriously, that it is fundamentally and truly structurally well done and that what through action plans and reports, which should be considered more regularly here in all these important structural parts, this House and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH need as a supervisory mechanism and a body to be much more serious in their focus. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1364	Thank you too, Mr. Raguž. The word is from a dear colleague, Mr. Sifet Podžić. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1365	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. As chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, I have an obligation on this agenda to introduce you to the Joint Defence and Security Commission's response to this report. At the 12th session of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which was held on 08.12., we discussed the European Commission's Report, which in several lines commented on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and which included totally incorrect data. During the debate we were unique in the opinion that we should respond to incorrect allegations on page 10 Reports with subtitle – Civil Surveillance of Security Forces. We simply cannot believe that someone thus denied the fact of the work of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because the data are fully opposed to the actual facts. For example, in the report, states that only two meetings of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and the like have been held, that I do not list. If nothing more than the constitution of this Joint Commission for Defence and Security from 20 April to the creation of the Report, 11 Joint Commission meetings were held, and 14 sessions were held today. We also held a workshop, a conference involving the most responsible people in the defence and security sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have considered no less than 104 points of the agenda at our sessions. All opinions, reports, conclusions, have been forwarded to both houses of the BiH Parliament. How much we have visited police agencies, the defence sector's institutions from 20 April to today are well known to the public, and anyone who wants to look at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly website. Due to the progress made at the 12th session of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, we reached a unanimous decision and agreed on the text of the letter sent to Mr Wigemark, the head of the EU delegation and the EU Special Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also delivered the same content to the College of both homes and international organisations with which the Commission co-operates, such as NATO, such as EUFOR, DIKAF, UNDP, etc. I explain this reaction from my obligation to the members of the Joint Commission. There must be things and problems in this country that we disagree on, or maybe to say slightly different thoughts, but this time I don't think we can be blind to some numbers and facts that are found in this chapter. This Commission has had very important and very noticeable results before this conference, and we are simply wondering who needs all of this and what the 2015 report aims at. Here, in the end, we want to accept that there is a misunderstanding, but all of the above gives me the right to suggest that in the future, when drafts of such reports in the section relating to the work of the working bodies of Parliament are submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly, that these working bodies be made aware, that working material be delivered to them, so that they can react and correct in due time, simply what they are incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1366	Thank you too, Mr. Podžić. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1367	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, gentlemen of the chairmanship. I think it is important to note that we are discussing perhaps the most important issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For more than a decade, we have agreed that everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina is our EU's strategic goal. And then we get into this situation where we are now, today, so there's no one to submit the opening statement. And I think the three of you from the College are responsible for the fact that there's no one here from the Council of the Minsitors, that there's no one from the European Commission, to tell us anything about this report. ...the association, which we seek, says where we are, according to their vision. And besides Mr. Podžić and this opinion, no one has even said what they really think about this. And the report is disastrous. You noticed, I'm sure, that there's a new evaluation methodology, that it's descriptive, and that you can convert these five descriptions into scores from 1 to 2. And then you know what the joint score is? Between 1 and 2. It's a score for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's an answer to all of us where we are. It's not the answer to the day after tomorrow. This story is daily in the BiH Presidency media, we teach application 15, 14, in 5, 8 days, is actually running away from what it says here. And here he says, and whoever doesn't believe, let him check, that we stand worse than 8 years ago. And yet there is no Council of Ministers to say why. I'll remind you of something else. The date is here from November, the day after tomorrow it is three months as the European Commission wrote this. This House discusses it three months after the report we received, this alarming. It was normal for both homes to have the Council of Ministers' position on this within 15 days. This can't be about the Agenda, which is the next item of the agenda and this action plan, here I'm not giving an assessment of it so it won't cause any more problems, replace a score similar to what Mr. Podžić was talking about. What does the Council of Ministers think? Is this how this is and who's responsible for what it is? Well, of course the Council of Ministers is responsible, and that's why nobody's here today when we talk about this. And you think we can make progress. It is also a relationship with us, the Council of Ministers to Parliament, but we must say ours, ladies and gentlemen. More than half of the members of the People's House discussed amending the Law on Salaries, about what less we no longer dispute, except questionable compliance with the Constitution. And now this, or we come into a situation where we can talk to each other about it instead of talking to the Council of Ministers instead of talking to the European Commission. When he was part of the European Parliament, together with us working here, Mr Wigemark came immediately and had an opening presentation, and now that those who make the decision are going to progress in both Parliament and Parliament, there is no one from the European Commission. I think this is sad. I mean, gentlemen of the presidency, I'm talking to you first and foremost, that this is no longer the case for this important thing. So the Council of Ministers must be forced, look at this, to be there when we talk about these issues. If we can't force the European Commission, we can council the Ministers. We have to do this because otherwise none of this is going to happen. A grade one to two, how at the time when I went to school, those grades, now they're gone, is actually this. Everybody check, most of you are, these five descriptive grades and turn them into numbers and you'll see that we've fallen, that our score is between 1 and 2. We won't fix it if we keep talking this way. So, I'm betting that we keep this on the agenda, that we're getting reports from the Council of Ministers here, if we're going to make progress, if someone hasn't given up on that strategic commitment of ours. Imagine, we find it difficult to come to a solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina and agree, and we all agreed on a strategic commitment to the EU and then we treat it this way. Since I think that still, at least publicly, no one has given up the trip to the EU, we must have another approach here and the other House, especially the Council of Ministers. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1368	Mr. Radmanović, on behalf of the College, and given the technical aspect of the objections to the conditions for... these points of the agenda, so just to let you know, in the light of the notice. So, we had in mind all that you were talking about and, we came from the fact that a general rule was accepted that only the partially joint bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, had their part in so-called the European path, that over 75% of the things related to the European path is related to entities and entity governments, and beyond cantons, etc., and that a comprehensive debate on progress on this report would mean, if it were to be led to the House of Peoples, to invite representatives of all these institutions, which is not realistic, is not possible, ultimately, technically difficult to implement. So we came from calling the rapporteur, the one who prepared the report, because we are receiving his report for knowledge. But, as you yourself have concluded, so we cannot influence the representative, the EU special representative, whether he will come to our meeting or not. We can try to clarify the reasons why, although properly invited, he did not come. But we cannot create such an atmosphere that we, especially in the House of Nations, create an atmosphere where the Council of Ministers is wondering about these issues, and previously we all worked together to establish the view that over 75% of the things related to European integration are done by the government of entities. So they'd jump into their own stomachs. So we're not worth it, here's what I'm saying. So this is the technical response to the technical question, with an explanation that was directly related to the observations of the Kolegijum's work. If you think that today, as we can agree, there are no conditions, because we do not have the other side with which we are talking about all this, we can now conclude to postpone the debate on this item of the agenda until a representative of the European Commission appears, more specifically a special representative, and to inform the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and the Federal Parliament, and the Government of Republika Srpska, and the Federal Government, and the Brcko District, if this debate continues, so if they want to come here to answer any question concerning the failure of European integration procedure. So we in the College don't have a problem with that, if that's the suggestion. And we will put it to a vote and we will resolve this situation so that we will invite all those who participate, representatives of all those institutions and bodies that participate in European integration. But we cannot give up the principle that more than 75% of it is done by the Government of Republika Srpska, or the Federal Government, and then tell the Council of Ministers – you have jurisdiction, is it. So, one doesn't go with the other. If you're up to this suggestion of conclusion, of course you'll have a chance to plead, this is just an adjustment for the agenda point, this is not a discussion, so if you're up for it we'll put it to a vote. As far as we're concerned in college, we don't have a problem with that, so let's continue next time with the debate on this report. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović. You have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1369	The false allegation refers to your misreading of my participation in the debate. So, I didn't even think about what you're talking about. So I know, as everyone knows here, that much of the EU's implementation and accession, reform, applies to entities, and I didn't talk about it. I was talking about the accession of all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the strategic goal that we have all declared. And we don't have the same access. And that it's impossible for three months, after we got this, to have a discussion about this. And if we were to accept your proposal, that is, that is, that 30 of you are urging me to ask for a delay, we would come to the next report, which is, of course, unacceptable. So, my, this was an invitation to get everybody serious about this important issue, but first of all, the ones we can influence, that's the Council of Ministers. The second call was that we don't have a debate here between ourselves, which you've already entered, and I've avoided completely, and I have the opportunity to talk about it... when we don't have those we need to deal with. The essential question here is why is this state here, not that the two of us, or the five of us, are discussing among ourselves why this is the situation. So there's no point now, and I didn't ask for it, so we invite someone to tell us now, but there's a point in saying that it can't be like that in the future. If you understand me, Mr. Tadić. My call was to respond to this sort of thing immediately, so that we could all react quickly and correct the situation. And not to delay now, so we say – when Mr. Wigemark can, and until then they hand over the app, and we all turn to that paper, you all know what the app, paper, paper, in 3-4 days' time, the presidency is looking for what we used to do more than a decade ago. But this is an exact story. This is where people tell us we don't work. This is where they tell us we've fallen for juvie, we haven't completely failed. And that's why we're last in line to the EU. That's why all countries have become candidates, and we haven't even applied for candidate status. So that's what I stood for, and that's why now I've called to say it's a guilty allegation. I didn't ask what you said, but I asked for one general attention from everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the realisation of issues that are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1370	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Martin Raguž, the first of the wrong allegations. Here you go, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1371	Your Honor, Mr. President. And my reaction is to what you're proposing. So nowhere in the debate has it come down from any of the envoys that we're talking about where jurisdiction is and who needs to discuss it, and you've brought it in as a possible conclusion. So no, there was no basis. The second thing, this is the Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we as a Parliamentary Assembly, or one of the homes, are discussing what concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina from the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there's too much to think about right now who's here and who's not. We need the Council of Ministers here, that's what we've been talking about, and the European Commission. And even though they're gone, and they're gone, it doesn't mean, at least I can articulate my attitude, so we can't express our position on it. Here, this is one minimum that we should all conclude here together today and preserve the dignity of this House, which is significantly marred by the absence of these institutions when we consider it. And I'm in favour of us all reacting to it together. And it's not focused at all, I know that the College wanted to secure it, and it's not at all controversial, but this is an indicator, so we're not throwing a ping pong ball now that they're somewhere else competent and we can't discuss it. We have something to discuss here, this is about the country. Well, one of the priorities is the coordination mechanism. Why do we need this coordination mechanism? So let's not underestimate it, to bring all these levels of government into line, but to have Bosnia and Herzegovina speak with one voice. Let's not do this right now, let's do some essential and strategic things, and if Parliament won't react to that and direct the activities of both the Council of Ministers and all the other bodies, I don't know who will. I think that today we are right if we seek seriousness on these issues, responsibility, regular monitoring and work and insight of this body into these important topics. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1372	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has a further respected colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ... unquestionably and firmly advocate European integration, however, as esteemed counterpart Raguž said, a fundamental human right is the right to express its opinion. And that's why I want to say a few words. This European road, we have no place to go, Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the heart of Europe, and here there were civilizations when many gentlemen, who are in the EU, were still eating their dead, but come on, it's another pair of sleeves. What I was about to say is that this European path, and I sincerely hope so, and I will do everything I can to make it so, which will end with EU accession, should be honorable and dignified, and not on my knees, crawling and begging. And just because anyone from the EU delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't show up here tells us what they think of us. Gospodn Podžić, what he was saying, is absolutely right, a lot of the allegations in this report are superficial, flat, uninterested and respected gentlemen didn't at least make an effort to come and say – we concluded that this is so and then we would probably say ok, ok, because we really want to join the EU. Similarly to these assessments mentioned by the esteemed colleague Radmanović, a unit, two, this year, the 111 years of the existence of HSS, and over 100 years ago, you will hear how these words are currently sounding, the founder of HSS Mr Stjepan Radić said the following – until the people are sufficiently educated and able to politically decide to threaten us again. Europe can't and won't help us, and it's hard for a man who waits for bread from someone else's hand. We wait and do nothing. I think it is humiliating that no one from the EU delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been able to set up an hour or two to come here and explain this to us. And I propose a conclusion to the House, not to come now, following what Mr Radmanović was saying, so they can tell us about this, because this is a past matter, which we will send to the EU delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the next report must necessarily be attended by someone from the delegation on board, and by the Council of Ministers, and in this country's highest legislative body, when their report is discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1374	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1375	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I will be very brief, given that my colleagues have discussed this in essence, but I need to say that it is never too late to find this on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly, because it has never, as far as I know, been found in the form of such a report. Therefore, we have opened the debate and through this report we see where we are and what level we have reached development in all areas of social, economic, political and other life. 32 Let me remind you, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in 2008 and given what counterpart Radmanović said and the commitment of all factors in Bosnia and Herzegovina that our path to the EU is, from this report, we can see a lot of things. Whether the report is good or not, it is an assessment of each individual, but the fact is that in all these criteria, it means political, and economic, and European standards, stand like this, Mr Radmanović talked about descriptive assessments, but here, I will say specifically, since he based himself on numbers, certain levels of preparation, there was no progress, early phase and some progress. Nothing concrete and nothing, and where we are after all these years as far as we have dealt with these topics, and I think that in Bosnia and Herzegovina everyone should do their job and within their respective competences, and the collection of all these jobs should be in this report and to determine how much progress that is. Well, if you look specifically at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, then you will find one piece of information that we have given ourselves, which is in the proposal for a programme of work of the Council of Ministers for the past year, 65 European laws should be adopted in 2015. Here, we'll see at the end when we analyze how much we've made this step. Furthermore, I think that we need standards, first of all, to adopt ourselves, to act by these standards, to put key things in Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as politics, such as the rule of law, such as parliamentaryism, such as human rights, economic criteria that are most important in EU standards, to bring ourselves into line. And what I'm going to say in the end, and so said Mr. Raguž, and I've been to this House several times and asked that question, the agreement on the coordination mechanism. We are all saying that we are for the EU, the EU is looking for one speaker in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the coordination mechanism has long been current, for sure 2-3 years, and we do not have an answer to that question to this day. The last time I asked a delegate question about the coordination mechanism, I got an answer, and that's at least three or four months old at least, and this report, it's close to agreeing on the coordination mechanism. Here, we already have a March month or February, I haven't heard that we're close to those solutions yet. I think that these are some things that we must take care of, and we as Parliament must give our assessment of these events. And of course I absolutely agree with my colleague Podžić who said that in future work on these reports every commission in its jurisdiction, as we do some other reports, should give its assessment. ... The Human Rights Commission should state the state of human rights, and not to say there are no shifts, etc., etc., and I know that some topics are opening. For this reason, I believe that I probably do not know how this report today, whether to receive knowledge, etc., but I think that Parliament should have given, or the House of People, a certain kind of support in the realization of certain evaluations and attitudes here both further and which way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1376	Thank you too, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Halid Genjac's esteemed colleague has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1377	Thank you. I'm seeing at this point and after so much time since the report was delivered I don't see any big problem that none of the Council of Ministers here, I even think it's rational. And here's why. A progress report for a particular country is being made between September and September. So we have a report in front of us that treated the state until September last year. We're 33 right now in mid-February, so 5.5 months, we're already in a period of 5.5 months doing a report for the next period, and we're considering a report on a period that ended 5.5 months ago. So obviously there's a problem here somewhere. Where? We'll see it together and we'll get rid of it. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the Joint Commission for European Integration at the session held on 02.12., so on 2 December last year, the report was discussed, and at that session of the Commission was attended by the EU Special Representative, the EU Delegation, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, two ministers and almost, I think that the entire Commission for European Integration. Very thorough – Report in front of the delegation, Report in front of the Council of Ministers and a very thorough debate. This thorough debate was, in fact, the reason why the Commission suggested that they come to the House to submit the report, because the Commission's opinion was to suggest that the College should call on the Head of Delegation and invite the Chairman of the Council of Ministers at the House to present the Report. This particular debate was a very high - quality occasion. Of course, we are in the middle of February today, and I don't think it's exactly the EU delegation and the Council of Ministers' chairman just to present the Progress Report several times a year, especially with a 5-month delay. Where's the problem? Are we to blame? We should see, but I don't think that's rational. The second thing, the Joint Commission for European Integration, in its work, has determined that all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina are calling for their part of the report to be presented to them. At the meeting where there were 20 representatives of the institutions, from the Court, the Prosecutor's Office, and beyond, I think 4 or 5 members of the Commission were present. Each individual also presented his report on what was done, where problems, etc., etc. So this Progress Report, believe me, is well-discussed and perhaps it should have been in the House, in fact not perhaps but certainly needed, and will need to be at the House in the future, after being treated by the competent commission immediately otherwise loses its actuality. That's one thing. I would refrain from general evaluations, whether they're either negative or positive. The report still gives a very, very balanced, precise, measured assessment. It's not there, I mean there's no big mistakes, because the report is being obtained, the elements are being added from various sources. And as you follow the assessments are limited progress, there has been no progress, there have been some assumptions, assumptions reached, etc., etc. It's not a black painting, it's not even a picture to be too pleased with. But compared to what we had in the previous period, the facts are the following – brought Bosnia and Herzegovina back to the path of European integration, the re-focused EU through a renewed approach, so we are not responsible, but we have also used this new approach, that new hand given. So, a restored focus, returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path. The results achieved – Reform Agenda adopted, initiated by the implementation of the reform agenda, entity governments achieved certain reforms, some very important, you know, transport policy adopted as a assumption that we join the Connective Programme, etc., I am talking about the period until September last year. We know when this authority is established, when the parliamentary majority has been established, which we have problems in post-election years, which should also be taken into account, because every post-election year around mid-year, as entities' homes are established, so the House of BiH chooses the Council of Ministers, so to reach agreements, etc., etc. I have no intention at all to justify, that, I don't know either, in some way, I'm reducing the responsibility of anyone, I'm trying in a way to objectively set up the parameters and objectively our own densities – what we really did, what we didn't do. The fact is that the reformski Agenda is also a document that speaks of intentions, some kind of promise. How we're going to do that we're going to see in the implementation, on the Action Plan of the Reform Agenda, what we've done and how we're going to do. And something about that at the next point should also be said in 34 terms of currentity. But I think what's in the report is an objective picture, what's exactly measured in the report, and I think that the treatment of the Progress Report through our bodies, through the Commission, because you know we have a Parliamentary Assembly with a very significant role of commissions and commission phases, I think it's enough to say, I think that in the future we'll have to ensure that the Progress Report is found at least a month after he arrives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be presented, to be found at the House's sessions. And I think that's how we're going to have both the answer and the actuality and the representatives of the Council of Ministers, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1378	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. An esteemed colleague, Martin Raguž, appeared to correct the wrong allegations. That's the second correction. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1379	Thank you very much. My correction refers to the actuality of this report, so what Mr Genjac now said is that this report is by 9th month 2015. In my own court, it means nothing in terms of the actuality of this report, because this refers to strategic assessments of all important areas for this country in continuity. I've... listed some who haven't been filled in for many years and are in the report. So this isn't about having to be considered at 9:00, nor has this stopped being relevant. It is unfortunately more relevant because many of these things are not realized, it is seen from the report itself. So that's about the actuality. And the second thing, if it was already the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration, I welcome, and surely it was a great debate on the Commission and the participation of the European Commission representatives, and the proposal to go to the House, and then today should have taken a step more into that sense of responsibility of all the bodies, rather than a step back. I mean, that would be logic. It would be logical and certain, therefore, that we cannot defend here today the absence and representatives of the European Commission and the Council of Ministers, regardless of the date when we consider it. I don't think that anyone had any intention of criticizing it, but to make all of us responsible in this process. And please nice, here's the next point of the Action Plan. Well, why are we considering this report? Well, I guess let's see what's wrong with this report, what's priorities, what's good, so that it becomes an action plan, and that we also have a precise hodogram, and dynamics, and the responsibility of institutions. It's the only way this all makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1380	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, also correcting the wrong quote another time. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1381	The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the second part of Mr. Genjac's debate, but before I say so, I want to confirm what he said at the beginning. It is true that the Commission for European Integration jointly held a broad debate, not only within the Commission, that they were present from both the European Commission and the Council of Ministers. But the Commission's proposal for a joint 35 home debate is not random, but to raise this to a higher level all together and to have one real debate, and not that we, here there are 5-6 of us in that Commission, are again discussing between ourselves what we have already talked about. But what I came forward to correct is the second part of the debate in which Mr. Genjac tried to justify those who were undeniably responsible. That's what everyone who is following this debate and who is reading this, so the Council of Ministers and those who have had to bring about repairs. And of course, there is no need for us to make this story better because the European Commission has moved on to descriptive evaluation. And it's also true that, as Mr. Genjac said, which are grades, but when you turn them, you'll see that we're bad, that we're nothing. So I don't even believe Mr. Genjac wanted to say that we're really good at this kind of story, but he wanted to ease that grade. And that's where we needed them, too, from the European Commission and the Council of Ministers. And that's where I'm ready, for example. to talk about each of those grades that were made here, but we had to have a basis for that. Unfortunately, we don't have it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1382	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. There's a word, in terms of discussion, an esteemed colleague, Mr. Darko Babalj. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1383	Well, I don't know how or how to discuss it because this is all most respected colleagues, who have discussed it before me, are somehow contradictory. How do I see this? We woke up today and he gave us a report on where we are. Yesterday we don't know where we were, half a year ago we don't know where we were, a year ago we don't know where we were, five we don't know where we were, ten we don't know where we were, and today we have a report for the first time. Mr Rodić said this is the first report on the table, here is the House of Peoples. In the House of Representatives, where I was four years ago, there was never a report, and I trust Mr Rodić that this is the first time he's had a report. Thank Bog this Wigemark and these didn't come, because I'd be ashamed and I wouldn't know what to say. People exactly, exactly, wrote us where we are, with respect for certain things, here's to mention Mr. Sifet Podžić, where we say this isn't true, and I didn't hear anything else that wasn't true. Everything people have written is true. And they told us – gentlemen dear, and my esteemed colleague Mr Nebojša Radmanović tells us that we are all committed by the EU and told us – he can go to Europe, but we wrote exactly under what conditions. Who makes the laws? We do. We're blaming the Council of the Ministry. They're not here for pleasure. If they don't propose laws, do we have those rules and those things to pass laws that will be for the benefit of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? We do. I'll refrain from introducing politics. And what I will say in the end, to be brief, to thank the Commission staff working document for opening our eyes, because at one point I thought – about Europe, you join Bosnia and Herzegovina, not Bosnia to join Europe, how wonderful, how wonderful and wonderful we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1384	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1385	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. You see, there is no question here of yesterday's position or today's opposition and vice versa, here is the obvious question of how forward Bosnia and Herzegovina should make a new step forward. Everything will be and everything is irrelevant what happened yesterday if we don't think about what happens tomorrow. That's why we're here in this House, and once, and also in the House of Representatives. What I have to tell you is that there's nothing wrong with having a representative of the European Commission, there hasn't even been written by Renco Davidi, that I apologize for calling him, no one individually, there is a team, and a whole team of people who have a mission there and made the report the way it is. And she gave us their vision. Whether we are sitting here right now, the House of Representatives, we want to step up with them and say, "This is not true, this is not true, this is not true, this is not true, etc. If that's what we want then they need to be here and it's still a question of whether it's us. The second question that I could not conclude here was whether the Council of Ministers received this report as an executive body in this country at all. If he did, then it would be quite logical that the Council of Ministers opened the debate, looked at all of it, explained the circumstances as they were, so if there was a possible observation that something was wrong, and especially that it was necessary to say how to overcome the problems. It is the key to the problem in the part that is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, clearly that other authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are responsible for it. I don't see it done. What's this report gonna mean that we're considering today? Nothing. We're going to talk here, we don't have any conclusions here, I haven't even seen them in the House of Representatives. What's a step forward? What are we going to do about all these questions, so we don't even elaborate one question at a time, from the judiciary to the information, to the fact that I don't know what else? We'll only take this to the knowledge today. Now, there's a problem that we've been getting to know a lot of things in these homes for years, and we don't solve these issues, we don't make any concrete conclusions on what we can do at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the rest we say entities, cantons, etc. In this correlation I bring co-ordination that is, not formal, but essential in Bosnia and Herzegovina, coordination on which I have been dealing with the Ministry for eight years with entity and cantonal ministries, organs, etc., where I have seen what it means to coordinate or not coordinate at all, what it means to do badly and what it means if there is no coordination, then be sure there is no progress. I fear it in this agenda, to call it that, in this document. I'm worried about that, too. If we are ready, why did I mention it in general the Council of Ministers, in no way at all the variations that are in place today and yesterday we were in some position, etc., but simply what would be most logical to me is that this House assigns the Council of Ministers to consider this document in detail, proposes the conclusions that would be delivered to both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt them as such and then hope for some step forward. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1386	The president of the House, Mr. Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1387	Dear colleagues. From the course of the discussion we had, and if we didn't know what Mr Rodić said that for the first time the House of Peoples, or the Parliamentary Assembly discusses such a report, it would be clear to some objective observer that this is the case. So, I just want to remind you, 37 is not the European Commission's main audit service for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so she's reporting to us what the Council of Ministers was doing, so let's tell the Council of Ministers, is that exactly what these uncles are talking about. This is the report of us, the House of the Peoples. Who are you calling for responsibility? Well, there are no authorities in the opposition when it comes to the European way. This is us. This is not the Council of Ministers. What, let's call Zvizdić and ask him what this is like, what's the matter? And what if he asks us? So, what are we talking about here? So you see, so I stand very clearly behind what I'm talking about, and I'm talking about the next one. As members of the House of the Peoples, we should have seen what of this House of Nations can fix if we're willing to fix it. The Minister's advice to see what he can fix, if he can fix it even if it's his jurisdiction. This report has gone to all institutions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then the entity governments that say they have 75% of the entities, which is what we all say, right, when it comes to negotiations with the European Commission, should say of this 75%, we will fix it. What kind of people are we? Well, here we have found that the Joint Defence and Security Commission has been misrepresented in this report, we have informed NATO. If it was the varšavski Pact, they would have informed him. It's not 2. It's 12. ... moreresponsible, as they say. Why do we have the right here to scold someone else on the basis of the report, so we're part of that system. It is our job to take and see what this applies to us, so if we stand behind the signature on the European agenda and if we want to go the European way to say – let's let the people fix this right now, so let the others suffer. As the chairman of the House of Peoples and a member of this College, I say that as far as this Report is concerned, there is little or no objection, i.e. any claim relating directly to the work of the House of Peoples. So, I don't see any objections regarding the work of the House of Peoples. And that is why I can say that I am pleased, because we are all, and this document, in turn, driving as it goes in the common bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to us, so we cannot, before others, know the rules in the Parliamentary Assembly, so we have worked it out and we have determined what we will determine, we have reached the conclusions that we will make. So we're not in the House of Peoples in negative grades when it comes to this report. That's the first point, so it's our responsibility. It is therefore, in a general sense, present in a single sense, so we are not the source of any problem, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. That's what our elemental conclusion is. Can 15 of us be satisfied? I think so. Now, if we're responsible and reasonable people, and we're all on the list, let's see how we can help others, even ourselves, what we can influence, and we're not for the political system, the political structure, the way we work, the ways we've learned so far about how to make decisions in this country, etc., to help them make a decision, to solve some of the proud knots. And that is why we are neither adopting nor accepting this report today, but simply receiving or not receiving knowledge. If this isn't like this, if we think that the European Commission needs as our control body to review the work of other bodies and bring us the House of Peoples a report that we make it clear that she's done a good look or she hasn't examined it, let's just drop this right now. Let's vote against this and say - this is not true, we should have already been part of the EU, but there are some malicious people who don't and write reports that aren't true. How else do you explain that in this country 95% of the parties are all in power and they all have part of the agreement for this, and we're all unhappy with progress, and we all know what to do, and we don't. So I ask you to put this back into the framework of that way of work that we have established here in the House of Peoples and which is why we are light, in an institutional sense, a point in the entire political system. It is important to realize that no remark, no negative assessment refers to anything in relation to which the House of Nations has its jurisdiction. Secondly, whatever progress is at stake here, and that it is related to the Parliamentary Assembly and its procedure, it is evident that we have made our contribution and that this progress has been made. Let every organ in this country, and Council of Ministers, and 38 government entities, and Brcko District, and cantonal, make their own conclusions about what they're doing, and we'll take this into account, and in the course of the year that we're facing this, here's what I'm saying, let's see what doesn't apply to us, how to help be corrected in the interests of all the people who live here. Well, I'd say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1388	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1389	Mr. Radmanović, you have exhausted the right to correct the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1390	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1391	Well, the Rules of Procedure don't make it impossible for you, but here, we can do that, two corrections have.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1392	Okay, I have to say I'm sorry that you didn't understand what I'm talking about as chairman, because your debate here has shown that we don't understand each other. You want us to discuss only what concerns us, and I want to raise the problem of European integration to the highest possible level, and there is Parliament at both homes. And I think that's where we differ significantly.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1393	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1394	And the other thing about it, there's a score in the report of the bureaucratic European Commission, that's my view, which is... the need to talk about saying that it's not true, some, here's one we heard here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1395	Mr. Radmanović...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1396	So we can't just say everything's okay with what you wrote. After all, you all know how most reports are written. I don't slow down the whole and grade between 1 and 2, but there are some things to talk about and we talked about... that's true. I don't want any more, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1397	Mr. Radmanović, so with respect as a colleague, I didn't take your word for it. I really ask all of us, there are various ways to apply for the discussion without violating the Rules of Procedure. So, you've now had three replicas, three corrections to the wrong quote in this debate. 39 For the third correction came Mr. Martin Raguž, which is not permitted according to the Rules of Procedure. Whether you can apply for non-compliance with the established agenda or something else, simply so as not to introduce a practice of non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure under this principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1398	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1399	So here, sign up on some other basis, let's say you don't follow the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1400	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1401	It was a bit of an emergency with Mr. Radmanović, but good.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1402	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1403	Please turn on the microphone. For Mr. Raguž, not respecting the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1404	Thank you. I have great respect for what you have now manifested here in the cloak of the dignity of this institution at the House of Peoples, and I share that it is sincere and I believe that it is done by the College, and in that sense you have support. However, there can be absolutely no rating here that the House of Peoples has nowhere to be held accountable in this izviješće, so I'm reporting right now. Why? If BiH Constitutional Court decisions are not implemented which explicitly ordered the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to amend the legislation in accordance with the Constitution of this country, if we are not responsible, I do not know who it is. Some of them are mentioned in this report. That's why I called. And secondly, I join all those who have advocated a wider approach and ascension to a higher level of importance of this... I mean, we have that right and that's our contribution. This does not mean that if we are sitting here by people from the European Commission or the Council of Ministers, we have called them, but we think it would be a good thing that they are here, that something in the action plan comes from this debate, and that there is a task to be... I think that's the point and we should all go that way. Here, and there is no position or opposition here when it comes to the European pathway, but there is in you when you form bodies, you don't give opposition to some bodies, as the Interressor Working Group for the Change of Election Law. Well, that's why we have two mandates spent so that there is no more serious change to the election law and there is no application of the Constitutional Court's decision. We are not talking about the European path, we are talking about responsibility. And do not challenge our right to discuss some specific questions in this way. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1405	Replica, Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1406	Thank you for, of course, one and the other, but it's very important to say the following, I think. If we don't have a common discourse when it comes to this matter, it was power, opposition, whatever, then we have a serious problem. I also remind you that when the Alliance for Change in this case was not in power there was a common discourse when it came to these matters regarding the European pathway. Now, if these discourses change on a daily basis and change on a need to be troubled for this or that reason, then it's a daily policy, and in that daily policy lies most of the problems this report is talking about. And who's the generator in all this? Well, it's not the House of Peoples. So it's not the House of Peoples. We're talking about applying the Constitutional Court's decision. You see, in that mandate, which is even tied here for this period of the report, it was decided to do so at the level of some political experts. The Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac issue is not in the Parliamentary Assembly at all, it is not. It deals with the presidents of political parties, their legal advisers and shit. So that's something that's an obvious fact. Secondly, there is also political power that is evenly in that part here. Here we have, as representatives of Republika Srpska in the past term, a solution for constitutional changes related to the Sejdić-Finc verdict, we have given, which says, one member of the Republika Srpska Presidency, two from the Federation, etc., five plus one and ten plus two, but there is no one on the agenda. And there's no question why there's nothing on the agenda, and there's a question of why there's no here we had the law today whether it's been late in the procedure for three or two months, and this is in the procedure for six years. And it is not true that there is no opposition in the Interresor Working Group. There is Lazar Prodanović from the House of Representatives. As for our representatives from Republika Srpska, we half shared the issue and that responsibility. From the House of Representatives, Lazar Prodanović, who is the opposition, a representative of the SNSD, is from the House of Peoples, who is from the SDS, a representative of the Alliance for Change and thus of the parties who support this Council of Ministers. Why is it someone else, it's not a question for everyone. I'm really asking you, so let's say that, if this is our problem as the House of Peoples, and obviously it is, we treat this question functionally, usefully, and let's say - we've received the Report of Knowledge, and this,...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1407	Time, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1408	Thank you, and what we've seen here, each and every one of us, and as the House of Peoples as a whole, we're going to work on making some kind of progress. Pulling each other's legs doesn't lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1409	Thank you very much. Any more replicas?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1410	Thank you, Mr. Softić. 41 After the debate is concluded, we move on to a plea. We have three suggestions that we need to make known. The first proposal is the Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the year 2015 of the European Commission and we declare it by receiving it for or not receiving it for them. Then we have two suggestions for conclusions, one conclusion that came from Mr. Podžić, and the other is the conclusion that came from Mr. Mario Karamatić. You have all these conclusions in front of you on your work surfaces. If there is a need to explain something or to explain one of the proposings. _________(?) There's no need. There's no need. Okay. We're moving on to a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1412	If he can just do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1413	The word before the plea, stop the plea, the word before the plea has a member of the College, Mr Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1414	Of course we'll make a statement, but here's this proposal from my colleague Karamatić, I would really like to support him, but we cannot, simply, bind them to our conclusions, with all due respect. That's it, just to understand Mr. Karamatić's point. Here, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1415	Mr. Karamatić, does that change your position as a promoter? I have to ask if you're staying with it since you're from the same club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1416	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1417	Wait for the microphone, please. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1418	I absolutely appreciate that you can't, but I can. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1419	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Well, then we move on to a plea. First we vote on the report. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, against 1 delegate, and two delegates were detained. From Federation 7 to, 1 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 to, 1 abstention. 42 There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 has been accepted. We are now moving on to the conclusion statement and the first conclusion proposed by Mr. Sifet Podžić. Is there any need for me to read it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1420	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1421	No, thank you. Mr. Genjac, is it a mistake, do you want me to repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1422	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1423	We've repeated it several times, and we can do it for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1424	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1425	You don't have to. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present - 13 delegates were for, against no hands, held 1 delegate. From Federation 8 to, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 5 to. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the conclusion proposed by Mr. Sifet Podžić was adopted. We move to a statement on the conclusion proposed by Mr Mario Karamatić. Is there any need for me to read?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1426	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1427	There isn't. Thank you. Run the plea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1428	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1429	Well, according to the discussions, it's a mistake, but let's see. I ask to repeat the vote, Mr. Podžić's objection. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 5 were for, against 5, abstentions 4. From Federation 4 to, 2 against, 3 abstentions, from Republika Srpska 1 to, 3 against and 1 abstention. There is no general majority, so I find that this conclusion has not received the necessary support. 43 We move to work according to item 10 of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Action Plan to implement BiH Council of Ministers Reform Agenda, Council of Ministers material You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission considered and took note of the Information on the Action Plan for the implementation of the Reform Agenda at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH. At the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, the House of Representatives took note of the Action Plan. I give the word to the bearer, if he's present, and I see he's not. Just a minute. Therefore, given that the activities of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the meetings they had, so it's not over until this point of the agenda, and if they were applicants of this material, the proposal of the College is to conclude that this item of the agenda continues at the next session of the House of Peoples, since we have no proposing that at this point would be unforgivable. So, unless there are any objections, I'm opening a discussion on this proposal first. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1431	I mean, you had a good intention, but I think you're watching the Reform Agenda, the Action Plan for implementing the Ministers' Reform Agenda, that's 28.10.2015 material. So, material that's 3.5 months old. I think that, as the report is ours, so let's say I couldn't vote for the report today that I took it to my knowledge because really five months ago I took it to my knowledge, I can't take it against myself, so as it were, our relationship with one understanding and that we have it in mind and that we're doing everything else we need to do. I think the most important thing here is that we hear what the Council of Ministers has done on the implementation of the Action Plan, because it is already 5 months since the Action Plan has been adopted, that there should be a point of the agenda at the next session – Information on the implementation of the Action Plan. So, in order for us not to delay this point so that we can be late again, I suggest that we take note today of the Action Plan on the implementation of the Reform Agenda, because it is ours to just get to know each other and ask for the next session of the Information on the implementation of the Action Plan. Why delay for the next session that may be in half or a month to learn the Action Plan that was adopted three months ago, you understand. I don't think there's any need. So I suggest we take it to the knowledge, and at the next session, we discuss what was done in this Action Plan, as far as it came with the implementation of the Action Plan. I think... it'd be better.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1432	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The discussion continues on this proposal by the College. A dear colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž, came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1433	No microphone 44 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1434	You're giving up the discussion. Okay. So, the College's proposal may be modified by this conclusion proposed by Mr Genjac, which is that we postpone this item of the agenda due to the absence of a proposal for the next meeting of the House of Nations, with the aim of, in addition to the theme, the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Anex, which says the Report on the activities carried out so far, and that this is the proposal for the conclusion of the College of the House of Peoples. I'm putting a motion like this to a vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates voted in favour. From Federation 9, from Republika Srpska 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize this proposal has been adopted. We're going to work on the 11th item of the agenda, Ad. 11. Report on the realisation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013 and Report on issued documents for external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purposes for 2014 delivered by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission adopted a report on the realisation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013 and a report on issued documents for external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purposes for 2014. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 22nd session, held on 30.12.2015. I give my word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if it pleases. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 2013 Declaration on the Implementation of Foreign Trade in Arms, Military Equipment, Double and Special Use Products and the Report on issued documents for external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special uses for 2014. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 delegates voted in favour, no one was against, only one delegate was abstained. From Federation 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 for, against none, abstention 1. 45 There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the report on the realisation of external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2013 and the report on issued documents for external trade in arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2014. Moving to point 12, Ad. 12. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Transparency of work in BiH institutions”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, when I see things like this, I can't keep my mouth shut. We have before us an Impact Review Report "Transparency of Labour of BiH institutions" by the BiH Institutions Audit Office. Very nice. Now we read it, and it says there what could be fixed, what wouldn't, in order to be transparent, and then we see that the data source on these tables is some, that the data from the questionnaires, and the review of the transparency of work is done, I guess for the purpose of preventing corruption, preventing the public from doing anything, and then finally we see that the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency has not delivered the data at all to the Office for the Auditing of BiH Institutions. Well, if there was this intransparency, we see that the Board of State Service for Appeals also failed to provide data from the BiH Institutions Audit Office. And then I wonder what makes sense in the first place that we are voting on the transparency of the work of BiH institutions when two institutions that should be the leaders of this fight, specifically against corruption prevention and the coordination of the fight against corruption. So, that agency didn't do much to deliver the data at all, fill out questionnaire one. I don't know, funny. We'll vote. People tried, they wrote, I think it would be nice, here's to support them, but I don't see any sense in such documents. I have already mentioned, at one of the previous sessions I asked specifically the College, in fact, I have come to some point that I have received information that the company that was eventually declared responsible for poisoning children in kindergartens has been given the job of obtaining food, here also for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and for state institutions, and the Presidency, etc. I didn't get any answers, and this company can't, it doesn't have a meat license, it doesn't have a license to traffic meat processing, eggs, I mean, it can't even milk and it's animal origin. And it kind of comes to institutions. Now if this company has, it's on my trail, there's something wrong with transparency, there's something wrong with this Agency for Prevention, Coordination, something's wrong, I guess someone's complaining about the Board of State Service for Appeals, but there's no such data here, you can't find them. I think this is the report, with what I've mentioned, that it's a copy of the society we live in. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1438	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. There is no further application for participation in the discussion. We move to a statement on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject of "Transparency of Labour in BiH Institutions". Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 10 delegates were in favour, 3 delegates were detained. From Federation 7 to, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 3 to 2 abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Impact Review Report on the "Transparency of Labour in BiH Institutions" has been adopted. We are now voting on the conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget of our House. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 11 were for, 2 were abstentions. From Federation 8 to, from Republika Srpska 3 to 2 abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget of our House has been adopted. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: “Command Management of Customs Terminals”, material of BiH Institutions Audit Office
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1442	Thank you. Here, just to ask my colleagues and colleagues who are elected to this Interim Commission, when they name this member of the academic community at the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, Crime and the rest, to tell them to fill out the questionnaire and send the BiH Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1443	And maybe a part of the war.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1444	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-09-0.u1445	Okay, thank you, Mr. Karamatić. So, are there any other applications? There's no sign-ins. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Republika Srpska 5, from Federation 9. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency in which we have appointed from the House of Nations: Ljilju Zovko, Dark Babalj and Halid Genjac. On the agenda of today's session there is still agreement on the ratification of agreements and acts. With the agreement of other members of the College, I propose that we bring together the debate and the statement on points 15 to 19, including item 19 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Who's up for this proposal? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 13 were for, 1 was abstentioned. From Federation 8 to, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 5 to. There's a general and entity majority, so I find the proposal adopted. Ad. 15. - 19. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and acts You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. 49 I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Commission, if he wishes. He doesn't want to, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who answers for a word under these agreements? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a declaration of consent for ratification of the agreements and acts referred to in points 15 to 19, including item 19 of the agenda. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 were in favour. From Federation 9, from Republika Srpska 5. There is a general and enthusiastic majority, so I realize that we have given consent to ratification of the agreements and acts referred to in points 15 to 19, including the point of the 19th agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I realize that we have completed the 14th session of the House of Peoples, and I hereby conclude this session. You will be notified of the date on which the next session is held. Thank you very much. Session completed at 14:15 p.m.
