ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15161	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 37th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was announced by MPs Saša Magazinović, Sadik Ahmetović, Asim Sarajlić and Željko Komšić, who announced the delay. According to the Service, 36 MPs attend the session. So I figure there's a quorum for the session. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, allow MPs to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. We have with us a Council of Ministers who will give answers to your questions and now we can start by asking oral parliamentary questions according to the order of arrival. I give my word to Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15162	I thank and welcome all those present. My question was addressed to Mr. Zvizdić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which concerns relations, namely the revision of the Treaty on the Use of Hydroaccumulation of the Buško Lake with the Republic of Croatia. So, Busko Lake, which is Europe's largest artificial lake, is obviously still a problem that has not been resolved. Bosnia and Herzegovina loses tens of millions of KM annually at the expense of the Bus Lake, and for many years now from Canton 10, whose area is this lake, according to Croatia's electricity industry, when paying anyway, the miserable fees are self-depending. In 2011, only a few thousand marks were paid to the municipalities of Livno and Tomislavgrad, explaining that the Orlovac hydropower plant is on the remont, and that the water was not used. The fees paid by the Croatian electricity industry to the municipalities on which the area is around 0.010 marks per kilowatt hour of produced energy, which will say that it earns 70 million KM annually, while Bosnia and Herzegovina is still paying for the misery. My question is – What has been done on this issue and has the Council of Ministers, which has already announced that they will have a visit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, initiated this issue, that is, when we hear from the media that Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia says he will not interfere with the internal relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not necessary and cannot interfere? We call on him from this place to intervene in order to resolve this issue, to review the contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, and all to make use of this misery that they pay 2 in the way of new employment, new development projects in the municipalities of Livno and Tomislavgrad, i.e. Canton 10, where emigration is most drastic in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15163	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15164	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, I welcome you all. Before I answer this question, just one small, short-term dyspression or a note. This question is the only question I have today, and that it is truly defined and set in accordance with Article 171. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. So it's very clearly formulated and allows for an answer within two minutes. All other questions within one question have an average of five other questions and it is quite ambitious and irresponsible to expect that within two minutes we answer five questions that would require at least 20 or 25 minutes of content. For this reason, today we will answer very taxaneously, briefly with yes or no, to other questions that have three, four, or five questions in one question. When asked by the distinguished representative Gasal-Vražalica-Vražica, they can say that Croatia's electricity industry established the company "Busko Blato" d.o.o., in accordance with the permit and regulations in the Federation of BiH. Livno with the task of managing the accumulation of "Busko Blato" and other facilities in the Orlovac Hydroelectric system on the territory of the Federation of BiH, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also in 23.05.2011, the Agency for the Adriatic Water Area in Mostar issued a water licence to the natural company "Busko Blato" d.o.o. It's livno. So it's a state of mind. As for your specific issues regarding the revision of the contract, I can say that between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, an interstate agreement has not yet been concluded that would refer to the use of the Busko Lake hydroaccumulation, so that no procedure for revising such a contract could be launched, but this is one of the topics or one of the issues that we will run for the next joint session between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And if we agree together to be part of the agenda, then we're going to run things like that, so we can end up dealing with this issue between our two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15165	Thank you. Commentary, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15166	Thank you. Since it is not clear to me within the answer of Mr. Chairman that something has been issued from, is it, some institutions in Mostar when this is the only, or place to talk is the Council of Ministers and the only Bulgarian lake is excluded from the Federal Ministry of Energy, Mining and 3 of the Federation of BiH's government industries. In 2011, this question was raised in this hall where Mr. Erdal Trhulj, then minister, gave an answer in a way that the Council of Ministers should take action as reluctantly as possible. So that was five years ago. The Council of Ministers did not consider, or still did not consider, that this is a topic to be discussed with neighbouring country of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to turn away from the Hague policy, to finally launch development projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the revision of the contract in a way that Bosnia and Herzegovina will get what is coming to it. So I cannot be satisfied with Mr. Zvizdić's response that says it will be put on the agenda. So far you've met countless times with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, so I don't know why you haven't already initiated this issue, but you're putting it for future issues between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15167	Thank you. I would just like to point out that according to the Rules of Procedure, two minutes are scheduled for the matter to be asked, two minutes for the response of the Council of Ministers' representatives and one minute for the MP's comment. Next question, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15168	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. My question is addressed to the minister of justice, and it is related to the unexecuted decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. So, according to the 2005 Constitutional Court, 94 decisions have been taken to date on the non-execution of decisions of the Constitutional Court, of which 13 have not been implemented, according to the Constitutional Court. Of the 13 non-executive decisions, five are related to the constitutional assessment requirements, and eight decisions are from the Constitutional Court's appeal jurisdiction. I ask you to taxively state exactly 13 unexecuted decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which are in question, from when they date and whom they refer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15169	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15170	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the College, distinguished MPs, MPs, fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As a respected representative said the total number of non-executive decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court 13, five of which were taken in the cases of the constitutionality of the law assessment and eight decisions made in the appeals cases. Of the five decisions concerning the assessment of constitutionality, three decisions are required to implement the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, one decision by the Federation of BiH Parliament and one decision by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. All five cases have found that the law does not comply with the provisions of Article II of the BiH Constitution relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is why lawmakers are obliged to comply with the BiH Constitution. Since bodies that were obliged to comply with the legal provisions with Constitution 4 of BiH have failed to fulfil their obligation within the deadline laid down by the BiH Constitutional Court in all five cases, the decision on the failure to implement the decision has been reached. In eight appeals cases, the decisions taken concern violations of the BiH Constitution under Article II/3 of the right to a fair hearing, then the right to personal freedom and security, and the right to property. As a result of those infringements, the enforcement of the decision is imposed on different bodies. Since bodies that were obliged to remove violations of the BiH Constitution failed to fulfil their obligation within the deadline laid down, the BiH Constitutional Court has in all eight cases made a decision on the failure to implement the decision. Since your question was to taxfully state what decisions these were and during what period of time, for a short period of time allow me to deliver it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15171	Thank you. Mrs. Majkić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15172	I have no choice but to accept the offer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15173	Thank you. Next question, MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15174	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers, and this is – What has the BiH Council of Ministers done in its jurisdiction to enable the smooth placement of chemical products produced in BiH's BiH Federation entity in the territory of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Bosnia and Herzegovina is a single country where there is one market and it is absolutely unacceptable that any part of that state violates Bosnia and Herzegovina's single economic space. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that Republika Srpska's government has made it impossible for chemical products producers, such as DITA from Tuzla, such as some producers from Pristina, Busovace, etc., to uninterruptedly place their products across the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In today's time, all should be the goal of fighting for every job, because losing every job is a loss for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, keeping a policy at the expense of workers in this country is indeed a political injustice, not to use even harder words. In that sense, I would also like to ask the BiH Council of Ministers, led by Mr Zvizdić, what made this kind of thing not happen on the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15175	Thank you. Answer, Chairman Zvizdić. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15176	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. So, the placement of chemical products from bh entities, or from the Bosnian-Herzegovina entity of the Federation of BiH in this case, on the territory of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not a matter of foreign-trade traffic, which is in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is a matter of internal transport within Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is within the jurisdiction of the entity. Although, in this sense, we do not have jurisdiction, here, we have tried to get a little more detailed on your issue and we have received information that the government of the Federation of BiH has initiated a temporary measure on such a decision, and that a draft chemical law has been launched that would urgently be addressed to the BiH Federation Parliament for adoption. Already earlier this year, parliament adopted the law in the form of a predicate so that it is expected to adopt the law in an urgent and accelerated procedure. In parallel with this, it will be necessary to implement changes and additions to certain regulations and to the bh entity Republika Srpska in order to register products, because Federation producers in Bh entity Republika Srpska must have either a new firm or their business establishment, which, of course, requires unplanned large costs, and makes producers and their products uncompetitive. So, in front of the Council of Ministers, of course, although this issue is not in our jurisdiction, we can only call on the competent entity authorities to urgently approach this issue and this problem, because this kind of treatment directly restricts the freedom of movement of goods, people and capital, which violates, as you yourself have said, the single economic market, which is not in line with the principles of democracy or the market economy that Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to. Of course, if this Parliament in the future gives greater authority to the Council of Ministers in this area, then we could guarantee that these things would no longer be happening on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15177	Thank you. Commentary, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15178	A few things in the commentary. First, I would also like to publicly urge the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers to use their influence and authority to resolve this issue as soon as possible, regardless of the limited powers of the BiH Council of Ministers. The second thing I want to say in my comment is that the obligation is both us, both in the legislative and executive authorities at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to make it very clear to all that we must respect both the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH that has precisely normised four economic freedoms. It is a complete freedom of movement of goods, capital, persons, services and that it cannot and should not be endangered in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Finally, I would like to call the MPs, here and the SNSD, there are also senior officials, and it seems to me that Špirić and the SNSD vice president are talking to the Republika Srpska entity, so that no worker would be left without a job because of such a measure. Because it is not fair to run politics across the back of workers in this country, and with such measures, we certainly lose our jobs both in the entity and in the whole state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15179	Thank you. Next question, MP Monika Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15180	I welcome all present. My question is to the Ministry of Security. I would like to rephrase it in such a way, given the Ministry of Security, and that would say – What is the state of the investigation of the problem of estrangement of motor vehicles in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and how much is this situation affecting the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina? When we see the data we're getting from the media, then it's going to be clear why this question is interesting, why it's happening now. I will only list a few references, which is that last year 1,100 cars were stolen in the Federation of BiH, and in Republika Srpska, such as the very interesting information that I received, if correct, that it is only around 172(?) Cars, which is six times smaller than the Federation. Here, my question is to the Ministry of Security to see what kind of answer I can get for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15181	Thank you. Is there anyone who can answer this question? There's no one from the Department of Security, so we don't have an answer to this question. For the next time, we expect you to get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15182	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15183	Okay, so the letter agrees that the answer should be in writing. The next question is MP Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15184	Good afternoon. Mr. Chairman, I welcome you and your co-chair, colleagues and colleagues from the Council of Ministers, all present in the Chamber. So my question was asked this way last time. Since Mr. Minister was unable to attend that session, I therefore took advantage of the opportunity to do so today. This is my question to you, which contains four or five questions, actually known from before, and you know how I asked them, so it's nothing new to you. So, - Why isn't the BiH Prosecutor's Office answering the asked questions of the MPs? That's how I quote... the questions I've asked you, I mean the Ministry of Justice, and one question in connection with the investigation of the murder of returnees and police officers in the 7th Travnik municipality. It's been over a decade and a half since the murder of father and son... of Mr Domić, Officer Valjan and Bilić, I'm interested in the legal status of these cases and whether the investigations are complete. The question was asked on 07.07.2015. The question of witnesses who provide information on the sites where remains are found is number two, the remains of persons missing in the last war found to be incorrect, whether an investigation is carried out, and on which basis a particular witness provided the information, was made on 07/09/2015. Third, repeated question about the ongoing investigation and the status of the case of the murder of Hrvat returnees in Travnik in '98. year set 02.12.2015. Fourth, the emergency on the question of the credibility of witnesses and their statements and the question of the investigation of missing Croatian prisoners in stadium camps in Bugojn on 18.12.2015. Next question, the issue of the ongoing investigation into the crimes in Travnik Municipality of killing five Hrvat from the village of Miletici in April '93. and killing 32 prisoners of HVO and civilians in the village of Bikoshi in June '93, set up 28.12.2015. And the question of the murder of Ivo Ivoš is whether the case has ever been prosecuted, in which the prosecution and whether the procedure for determining those responsible has been put in place on 13 January 2016. I asked for this question to be provided with an answer without any intention of insisting on an answer that would potentially disrupt or compromise court proceedings. I don't think I need to explain, therefore, how many times I've asked for this, and that's why I was forced to refer the initiative to the session last time that the Rules of Procedure is also changing to reach one conclusion, and my initiative is to the working committee that this part of the Rules of Procedure is changing when it comes to getting answers. Well, here, please answer today if the minister is able. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15185	Thank you. The Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15186	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, we received your answers to your questions late last night, and I must inform you that the answers, since you have six questions, are also very extensive, that we are not here now, please send them in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15187	Thank you. Commentary, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15188	So thank you, but for everything that's happened to me in a year and more, I have to comment on this. So, respected colleagues and fellow witnesses are that there is no session after July 2015, where I did not ask for an answer to the questions I repeat today. To my question about the arrest of six members of the HVO from the Oxygens I sent to the VSTV, I finally got an answer from a disciplinary judge that I could seek justice as if I were a party to the proceedings. I'll remind you, after the inappropriate arrest of these persons, according to my information, they were all released without any evidence of what they were charged with, and half of them were released in the process of pressing charges. You are also witnesses, respected colleagues and colleagues, that a number of remarks have been made to the BiH Prosecutor's Office's report on the work and that 8 are the same because of these remarks most often rejected. After much... and seeking answers for what is happening in the prosecution, a review of the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office on the proposal of the OSCE, which Mrs Korner made in June 2016, on the subject of the process of early crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So in this report, Mrs. Korner, for example. ... the following findings, in points 34 and 55, were found to be the judge's main prosecutor-in-chief-obsessed by a self-successful result in a statistical... rather than a high-quality indictment. In points 38 and 94, the court has found that in some cases the charges have been returned to do so because of the lack of experience of most prosecutors, while the chief prosecutor considers the problem in judges who do not know the law. In points 39 and 40, the Report speaks that prosecutors do what they're told when... the prosecutor isn't... making any decisions. [[Employee is warned on time]] I apologize, just a little bit, another five, six sentences. Point 51 refers to the absence of a labour policy within the Prosecutor's Office on the basis of which priorities and criteria for the conclusion of the case would be established, etc. If anyone cares about the rule of law and justice and equality, then I am sure it is for the Croatian people. The latest events – the arrest of 10 members of the Ori HVO for this cannot be accepted with confidence and after all that I have previously said and much that I have not. In the end, you know that a disciplinary judge has initiated a strict case against the chief prosecutor, which only actually confirms everything that has been said and unsaid in this matter. I understand that this situation will not solve any of my questions, in which here I cannot even get a courteous answer, and I am sure that this can only solve structural reform in this area and find ways to regulate the responsibilities of the work of certain The prosecutor and the evaluations of their work, which, according to my information, has been trying to do VSTV for a long time. [[Employee is warned on time]] As a representative in this House, I can only say that we will be watching over a case that is most recent because of what I have said and what I have not said and, therefore, it is clear from this brief address that everything is happening in the prosecution. So, and there's no story, so these days being said that, therefore, unfounded attention is drawn to the work of the prosecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15189	Mr. Lovrinović, we have a agenda item – Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, so you can...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15190	Shall I say it again? Well, here, I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15191	I'm asking you to stick to the rules because we have a lot of questions, it's going to take these two now if we keep going over time. The next is Ambassador Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15192	I thank the chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. So, I'll be very brief. My question has been asked to the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, it is very simple – When can we expect the adoption of the Law on Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Nine, that's what I'm explaining to the next one. So I think we're the only country in the world that doesn't have a law on foreign affairs. It's on one side. On the other hand, the audit reports, which were conducted from 2003 to 2015, highlighted the non-compliance of this Act each year. The failure to bring this Law, therefore, has provided for a series of other objections that the revision has seen, so here I would like to see, or hear when this Law will see, or come to light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15193	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15194	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. It is actually addressed to the right address and that is the BiH Presidency, but since there is no one outside the BiH Presidency, here, I will try to answer that question in the shortest of its... content elements. As you have said, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been functioning for many years without the Foreign Affairs Act, which is indeed a major obstacle to the work and ministry and the complete diplomatic and consular network of Bosnia and Herzegovina worldwide. This is what they are, and you brought it up yourself in your question, you warned state auditors in your reports. A recent report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2015 on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs drew particular attention to the need for the adoption of the BiH Foreign Affairs Act. Point 3 of the report stated that there were no new activities in the process of adopting the Foreign Affairs Act during 2015, while previous reports found that the Ministry made up a proposal addressed to the BiH presidency to submit comments, but there were no further activities related to the proposal. The current composition of the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, within their respective responsibilities, once again raised the issue of draft law and there is indeed a very clear commitment to resolve this issue in the coming period, because the fact is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is practically the only country in the region that does not have this Law and should be taken into account by all participants and actors working on the drafting of this Law. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that Bosnia and Herzegovina's current foreign policy is based on a document adopted by the BiH presidency back in 2003, under the name of the General Guidelines and priorities for the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. Therefore, as a positive moment, I can stress the fact that a working group was formed in mid-2016, whose task is to make this legal solution. All three members of the BiH presidency, as well as the Foreign Ministry, have representatives in the task force and have given very clear guidance to the working group what should be done in a... time period. And she not only needs to prepare the Foreign Affairs Act but also to analyse in which part we need to refresh our foreign policy guidelines in order to bring about a new foreign-political strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also prepare material for a more serious analysis of the functioning of our diplomatic-consular network. I remind you that Bosnia and Herzegovina has 44 embassies, 6 consulates, 6 permanent missions, and indeed such a large system must be very clearly regulated. 10 As for your answer to the question when we can expect the adoption of the Foreign Affairs Act, we cannot answer fully at this time the term itself because it is conditioned by two factors. The first is the effectiveness of this task force in terms of forming a bill, but we think it will be in the next A few months away from March next year, and the second factor is, and I end it, is the political nature and need for all actors in Bosnia and Herzegovina to understand the importance of adopting this law, and then also in the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to provide a sufficient majority of votes that would adopt such an important strategic document for the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina's DKP. [[the chairman warns on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15195	Thank you. Commentary, Mr. Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15196	I thank the chairman. I think the answer was a complete exhaustion and encouragement, in my opinion, but I must point out one thing that, therefore, expecting questions from the EU that are about 3,000 will certainly be one of these issues. And the other thing I have to say is that it's recorded here that the Law has not regulated and a number of other failures that have been observed, which the revision has seen, and which are also being dragged and at least 10 and 12 years, 10, 12, 11, etc., etc. I think the law, that it will take as soon as possible to come and adopt itself as soon as possible. Thank you very much, but I'm going to ask this to be in oral form so that we can sometimes be called in writing so that we can appeal to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15197	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. My question is Minister Bevanda, but this time as chairman of the Management Board of indirect taxation. At the last meeting of the Customs and Foreign Trade Commission, FIPA representatives presented the Report on Foreign Direct Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina as one of the key problems that deters foreign investors from investing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The procedure, according to FIPA representatives, takes several months. Mr. Bevanda, if you knew about this problem if something has been done, and if you are not here, please and I urge you to, using your authority of the president, together with management, solve this problem which certainly shouldn't be a problem in a process called the direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15199	Thank you. 11 Minister Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15200	I welcome you all, and I want successful work. I'll be very brief, because the question was simple and direct. At the 12th session of the Management Board of the Irregular Taxation Board, held on 02/09/2016, the Regulation on amendments to the Irregular Taxation and Registration Regulations was adopted and entered into force on 21/09/2016 by publication in the Official Messenger of BiH, number 68/16. Amendments and additions to the Regulation in order to speed up the registration and registration procedure in the Single Register of Indirect Taxes, inter alia, have been made to comply with the rules governing the work and residence of foreigners in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and have been allowed to deliver the document of the competent authority in accordance with the rules relating to foreign nationals, responsible persons or entrepreneurs. Foreign nationals who are responsible for persons or owners of applicants for registration and registration in the Single Register are also allowed to deliver, instead of a passport, another identification document which is valid for travel abroad. It is noted that the amendments and additions to the Regulation in question have been deleted and a provision laying down the conditions for voluntary registration... VAT and thus facilitate the voluntary registration procedure for VAT to newly established entities unless circumstances require certain insurance measures to be taken. Finally, in relation to the question raised, we also note that, in some cases, registration procedures of particularly indirect taxes last longer than the law of the prescribed period for the simple reason that foreign citizens who are responsible persons or owners of legal persons who apply for registration are delivering incomplete documents and requests to the Administration and this takes longer. Here, thank you for asking, and I'm gonna deliver this to the FIPA, because she should have been aware that we brought this back a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15201	Thank you. poslanik Mešić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15202	Well, it's a pleasure when you get a direct answer on a direct question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15203	Thank you. Next letter from Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15204	I thank the chairman. 12 My question was addressed to the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Adil Osmanović. In fact, we could read in the media these days that the BiH Appeals Commission cancelled two tenders at the Identification Documents Agency. One tender refers to building a building in Banja Luka and its value is 15.2 million. Some information that I have, I would like the minister to say whether they are correct, say that unfortunately the past Council of Ministers has given the agreement to build one 9,000 square-square building for the Agency alone, although it uses only 2.5 thousand square-squares and in 9,000 m2 you can accommodate all agencies, all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina located in Banja Luka. The second tender that was annulled refers to the purchase of passports forms and its value is 20 million. Given what was going on in the past period at the Agency for Identification Documents, and if that epilogue had been given into the BiH Prosecutor's Office's investigation, which has not yet seemed to be completed, I would ask the minister to give us detailed information on these two tenders. And in advance, let me say that he has our full support to conduct a detailed investigation into these two tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15205	Thank you. Minister Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15206	Honorable chairman, esteemed MPs. To this asked question, which Commissioner Aleksandra Pandurević has asked for a truly detailed answer. As you have said for a long time, an investigation into the BiH Prosecutor's Office's procurement of passports is being conducted, then public opinion and citizenship interest in the procurement of these documents as well. Yesterday afternoon we received a reply from the Agency for Identification Documents on three densely typed pages, I would ask to forward this to you in writing, because in two minutes I really couldn't give the exact answers as you asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15207	Thank you, Minister Osmanović. Mrs. Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15208	I thank the Minister. I would ask you, here, to forward me that answer you received. In any case, depending on the answer, if it turns out, I want to say that it has the responsibility of the current management, that you will have our full support to start and question their responsibilities and let's see, to find out, because, I repeat, these are huge financial resources, and it's particularly worrying that in the passport, in the tender for the purchase of forms mentioning the company that was also in the famous affair of the ID card. I think we should clear these things up and cut things off and put them in place, and I'd be happy if you could pass me the answer you got. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15209	Thank you. Next letter from Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15210	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome all who follow or participate in today's session. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and it refers to the setting of the border crossing marks and the proximity of the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's about the next one. In view of the fact that our border crossings are in extremely poor condition, this has also been the case here on several occasions, and also in relation to this marking, I think that the chairman, Mr Džaferović, once asked, I have asked on several occasions, but we know that he is in charge of border crossings of the Directorate for indirect taxation, but this time it is not about them in the management of the Ministry of Transport and Communication, this issue is therefore why I am asking them – why has not yet realised the project of replacement and renewal of labels and other traffic signals that mark the border crossings and their area, the proximity of the border line, and the way of setting these markings and signals, that is why, despite all the conditions still not even being met for the job? Although it is known, firstly, that four years ago, so in 2012, a regulation that regulates it was adopted, secondly, that, on the basis of the Regulation two years ago, in '14, a project documentation under the same name was made and that, for the realization of this project, almost 800,000 KM had been provided for more than one year ago, and that, finally, almost a year ago, all tender documentation had been prepared. So it's all over until the tendering phase, and that's where it stops. Not questioning whose drawer it is, and why has everything that has been done under these four points remained locked down, yet the question remains what is waiting for, for what reasons and for what purpose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15211	Thank you. Minister Jusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15212	Dear Chairmans and deputies, I warmly welcome you. I would like to thank you for this question to the esteemed representative. You said one fact that's been following me for the past five months, and that a lot of things have been in drawers and trust me that 70% of our working time, when I say our colleague at the Ministry, we've been working on realising things that have been in drawers for years. The project you have listed is not the only one who has been pulled out and your question is particularly pleased that just 15 days ago we gave a instructions to the College about exactly what you were talking about, so I'm going to give you a brief and summary answer to your question. The time frame for the implementation of this project is by the end of 2018. Taking into account the procedure for resolving the previous minister, and the time until the appointment of the new Minister of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the adoption of the Order to conduct an investigation by the Prosecutor's Office, which is why the competent sector has suspended the assistant minister and state officials, the implementation of this project is at a certain stage of delay, which is compensated by the urgent appointment of new members of the Commission for the implementation of this procedure, and 14 is expected as soon as possible, I believe already next week. We will launch this tender as soon as possible and we will be pleased to inform you and the other representatives and MPs about the dynamics of this work. We will not wait, you are absolutely right, this is already waiting for a second time, regardless of what is planned by the end of 2018, and as I have announced we will watch this happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15213	Thank you, Minister. Commentary, MP Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15214	Thank you to the Honorable Minister Juski. It is certain, since this has been going on since 2012 that someone can't name him as a braker, but isn't it a lot to do and the Regulation and all that I've listed and that it's a deadline 2018. From 2012 to 2018 it is six years to set up tables, that there is also the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina or I don't know which signalling, and we also know that the Direct Taxation Administration is almost maternally related to border crossings and I simply can't believe that it takes six years for such tables to be placed with all problems both at the crossing and in terminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15215	Thank you. Next question, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Mr. Mehmedović, it's your turn to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15216	Thank you. My question is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mr Šarović – What has the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations done specifically on the preparation of energy projects and their running towards EU funds, and what are the projects specifically about regardless of the stage of preparation? In view of the fact that on several occasions I followed the media at some international conferences, there were talks on candidateing projects in the area of infrastructure and energy where certain capital projects in the area of infrastructure are listed, e.g. This epochal project builds the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, so I am interested – What are the specific projects in the field of energy that are running and at what stage are they realized?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15217	Thank you. Minister Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15218	I'm taking the opportunity to greet you all. 15 Dear MP, the European Commission is using the so-called EU funds as its basis for running for funding from European funds. It's a PECI list. It is a list formed by the Energy Community whose member, full member of Bosnia and Herzegovina, currently holds 35 projects, regional projects. Five projects are related to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am only talking about regional projects. All other projects are on some other lists, i.e. entities, the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska are independently forming their lists for energy projects because they are both authorised and authorised. A on a special list for energy projects for so-called China's "16+1" platform is a special list, but your question was only for those projects related to EU funds and I will read them, those projects that are in different stages of processing and which have passed the NIK, i.e. the National Investment Committee of BiH, which is the final, final place where the projects go further for running, which is: Lička Jasenica Gas Interconnection – Tržac – Bosanska Krupa, Bosnia and Herzegovina – Croatia. Gas interconnection... – Posusje – Novi Travnik with a branch for Mostar, also a regional project in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Then 400 kV of the Visegrad Interconnection – Bajina Basta – Pljeva, the regional project Bosnia and Herzegovina – Serbia – Montenegro, for the project is perhaps the most prepared, a feasibility study has been done and, I would say, all phases, as well as the next 400 kV project of Banja Luka – Lika, it is a project of regional Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and it is currently in the phase of producing a feasibility study. The 35 project list also includes a project of the Adriatic-Ionian pipeline, IAP, i.e. the TAP IAP for which Bosnia and Herzegovina, along with Albania, Montenegro and Croatia, expressed interest. It is about projects for European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15219	Thank you. Mr. Mehmedović's commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15220	I thank Mr. Šarović for his reply. I'm satisfied with the answer and I'd ask if it's possible to be delivered to me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15221	Thank you. Next question, Ambassador Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15222	Good afternoon, everyone. The question I will ask concerns the BiH Prosecutor's Office, but due to business circumstances, I am asking it to the BiH Ministry of Justice, or Minister Grubeša. I have to say because of the time I asked the question, but also the scope of this question, that I do not expect here a valid oral answer, but I ask you to forward it to the D.A.'s office in order to possibly get a written answer, which is very important to me. In addition to this question, I have provided a list of camps and prisons where Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Council of Defense and civilians were imprisoned in the last war. The list is the result of the work of the Croatian Association of Campers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Association that is properly registered and has its own address, phone and website on which this can be found, it brings together thousands of defenders and civilians in these camps. The list lists over 400 different 16 locations where about two to three thousand people were held, of course different nationalities. The question for the prosecution is: Do you have any knowledge of the locations in this list, do you have any knowledge of the possible crimes committed at those locations and how far the investigation is conducted, is there also how many indictments have been brought about in these locations, are there also how many convictions are related to these locations? Of course this is my question in the context of current events and in Orasje, but even before Orasja, I would say because of the structure of state judicial institutions, but even more of the entity state institutions dealing with different research and investigations on the basis of which different charges are being filed by bh Hrvat in general, and especially by members of the Croatian Council of Defense and Victims feel fear and mistrust. I think you're all witnessing these days of that fear and mistrust. This is, I would say, the most drastic and painful example of the institutional imbalance and inequality of Hrvat and BiH. I hope that this issue of mine will not be seen as a pressure on the judiciary, nor a threat to the investigation, it seems to me that it is very important for the prosecution to change the way it communicates with the public, including this Parliament, and the perception of the public about its work. So far, communication has been followed by quite a large dose of autism, arrogance and haughtiness, which we have witnessed in this House as well. Given the personal changes I hope to change these practices as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15223	Thank you. The Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15224	Thank you very much. So, the esteemed representative of the Justice Ministry immediately sent this to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, who, by electronic means, responded to us yesterday, quote – After receiving the parliamentary question and the contribution entitled "Logs under the rule of the Army of the Republic of RS" we inform you that we cannot answer Mr. Kožul's question within a short period of time, since from the part of the contributions that are legible results in a search for over 400 locations and a large number of data. We note that it is necessary for Mr. Kožul to provide us with more legible documents and, accordingly, to leave us with a deadline enough to answer the parliamentary question, which cannot be shorter than seven working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15225	Thank you. Mr. Kožul, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15226	Thank you for your response. Anyway, I'm going to deliver this material more readable, it's available on the website I mentioned and thank you for your response, thank you for the up-to-dateness of the prosecution in this part of the answer. It seems important to say that the judicial institutions, and in particular the Prosecutor's Office 17 must work independently, impartially and quality, but because of the sensitivity of this job, especially the issue of war crimes, I would say, too, it is important that communication with the public regarding these issues is both quality and good, of course within the limits of what can be communicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15227	Thank you. Next question, MP Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15228	Chairman of Bosiću, Chairman of Zvizdić, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. I refer the issue to the Council of Ministers for a reason, not the Directorate for European Integration, and I do not expect today's answer, it is Bosnia and Herzegovina's IPA funds. The reason for the question is this: we do not know anything about the whole procedure, the effects and the surveillance. I am interested – What are the individual projects financed from IPA funds in recent years, how have these projects been selected, and who has been monitoring? What are the effects of this at all, and why does Bosnia and Herzegovina allow itself not to take as much action as it can, and especially where is the responsibility not to spend what is available when we know today that these areas need investment funds and that it is a quality source for such a thing? In particular, I would like to say that this Parliament has a responsibility in these procedures too, the documents of this Parliament say that we are overseeing the spending of funds from IPA funds, and we are in a position not to know which projects they are or how they are taking place. And I would beg in that sense a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15229	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić. Isolate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15230	Thank you. The question asked by the esteemed representative Škaljić, of course, requires a little longer elaborate. I will deliver the question in writing in more detail, now only in a few very brief clear notes. When we talk about IPA funds located for Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we talk about the IPA State Programme for the period 2007-2013 and 2014-2017. When we talk about IPA funds for the period 2007-2013, a total of 449m euros or 88% of the estimated amount of such funds were agreed on on 1 March 2016. At the moment this Report was presented, it was on 16 March 2016, in the implementation process for IPA I, there were 85 project contracts that were implemented by companies selected in tendering, implementing and concluding the EU Delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As regards the IPA II programme, the indicative IPA II strategic document for Bosnia and Herzegovina refers to a period of four years, instead of the entire duration of the IPA instrument of seven years, i.e. for the period 2014-2020, and it includes four sectors for possible IPA II support, these are: democracy and internal affairs, 18 rule of law and human rights, competitiveness and innovation, and the fourth sector is education, employment and social policy. Unfortunately, IPA was not extended in 2014 for the period 2014-2020 because there was a lack of support for key investment sectors such as transport, environment, energy and agriculture, because of the lack of strategic documents at the state level. In the meantime, one of these documents was adopted, it's transport, we start building on a strategy, an energy strategy, so we're going to create assumptions that we're going to expand IPA for the period 2018-2020 and expand them to these sectors as well. As regards the amount for IPA II 2014-2017, it is 165.8m euros, of which for the period from '14. And '15. wastes 39.7m euros, for 2016 it is 42m euros and for 2017 it is 43.7m euros. As regards the basis for the establishment of a project list under IPA II as an indicative strategic document... Bosnia and Herzegovina, such basics are prepared by the European Commission, and they mean defining priorities for the use and programming of pre-accession instruments for Bosnia for the period 2014-2018. When we talk about spending control, the monitoring of the spending of the IPA programme is being carried out by the European Commission, since Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet taken over the management of EU funds before certain preconditions are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15231	Thank you. Mr. Škaljić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15232	Thank you, Dr. Zvizdić. I set it up because of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the least of the procedures in the region, not because there are no funds, but because the overall mechanism is such that we haven't had enough coordination. The European Commission has its share of responsibility here, and it does not work completely on its own, is in co-ordination with local authorities. And my goal was to, by answering this question, initiate procedures that would allow us to be more effective in this regard. When the answer is written I will consult with him in our Commission for European Integration, we have already talked about it, I believe there is room for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15233	Thank you. Next question, MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. I refer the issue to the Minister of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the process of financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Traffic, it was found that BHDCA, a Bosnian-Herzegovina Civil Aviation Directorate, did not make any revenue from the compensation paid by passengers leaving the airport in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the fees paid by aircraft operators per tonne of cargo, a burden on civil air traffic. According to estimates, no significant amounts were charged during that period, in example 19 works in 2015 about 2 million marks. Although BHDCA also published in the 2012 "Official Messenger" a decision on the level of compensation paid by operators by a transported passenger in departure and compensation paid per tonne of transported goods, the operational implementation of the provision of this Decision has never been provided, according to the various views of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Ministry of Communications and Traffic of BiH on the subject. I note that the obligation to adopt this Decision is prescribed by the provisions of the Aviation Act, which was adopted in 2009 in May. Since not implementing this Decision is a violation of the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask the Minister of Communications and Transport: 1. Has the decision in question been implemented in 2016? 2. If so, how much revenue was achieved in January – September 2016, and if it is not considered responsible for the violation of the Air Force Act and the resulting financial damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina due to the non-payment of the fee in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15235	Thank you. Minister Jusko. Isolate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15236	Dear Representative Sokolović, thank you for asking. Another item dating back to the period before my appointment, but we're working on it, as I said at the previous point. In view of the different views of competent entity ministries and airport companies, on the one hand, and BHDCA, on the other hand, on that Decision, is the same in the final phase. In particular, the corrections made by the Decision proposal in relation to the proposal prepared by BHDCA, which consists of a transitional period for the application of this Decision, and a new proposal for a decision proposed a fee as follows: in 2017 – 1 KM per passenger and 20 KM per tonne of cargo, in 2018 – the fee will be 2 KM per passenger and 30 KM per tonne of cargo, and since 2019 – the fee would be charged in full amount and 3 KM per passenger and 40 KM per tonne of freight. This is how the proposed decision has been corrected to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers and we expect the Council of Ministers of the Proposal to consider the decision within the next month, and if the same application of this Decision could be agreed on from 01.01.2017. On the basis of the planned revenues, it should be pointed out that they are the same planned although the entity ministries and the airport companies have voiced opposition to the content of the Decision. Also, according to the proposal for a decision, the compensation is BHDCA's revenue, not Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, and BHDCA uses it for the following purposes: employment, specialist training of aviation personnel, financing of certain projects in civil aviation areas, technical training, paying compensation to airport operators for the collection of revenues on transported passengers and goods, and leaving the airport in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As I said, it's a problem that's been in existence for a long time and we've been working intensively on it, and we just had a meeting with BHDCA representatives 10 days ago, and I want to do this problem in the shortest time, not to go into 2017 with what the audit has put on us, so to speak, on the task of solving. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15237	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sokolović's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15238	Well, I thank Mr. Secretary for the information. I'm glad that this problem at the Ministry has come to light and started to be realized. I hope that exactly according to this diagram, which the minister has just said, that story will be initiated, we will follow the work and see if what the minister said today can be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15239	Thank you. Next question, MP Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15240	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. My question was asked, in fact, I'm asking the BiH Ministry of Finance, actually Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda, because the finances are always current and there really are one set of questions, but here's a shorter question for today. – How much funding for the implementation of multi-annual capital projects in 2015 has been realised, and how much has been transferred in 2016, and why is this slowness in the realization of these capital projects in some institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I'll Komentarisaću on the answer later.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15241	Thank you. Here you go, Minister Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15242	Say hello to everyone again. In 2015, the total available funds from the budget of institutions on behalf of multi-annual projects amounted to 189,395,345,45(?) Marks, of which 152 million are regular budgets, so-called Fund 10, then 191 000 dedicated funds from the surplus of RAK revenue – fund 20, 3 million 200 from UMTS revenue – fund 50, as well as the amount of 17 and 200 from the loan funds – fund 40, while the available grant of IPA grants – fund 30 amounted to 15,896,000 Total implementation of multiannual projects from the institutions' budget in 2015 without donations from IPA Grants amounted to 44 million, which is only 23.5% compared to the planned size, of which 34 million are financed from regular budgets, and 10 million from UMTS appropriations and 10 million financed from IPA grants – fund 30. In the reporting period, there was no realisation of the dedicated assets from the accumulated surplus of RAC revenue and the credit allocations. In the context of the implemented funds on behalf of multi-annual projects for 2015, the highest executions relate to the project of implementation of the so-called The NCTS system, the holder of which is an IPA grant, amounting to 9 million 300, the construction of a state prison, an implementation unit of 8 million 370, of which the maximum amount of 21 is financed from the IPA grant, i.e. from the 30 fund, the construction and equipment of the Gradiška border crossing unit, whose holder is an indirect management of 7 million and 700 total of which from the Fund 10, means regular income, expenditure and from the UMT facility is one smaller amount, the purchase of an institution's accommodation facility in the framework of the Joint Affairs Service of 6 million and 500, the information and strengthening of the capacity of judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the holder of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, totalling 3 million and 600, of which from the budget funds of millions and 800 and 800 million and 800 from the Fund of 30. The project SDH system of transfer to the IDDEA of millions and 700, the purchase of special equipment for OSA in the amount of millions and 300, the construction of a permanent accommodation facility for the Educational and Professional Compensation Agency of millions and 200, the project of reconstruction of the facility on the Street of Marshall Tito in Sarajevo for the installation of institutions within the Joint Affairs Service of a million from the Fund 10, noting that the project is permanently completed. Construction and equipment of the facility for the Regional Centre of the Office for indirect taxation in Sarajevo of 909 thousand, census of the population, households and dwellings of the Statistics Agency 700, Construction of a base for accommodation and training of special support units to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection 440, headquarters of the Foreign Affairs and Terena center Sarajevo 418, border crossings of the Vardište, Uvac, Gorica, Ivanica, Deleuša, Užljebić 279, first phase... in the interior of the courtyard within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 264, the Azilant Centre of the Ministry of Security [[Minister is warned on time]] [[Minister is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15243	If you can put it in writing, if there's more.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15244	I can, however you like, here and just to say that, it was transferred to, untapped funds for these purposes in 2016, 144,816,656 thousand marks. The question came in time, we prepared a detailed answer and we will deliver in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15245	Thank you. Mr. Fazlić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15246	Well, I'm pleased and we MPs know about these numbers, I've asked for another reason to draw attention to a large number of neutral funds. I'm happy to get it in writing so we can comment on it further. You forgot to mention that the Return Fund, which is very important, only has a realization of 35% and that's what asked me to ask this question. The large funds are being transferred and here my goal is that the Council of Ministers and those who plan capital projects plan this better, that these funds are being spent faster, because in a situation like this, economically having so many neutral assets is really a luxury for such a country as Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm satisfied with the answer, but in order to be completely satisfied, I expect to get it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15247	Here's the minister says he had a prepared answer, but because of the time, he didn't make it to the end, so he'll send it all in writing. 22 Next question, MP Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15248	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've wanted to hear a few times now about what a system solution is about that even development and investment in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there was no possibility of having a physically present chairman so I didn't get an answer. I would ask that he, in a way, prepare himself in writing, and I will restore it again at the next session that issue. And here I am now going with the question – What has the Council of Ministers done specifically so far to realise the initiatives I have previously led, and regarding the status of border crossings in the Unsko-Sanski Canton, the construction of new lanes and the reduction of traffic at the Maljevac border crossing, the re-tegorisation and opening of the small-scale crossings of Tržačka Rastela, Hadjin Potok and Plazikur, the prevention of the construction of the radioactive waste dump site in Trvaga Gora, and the establishment of the function of the Union railway, and what has been dealt with specifically, and what are the conclusions from the meeting with the new prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, which was recently held here in Sarajevo and his meeting with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and other officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15249	Thank you. Can I help you? Can I help you? Chairman Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15250	I thank the representative for these six questions, and I will try to answer these questions in two minutes. So, by the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings, the Velika Klajuda border pelaza – Maljevac has been defined as a border crossing for international traffic of passengers and goods, as well as by the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on common locations, this border crossing has been defined as a common location located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Given that Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent border services at this crossing use the locations and facilities of the border services of the Republic of Croatia's Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH, as the service responsible for the construction, equipment and maintenance of border crossings, in this case it is not competent or authorised to take any action on that border crossing in another country's territory. However, due to the need to speed up the flow of people and goods at this border crossing, the Authority, together with the BiH Border Police and the Croatian Border Services, has already taken action to consider the possibility of introducing a reversible lane, i.e. one of the existing traffic lanes to activate as a lane of exit or entrance for passenger motor vehicles or freight vehicles depending on the frequency period of passenger or goods traffic and these activities are at the final stage of their realization. As regards the retegorisation of border crossings with neighbouring countries, in this case with the Republic of Croatia, it is a matter of joint work of mixed committees in charge of monitoring the implementation of contracts between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border pellages and agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic. The initiatives have been launched and we are waiting for a report from the mixed committees following their meeting to take place as far as possible by the end of this year. 23 When we talk about the possible disposal of nuclear waste at the location of Trgovina Gora, the process is monitored by our resolution ministry and by the Agency for Radiation and Nuclear Security. In line with the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, a working group consisting of delegates from all levels of government, 13 members, we have already become signatories to important conventions and in this sense I think we will successfully resolve this issue that will not be realised at any damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have such promises, and this issue will certainly be what we will propose for the agenda of the joint session between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As for the UN railway, a few meetings were held, on the first of April 19th, afterwards, our distinguished Minister Jusko met with a resorient, or colleague from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia and concluded that in the area of rail transport, indeed, the priority will be the Unska railway itself, the amendments and addition of the existing agreements will be implemented, followed by a project phase, and then a plan for its implementation. So each of these issues will certainly be a proposal ahead of the Council of Ministers at a joint session between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've talked about all these issues and I think they're going in a positive direction, towards mutual understanding, good neighbourly co-operation, and not in any way that can harm one or another country in any way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15251	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15252	Well, I'd like to really, and especially our citizens would like our institutions to be so effective that we don't have to repeat the question twice, and where are we going to ask it five times, so that we have to look for six answers, as you said, to give six answers to six questions. So, the key thing is, now that we hear this and today your exposure, most of all there is in your presentation of some declarative commitment that we've been listening to for the past year. I really can't understand that we're not able to open an extra tape that people don't have to wait at the border two hours to cross the border. So I think if, to that extent, we're talking about things that we have, that kind of problem that we can't solve in Bosnia and Herzegovina or make some kind of deal with our neighbours, then we really need to ask ourselves questions we all do here together. So, it is true that, because I have endured these initiatives so many times, but I also find it awkward when I have to repeat myself so much, sometimes I become myself, not to say, and I call on the institutions in this sense to accept this as a priority, that in this sense we see that our representatives went to Zagreb, went to our neighbours, institutions in the neighbouring country and finally appeared among those people there, the one where these border crossings, especially they, therefore, appeared in front of these people, took responsibility and finally solved these people's problem. So, Chairman, I'd be happiest if I never had to ask you this question again, but I'm gonna keep doing this until we finally finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15253	Okay, thank you. 24 Here I will only read to you Article 167(3) – an MP may ask one parliamentary question for up to 2 minutes. The issue must be brief and clearly formulated and generally such that it can be answered immediately and without preparation. So I also ask the MPs that they have in their matters this provision of the Rules of Procedure. Next question, MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15254	My question is addressed to President Zvizdić, and I hope that it is clear enough and that this question can be answered. I wonder if the recently completed Riga Summit "16+1" has signed a financial part of the Treaty for the Construction of Block 7 Thermopower Plant in Tuzla and if this Treaty is signed I would like you to tell me who provides guarantees for the same, and did you accept by that signature that Bosnia and Herzegovina is returning credit if, due to the low electricity price, the project is ineligible or did you accept that illegal part of the complete project done by the former government of the Federation of BiH and Electroprived BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15255	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15256	I would like to thank the representative for the question. I did not attend the signing of the Financial Part of the Block 7 Treaty in Riga because it was two completely separate processes of Prime Minister China+16 and the signing of such and similar agreements and contracts, and therefore we did not give any guarantees before the Council of Ministers, accept any loans or any other specifics concerning the construction of the Termoelectrica in Tuzla. This is done by the competent authorities, in this case by entity governments who, in accordance with their laws, on debt, debt and guarantees will provide the necessary guarantees for such infrastructure projects. The Council of Ministers' task, i.e. what we are doing, what we are doing and what we continue to do, is to support, in accordance with our competences, those projects that are being run by lower levels of government for which, in terms of support, assistance or support from the Council of Ministers and which are in line with the strategic plans of building projects in the area of transport infrastructure, energy infrastructure or any other important projects essential for maintaining the overall system at the level of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I know, Tuzla is a replacement thermoblock, and in that sense, the Council of Ministers only in this sense gives support to the construction of such objects, but on all other issues, so we have neither been present nor signed anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15257	Thank you. Commentary, MP Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15258	Well, I can say that I am partially satisfied with the answer, but I hope because of the capital project for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the one who doesn't understand it wrong, this is the 25th replacement block that will produce almost 30% of the electricity in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the bloc that will lead us to remain energy independent. You, chairman of Zvizdić, as well as I know that the Federation of BiH does not have an energy strategy and therefore cannot bring a strategy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as Mr Šarović knows, the strategy was adopted in Republika Srpska. I hope that you will use your influence to finish mixing around Block 7 and to raise private thermopower plants in any mines and that this project, but in accordance with the laws and state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation, will lead to the end and ensure that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina remain energy independent and provide work for thousands of mines past that party mine of your colleague for which you push certain strategic projects. I hope that this project will be at the top of the Council of Ministers' list and that you will take it a little more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15259	Thank you. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15260	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, ministers. My question was addressed, therefore, to the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Security,... how did the Council of Ministers determine on this – why has a long period of stay of passengers on the crossing, so that entering and leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Šepak International Border Crossing Point been present? This has been going on for years. I once asked that question, unfortunately nothing was done. This is an extremely important border crossing for, and for, not only the citizens of Zvornik municipality, this problem is therefore debated at the City Assembly of Zvornik, it is extremely important for citizens of the eastern part of Republika Srpska, for citizens of the Tuzlan Canton and Sarajevo areas and I think it would be extremely important to speed up these procedures, certainly not jeopardising or disabling any entry that would be misused. I believe that the Border Police and the Directorate for Direct Taxation must find an answer in this sense, since a significant number of children are learning high school, from the municipality of Zvornik in Loznica and vice versa, and a significant number of workers are also travelling, and this creates a negative image of Bosnia and Herzegovina at this international border crossing which is therefore registered as an international border crossing for travellers and not goods only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15261	Thank you. Here's because we don't have representatives of the Ministry of Security, it's already given information about it and you can either ask in writing or ask for the next question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15262	I expect, thank you, I expect an answer in writing, after that I will be, I will determine whether to ask, uh, a direct question or to have a comment on it. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15263	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Špirić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15264	So my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, specifically the Ministry of Finance, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda, in fact, the question is – at what stage is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions in line with the observations of the competent parliamentary committees of both the home of this Parliament, in fact where we are today, at which point we are towards this integrated solution so that, therefore, we do not stop the trend of individual demands or... in law, but in order to facilitate the implementation of this system law? So why didn't we get that proposal by now? I do not prevent MPs from applying individually, but it seems to me that this whole solution that we expect from the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry, would solve problems in the application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15265	Thank you. Minister Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15266	Say hello to everyone again. I'm going to talk a little faster now, but I'm just going to give the facts a little bit shorter. I have a need. At the 20th meeting of the Council of Ministers on 25.08.2015, a decision was taken on the adoption of a wage and bid policy in institutions for '15-'18. And that was our basis for making laws, amending the Law on Salaries. The Parliament Assembly's House of Representatives adopted conclusions at its 15th session on 22 July asking the Council of Ministers to draw up and submit a comprehensive systematic proposal for a legal solution that regulates pay and compensation issues and all of this, as well as changes that regulate areas and compliance with other laws, means, in addition to the Law on Salaries, the Law on State Service, the Law on Labour in BiH Institutions and the Law on Conflict of Interest in Institutions. The Council of Ministers at the 18th session, held on 03.08.2015, is familiar with the conclusion. The Ministry of Finance has been tasked with developing this Law and stressed the need to particularly regulate the situation in which the Police Body Coordination Directorate is located, in fact it is a administrative organisation established after the adoption of the existing Law on Salaries and Employees of this Directorate do not have the right to add as is the case with SIPA, Border Police, etc. and so much closer. This issue was referred to by the Office for the Audit of Institutions in its reports and made constant recommendations to address this. As far as chronology is concerned, the Council of Ministers laid down at the 32nd session of 19.11. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and the proposal was established and forwarded in the follow-up procedure. After many obstructions on this road to Parliament, the proposal was set out to Parliament on 09.01.2016 with various games and games, it was complained of obtaining an opinion... although the law does not comply with the acquis. And then on the Constitutional Commission that Law was returned. After that, various amendments have been proposed that you know about, the Law on Payments proposed by both the Council of Ministers and individual representatives. At the House of Peoples at last session, a conclusion was adopted – that the Council of Ministers is in charge of making a comprehensive law. The 27 ministers' council, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, is in charge of the Council of Ministers and the deadline for the end of the year is the end of the year according to what he has concluded, this one is called the House of Peoples. We consider the House of Peoples a completely rational request to amend the law. Thank you for the reference, because in particular the media is very often spinpin' and working and accusing especially the Ministry of Finance that opposes "white bread" and I don't know what not. All that has been adopted here in Parliament is in application, and I have expressed the fact that it has been going on. And I don't understand why this law comes back to committee after a year, it's being discussed as being sent yesterday, and it's being addressed, I said, exactly one year ago from the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15267	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Špirić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15268	Well, here, I thank the minister, so I'm familiar with chronology, so I've asked the question for the best of intentions. In fact, each individual, given that it is a system law, each individual procedure on the law, related to the military, to the police, to individual categories, will lead to budget destruction, and the Council of Ministers will also face us from Parliament. So, if the Council of Ministers concludes by the end of the year to do this innovative text of the law, then all other initiatives should be suspended, as they will come into disabling certain items in the budget. It doesn't make sense to do restructuring all the time, even in the part where you shouldn't. Today we're going to have a set of these laws relating to salaries and contributions in different institutions, it's a direct destruction of the budget. I would ask Parliament to reach a conclusion if it is until 31.12. that we know that it is time until 31.12. to discuss, and to deprive ourselves of the ambition to individually solve the police, the military and I don't know which other categories, or Parliament, or the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, or today we have the Attorney General's Office, etc. So, for the best of intentions, however Parliament concludes, it doesn't matter to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15269	Thank you. We ended up asking oral questions. I thank the Council of Ministers for the answers he has given, and I thank the MPs who have asked questions. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the changes in the agenda, I'd like to introduce you to the next one. The agenda was removed from point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Receipts in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-93/16, since 17.02/2016 (first reading), in line with the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1-2610/16, from 10.10.2016 (first reading), in line with the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. 28 Point 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the field of environmental protection and sustainable development, No: 01,02-05-2268/16, since 13.10.2016, in accordance with the notice of the Foreign Affairs Commission. The following shall be added to the agenda: point 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 01.11.2016. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. There are no reports, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15270	Mr. Chairman. ... that point 3, so the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for reviewing the draft law amending the laws on medicines and medical means by emergency procedure is removed from the agenda. In fact, this Law is partly in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules. This law is a direct transfer of jurisdiction, therefore, from entities to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the necessary consultations have not been carried out. This Law is the least of a question to be discussed when it comes to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in relation to the overall problem. To remind only the MPs of this Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices was adopted more than seven years ago, so in June 2008, and it was logical that the Council of Ministers, in accordance with its responsibilities, or the competent ministry, launched an initiative to analyse the implementation of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and not that, now, in full part, out of some of the completely unknown interests, suggested an amendment, and also of known interests, proposed an amendment to the Law in terms of the appointment of members of the Professional Council. I remind you that all commissions in this Law are equally regulated, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina a much greater concern must be caused by registration, hence granting a permit for consent for registration of chivax, or so on. Cuban vaccines, which are only registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina from all European countries, are neither registered in Russia. So that's a much bigger problem. Much greater is the problem of the procedure in the way the Director of the Medicines Agency has been elected where the appointed director has not had a day of management in that sense, and it has been appointed, and that is your problem, and the way in which this Law is implemented should stand, therefore, on the Director of the Agency. In that sense, I believe this law should be withdrawn from the agenda. At the same time, complete healthcare, including the pharmaceutical sector, is financed, so the entity's competence is direct and is financed from direct taxes or contributions. The way the Expert Council is decided, as proposed, can completely exclude the Federation of BiH Health Ministry, that any decision without their, without the stance of the Republika Srpska Ministry of Health is made. At the same time, the Council of Ministers may therefore accept or not accept candidates for membership in the Expert Council and ask the competent ministry to appoint competent persons. It's one of the questions, and in that sense I find this approach worrying. I understand the generator of this proposal but this generator of the proposal has no MPs in either the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I cannot understand whether it is possible that the SDS ministers supported the Council of Ministers of such a proposal. So, what does that mean now? We will give jurisdiction to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we will create the assumption that entities 29 bear the full share of responsibility and that nothing about it as regulators needs... There is a need for the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to be seriously discussed in terms of its changes and the creation of an entirely independent, independent, therefore, institution. But I have to tell you, this is mastering a series of other things. who are against the interest of any citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is against Republika Srpska's interest. [[Employee is warned on time]] The Republika Srpska government, I am convinced, will not access the way members of the Professional Council are appointed, i.e. proposing to the Council of Ministers. And in that sense, I think it would be perfectly reasonable to withdraw, to carry out the debate and to come up with, therefore, a proposal to amend the law that would be in the interest of these, of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not in the interest of different lobbyist groups.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15271	Please note that this is a mandatory item of the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. So there won't be a vote on her. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15272	I thank the chairman. I thought I'd say exactly what you said. And I really must respond to the claim of a respected colleague, Prodanović, that it is a matter of transfer of jurisdiction. If the transfer of competencies occurred in 2008 with the consent of the then-Government of the Republika Srpska government headed by then Prime Minister Milorad Dodik when this Law was passed and when the authority belonging to entities was transferred to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is now only about amending and supplementing the Law, which aims to unblock the work of the Council. I will remind you that the existing Council has been in the technical mandate since 2012, which you know better than I do, since you have been a member of the Council since 2008, which means eight years old. I know that it is not easy for you that you may no longer be there because there are substantial receipts in this Council and that this Council will no longer be a place for members of the SNSD family. So then we had a run-in between the Council and the former Council of Ministers where a complete blockade was made. You know, you have an uncle on one side, on the other side of the niece, so one is blocking the Council, the other is blocking the Council of Ministers, the former Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15273	Thank you. Eh, now we've got a rectification of the wrong quote. First Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15274	Just in connection... I wouldn't go into this entity debate, uh, between the two clubs, but the correction of the wrong assumption that there are in the Council, or any council, board, commission, etc., substantial receipts. On the SBB proposal, this one, all the receipts in such bodies are limited to a maximum of 475 marks per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15275	Thank you. 30 Okay, I think this is, please stick to the agenda, this obviously wasn't on the agenda. Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15276	Thank you, dear colleague Arnaut. Aleksandra, I think you're an honest and honest person and it's below level what you're saying. All the money I've received in any way on that basis, I'm ready to give it to you. So don't say anything that's indefensible. You're publicly saying you're fighting any criminals or hostapplers, and now you're changing thesis. I don't care at all about any membership in any institution that... part. I've gained my affirmation and affirmation out of any profit within political action. Well, there's one thing I have to say here, it has nothing to do with the membership of Lazar Prodanović, I don't care at all. If I told you who would have me, who was trying to do everything and didn't. Let someone point out to you that in public action I have carried out any private interest in any way. Here I have seen very suspicious people from all sides, having nothing to do with political action, having nothing but the sole purpose of robbing the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, robbing these citizens, if you're telling me now... including this mechanism. I'm not talking about it, I don't care about it at all, and don't, I never would if I said something like that, then I'd insult you. You don't have any..., say Lazar Prodanović does it for the interest of one and one. I don't. So I'm talking about something that's quite clear. And when you talk about the law, well, yeah, we created the Agency it's known in what way and how, we created mechanisms and methods of decision-making, whatever, what kind of decision-making here, so direct transmission. Do you want to just have everything here? I don't think so. I hope you want to go to Republika Srpska. Do you want to go through creating a shell from Republika Srpska in terms of...? [[Employee is warned on time]] Okay. I have to tell you right now - I'm not standing... anyone. Tell me one name in any way. That's what one of the ministers said the other day that I don't know what I'm saying. I know what I'm saying. But I know very well what he's saying. [[Employee is warned on time]] I'll tell you about this director the same thing you're talking about. When from that agency...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15277	Mr. Prodanović, it's not this, it's not a debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15278	All the lawyers and you pay 6,000 marks of the contract to make certain rules and bring it from a completely different agency then whether it is the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in whose interest it works.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15279	Thank you. Please leave these discussions that might concern the debate on the point for discussion on the agenda. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15280	Ma, I am now certain that Honorable colleague Prodanović has not read this proposal at all, especially when they mention the creation of a Republika Srpska shell. The proposal thus cites 31 voting in the Council that there is no decision that can not be made without Republika Srpska's government, a respected counterpart. So the very way of voting is such that the voice and entity, the representative of entity governments, is necessary. The second thing, from 2008 to today, I'm sorry, but you started the topic yourself, you say that the fees are not the reason, from 2008 to today through membership in the Council to receive more than 70,000 marks, I think that's a huge amount for all of us here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15281	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15282	Not wanting to get into mutual polemics, as my colleague from, on my right, Damir said, but it's necessary to take a step forward to provide citizens with what really belongs to them and that's that they're not robbed. Probably people know, and I'm going to give an example of just one of Bayer's little medications...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15283	Mr. Backović, you see this is a debate under the agenda, which is a mandatory item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15284	...to prices, but well,... it will be very interesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15285	Correction of the wrong, Mirsad Đonlagić, does not adhere to the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd like to ask my colleagues, this is obviously, as you mentioned, about the mandatory agenda point and I don't know what this debate is about right now. Of course, I'm not saying that there's an unfounded debate, but all this is now being discussed can be used when the agenda comes. And I would ask my colleagues to focus on accepting or refusing the agenda, as you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15287	Thank you. Is there a willingness to end this because it's a mandatory agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15288	32 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15289	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15290	It is not true that no decision can be made, you can make it, read the Law, and please if you are looking at something wrong do not impute it to another. I made it quite clear that with two votes he is members of the BiH Federation and one from the Brcko District and one appointed by the Council of Ministers that he is from another entity of...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15291	Well, you see, it's for discussion, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15292	So it's an absolutely decided decision. Secondly, it's not true about the amount you're talking about, I'll bring you confirmation that you see, but I need to tell you my motive for any political engagement, including this, that I knew, but I'm glad I was here, I found out a lot, I found out, please don't be offended, you're worse than us ten times, we're nothing as part of the government... That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15293	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, please just about this, around the current agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15294	Mr. Chairman, correcting the wrong allegations, look at the Rules of Procedure. So when one MP says something the other MP finds guilty, then the other MP has the right to correct it for two minutes. The point of that provision is that MPs don't speak in their minds and only speak in good faith, because then, if they speak by heart, if they talk...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15295	You've already spent it, then cross over, please move to correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15296	Well, you challenged my right to answer, so I say read the Rules of Procedure first.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15297	Well, I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15298	So the correction of the wrong allegation, specifically Mrs Pandurević says from 2008 to today that 70,000 marks have been spent. This is necessary... because since the end of 2015, thanks to the SBB, the maximum fee in that Council and in each other is 475 marks. These are facts, because Mr. Bevanda is talking about some tricks, etc., you're talking about this as a fact that you're still wasting 33. It is not spent thanks to our proposal, and this shows the justification of individual legislative proposals, because if we had waited for the Council of Ministers to deliver these amendments and additions, they would not have proposed it first, and even if they had proposed they would have waited another year. Then there'd be 70,000 marks to date.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15299	Thank you. You were just talking about things that had nothing to do with this agenda point, but here, I let you talk. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15300	About point 11, so she's not as controversial as the dot, but she's not well-formed. Therefore, it should stand – Impact review report on the subject Monitoring the recommendations of impact review, and then the applicant of the Office for consideration... So this point is not well defined, is that clear? So please make it change.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15301	Thank you. Well, I think everyone's taking this as an argument, and we're gonna change that. Mr. Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15302	So, Mr. Chairman, I don't think you're giving up, Mr. 76, position (2), a member of the Rules of Procedure says that an MP may request a word to correct, in his opinion, a false statement which may be the cause of the misunderstanding or which requires an explanation. So, it's not my place to talk about the agenda, I'm also saying I'm not going to talk about the agenda, the agenda point, I'm going to talk about the wrong quote from your party colleague. And that's my right, and don't constantly point to something I have a right to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15303	Thank you. Now I'd go in with you in the controversy, I'll avoid it, I'll conclude the debate. So we don't have a proposal except for this mandatory agenda item that doesn't allow for a vote on itself. So we stay on the agenda that you get. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 36th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 01.11.2016; 34 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-1950/16 of 18.07.2016 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2091/16, from 02/08/2016 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2194/16, of 05.08.2016 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Administration Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2275/16, of 26/08 (second reading); 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on international and inter-entity road transport – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02- 02-1-2509/16, since 28/09/2016 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Compensations in the Court and Prosecutorial Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2617/16, since 11.10.2016 (first reading), a shortened procedure; 10. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – applicant: BiH High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, issue: 01,02-08-2601/16, of 07.10.2016; 11. Report – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations – applicant: BiH institutions audit office, material number: 01,01/4-16-1-2008/16, since 25.07.2016; 12. Information on foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 and Report on activities of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-24/16, since 16/09/2016. (Realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 24th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 03.02.) 2016); 13. Material of the BiH European Integration Directorate: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Report on the implementation of the measures set out in the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the 2015 Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina, DIO A – Obligations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, (c) Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, DIO B – Obligations of the entity institution, Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and Canton, (d) Progress report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda for the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina Council, issue: 01-50-1853-1/15, of 21/09/2016. (realisation of parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 28.10.2015); 14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 30.06.2016, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-2639/16, of 14.10.2016; 15. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Complementary Law before the 35th Court of BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-609/16, of 18.03.2016); 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the Rural Competitiveness Development Programme (RCDP) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Agricultural Development Fund, No: 01,02-05-2-2243/16, since 18/08; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement on Finance (Programme of Real Estate) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, No: 01,02-05-2462/16, since 21/09/2016; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the state programme of activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 between the European Union represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-05-2-2640/16, of 14.10.2016; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Funding Agreement (Emergency Recovery Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, No: 01,02-05-2-2641/16, from 14.10.2016; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for IPA II Cross-border Co-operation Programme Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina 2014 – 2020, issue: 01,02-05-2-2642/16, of 14.10.2016; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border co-operation programme – Serbia for 2015, between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No: 01,02-05-2-263/16, of 14.10.2016; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement for the "Infrastructure Development in Gorazd" project between the Saudi Development Fund and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-22658/16, of 17.10.2016; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the mutual suspension of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports, No 01,02-05-2-2-2683/16, of 19.10.2016; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, issue: 01,02-05-2-2732/16, of 26.10.2016. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 36th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I have comments, on the page of the second where the record says what I said when it comes to certain answers, so I would ask that the word “expressed dissatisfaction ” be deleted. So, I'm just saying, if you're gonna do it like that, I've got a minister running out on me. So to erase it, I 36 did not express dissatisfaction because it was obvious that the minister could not be there because of his commitments. I'm asking you to delete it. And on page 10, just a little bit to find, I apologize, so when I talked about the answers and suggested a certain conclusion to amend the Rules of Procedure, so you instructed me not to do so but to turn myself in to this working group, the commission, which will work on it, I would only ask that here, behind the word "also suggested adoption of the conclusions" to indicate there those three, four conclusions in the record that I have proposed, which will be addressed to that committee. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15306	Thank you. Here, we accept the remarks. Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15307	I haven't responded until today, and now I'm responding. Since the records are working on a stenogram, I'm curious about how the record works if half of someone's discussion writes "off microphone", and then the discussion continues and again "off microphone", and the discussion continues again. And I noticed that a few of us MPs here often have a microphone off. I've taken and pushed all the stenograms of all the sessions this symmetry has held and it's about this big to you, from the beginning... to here... paper. With the largest number "off microphone" is Zaim Backović and Mr Bojić. That you know Bojić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't know what I'm interrupting. I want to be answered how it is possible that someone has never turned off the microphone, that other MPs are neatly, regularly, in each session, the microphone is turned off and then the minutes are done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15309	So the bell I'm sending as a warning to timeout unless it's respected for the end of the discussion, it's possible to turn off the microphone. Why some MPs are turned off the microphone, and very rarely, I don't know if it was one or two times, maybe the microphone has been turned off for some other technical reason, but the chairman has the ability to turn off the microphone unless the MP accepts that the time has passed and to complete his discussion. So, I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, it only happens when time really goes by. It is true that in some cases, I am now speaking for myself because I am the chairman, and we are rotating, in December Mr. Džaferović will take over the presidency again, I am taking on the discretionary right that if I do not think that this discussion should be interrupted because of some important information to allow 10, 20 seconds or minutes to extend this discussion. There, that's the point of things. So, it's nothing personal, we can run an analysis of what you said and see Mr. Backović if there really is anything else besides what I said. Here's the Home Secretary at your disposal to do it together. 37 Mr. Backović, here's a correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15310	Every time you break up, you say, and you stand behind the switch-off microphone your comment, but not just yours, but any of the chairmans of this House. I'm not talking about these cases, I'm talking about cases of orderly discussion that's, say, torn into three parts. Three sentences and an empty sentence and an empty sentence, and you have no essence of what the intercessor said here. I'm talking about it. And I told you nothing I printed, after this last session all the stenograms printed them myself and took a little to do that, because I noticed that it appeared to me. And then I'm looking, it's not just me, I'm not just talking about myself, there's more MPs, but it's interesting that someone never and Mr. Bojić and me most, most of all. That's very interesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15311	Okay, well, look, please, here's the deal with the Secretary of the House that along with you determines what's going on and corrects any irregularities. Do we have any further discussions? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in written form were asked by the following MPs: Denis Bećirović addressed the initiative to the College of the House; Senad Šepić asked the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Central Election Commission and directed the initiative to the Government of the Federation of BiH; Damir Arnaut asked the question of the BiH Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs; Saša Magazinović asked the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Agency for Labour and Employment and the Council of Ministers of BiH; Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalica asked the Ministry of Health of the Federation of BiH to ask questions in preparation of the 35th session of the House; Dušanka Majkić asked the Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; Aleksandra Pandurević asked the BHRT and Nikola Lovrinović's management of BiH. The following answers were provided to today's session: Asked by Aleksandra Pandurević, posted in writing by the BiH Senad Minister's Council; Answered by the question of Damir Dušanka-Vražalica, Đonlagić was asked in written form in preparation for the 36th session, submitted by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the communication on the parliamentary initiative provided by the Council of Ministers of BiH, by the emergency for the delivery of the response, to the question asked at the 35th session, by the Federal Ministry of Health; on the issues Šefik Nikola Lovrinović, who was asked by the Council of Ministers at the 36th session, the answer was submitted by the Institution for Consumer Protection in BiH and the Council of Ministers of BiH, to the question asked by the Minister for BiH. We have several MPs to comment on. First is Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15313	I thank the Honorable Chairman. So the answer to the question I received from the Federation of BiH Health Ministry should be noted that I referred the question to me on September 1st, that I only received it yesterday, so they violated all the provisions of Article 170 to give me an answer within 30 days. And it's only by my urgency that neither the secretary of this House nor anyone, but I personally sent an emergency to get an answer from this ministry. The answer came only yesterday in the afternoon so that I will retain the right to have this answer delivered, which is very exhausted, and which is not, again, in accordance with my questions asked, writtenly that, in accordance with Article 171, I will refer again as an additional parliamentary question. As for the foreign ministry's response, where I asked a question about giving me an answer according to the DKP database available by the BiH Foreign Ministry, to give me information on how many of our diplomats in the DKP speak the country's language of admission, and in English and French. On such an important issue, and citing information that Bosnia and Herzegovina has 56 diplomatic consular offices in which it works for a total of 184 appointed persons and civil servants, they gave me the answer that 119 diplomats Bosnia and Herzegovina speak in the country's languages, 171 diplomats speak English, while French speaks a total of 57 diplomats. What am I saying? In one sentence, giving such an answer is quite inappropriate for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And why is that? Here, we heard from the asked question of a respected fellow Isaković, as well as the answer of the distinguished chairman Zvizdić, how important it is to adopt a Law on Foreign Policy that would regulate these issues, which would in fact bring about the possibility of a kind of corruption by the BiH presidency where people are named in a way that they are politically and partylike, rather than having certain diplomas that would confirm their knowledge. So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in Article 171, I will again address the additional issue and ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide me with information in accordance with diplomatic files and their associated diplomats. So, this way, without providing a table view of what diplomats are, what they said in their biography, whether they have certain diplomas that confirm it, is quite inappropriate. What interests me is that I am in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, directed an initiative concerning each individual ministry, within the BiH Council of Ministers, as part of its work report to provide information on the state of gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That a respected chairman, or whole of the BiH Council of Ministers, has responded to me in one sentence that it will do so in the future in a way that will give me information on how many women are employed in individual ministries and in what positions. So, I ask the Honorable gentlemen of the Council of Ministers to first consider what gender equality means and if I did not, I asked, but in addition to each ministry within the Council of Ministers to give politics, i.e. policies of pepper, what they are doing within their ministry to improve the position of less represented sex, or whether they are engaged in gender equality, because the guff made by the Gender Equality Agency states that we have in all and one ministry an employee who is obliged to provide this information transparently to the public. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15314	Thank you. Next comment, Ambassador jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15315	I thank the chairman. I received a reply from the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for indirect taxation on the issue raised in written form – what activities were conducted this year, what was done, and at which stage the procedure for opening the border crossing of Tržačka Rastela – kordunski Ljeskovac. I am taking the opportunity to express my dissatisfaction with the answer provided for the following reason: the Directorate for indirect taxation said in response, and the Council of Ministers only reiterated, several actions taken by the Administration in this procedure. I have checked the contents of the Management’s reply and found that most of those actions and actions do not comply with the existing state of the opening process of that border crossing. It is a completely wrong assumption from the administration that it has provided basic conditions for the start of the operation of this border crossing. I visited the border crossing in question and made sure that only land works and excavations were under way, and that the conditions were yet to be provided for the start of the work of this border crossing, i.e. urban and construction documentation was yet to be obtained. Since I am not satisfied with the answer without commenting on everything, I will ask a further question, and I will submit to the Management for the understanding of the Municipality of Cazin, which I have requested to check the state of the process of obtaining urban and construction documents. I would ask the Administration and the Council of Ministers to approach the conclusions in question more responsibly and more seriously, this conclusion was adopted by the House of Representatives, and I would ask the Administration to answer more credible and more fully the questions raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15316	Thank you. Next comment, MP Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I got an answer to three questions that I asked, so I'm going to try to comment briefly. So, the answer I received from the Ombudsman's Institute for Consumer Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina, my question was, therefore, can the tv tax, about to convince him, to charge in the same account with the telephone bill, I got an answer and I just want to read it here with a tightness because we've passed laws and regulations long ago, recently when it comes to this issue – the technology of charging monthly fees through the telecom operator's account is contrary to consumer rights and their interests. And they recommend that the payment of tv charges be charged separately from economic services of general interest. So it's the Ombudsman's position, and we've been doing the opposite all the time. I'm happy with the answer. I don't need any further. I further asked the question, therefore, how is the issue of the transportation of employees, all of them, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina here working in Sarajevo, with a special 40-story view of the provision to pay it up to 80km. I got the answer I'm happy with because it was passed as it was brought, however, the answer says it's doing a new rule. And I would like this discriminatory provision about the 80km to be replaced in some other way, and not, therefore, by thinking in the rule that whoever is over 80 km will no longer be able to work, so it is not further recognised. So then you can say what's not 81, which isn't 87 kilometers, 90. You have a situation to say the people of Central Bosnia and Herzegovina have that right, and from New Travnik they have no right, the difference is two kilometers, or maybe half a mile. So it's not right to ask it this way, but since it's a new rule, as far as I'm aware here in this answer, I hope that this issue is settled in some other way. And the last answer I received from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees was on the trail of my inquiry about the status of Mrs. Nevenka Filipović, or her apartment that was destroyed during this war. She didn't get anything as a solution and as a fugitive from her apartment. I thank the Ministry that is engaged in this matter and as far as I've seen here they will continue to work on it. I would really like to, and I will, behold, let the Ministry try to do something by the end of the year, because indeed, for years, this woman, if not two decades, has been seeking, is very irresponsible behavior of the Novo Sarajevo Municipality and towards them as far as I have seen, because I am in the course of all, all the correspondence they are leading. So I'm sorry that this lady was brought into this situation, but I hope that the Ministry of Appeals, and already everything she's launched, will get an answer and will be able to answer me, and first of all, to address that question by that lady. Well, that's why I won't touch them again until the end of the year. I hope I can finish it, if I don't probably have to go there and sue or I don't know what else, but it's inappropriate for that person to treat him like this here in the Novo Sarajevo municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15318	Thank you. Next comment, Ambassador Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15319	Thank you. I received a reply from the Council of Ministers, specifically from the Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Representatives before the European Court of Human Rights, and a situation I have warned of has been repeated. This is the second time I've asked for an answer from this agent's office. The first time they wrote that they didn't want to deliver the information. Then the second time I called on the Administration Act. Now, this time they wrote that they had delivered something to me earlier when I was involved in the Sejdić-Finc case, and since the materials requested had already been delivered to Mr Arnaut we believe there is no need to re-deliver them. I remind you of Rule 171 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, which says that when the chairman of the House receives a reply, he delivers a copy to all MPs, because you see the purpose, one of the purposes of the parliamentary questions is that we are all being educated here. I specifically read most of the answers my colleagues get. Now, what comes out of this response from the Human Rights Agents' Office? That I now need what I got from them eight years ago, when I was involved in Sejdić-Finc's case, I now need to copy it so I can share it with you all here. But beware, this is about a truly unacceptable, unacceptable relationship that civil servants take the right to deal with politics, that they assess what they need to deliver to the MP and what they don't need 41 to deliver, and why, and when, etc. So, I am really asking, I insist that the Home Office informs the Office that this is unacceptable, that it informs them of this Article 171st position (4) of the Rules of Procedure, and that they deliver all the required materials, because I will not make copies, and that it already has procedures to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15320	Thank you. Next comment, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, before I say how pleased or unsatisfactory I am with the answer I have received, and I have asked a question about the damage caused by the floods, so it's a single elemental accident, I just want to point out to all of us a situation which, for example, is, and when it's only possible to solve the injury caused by helicopters, the situation with helicopters in Bosnia and Herzegovina is dramatic, the threat exists even in 2017, and we're left without those helicopters, and even in the latest Law of Payments, I see an example of one that leads to the degradation of those people who manage those helicopters. But, therefore, it will be one of my questions that I will ask the Ministry of Defence for the next session of Parliament. And what I'm saying is that, as far as the questions I've asked about the floods are concerned, I'm very pleased, there's a thorough answer, although information means it can also hear that there are certain dissatisfactions with the way, or with the slowness of solving these problems. So, what I've got, I repeat, I'm pleased with that, but here I would still ask the competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to take care of this issue as much as possible and that what is possible earlier is that some of the following floods or slides might not have found us without helping these people solve the problems that previous floods and previous slides have done to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15322	Thank you. Commentary, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15323	I would like to ask, given that I received a late answer to this question, to retain the right to comment at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15324	Okay, thank you. Next, MP Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15325	Thank you very much. 42 I actually didn’t get the answer, so I’ll take the chance just to complain that I didn’t. It is about the question I asked at the last session and since none of those invited or called to answer, the Honorable Minister Šarović apologized for getting the question late, it is, of course, very competent, as he does otherwise, given some answers, but in the meantime, a local ecological problem has exceeded those borders and has grown into a state problem. We were able to find out in the media that the import of garbage into Neum doesn't know anything about the Direct Taxation Authority, the Border Police are being built, we have the Commission for Integrated Management, etc. I wish I had, I was promised to get that kind of answer in writing. That's all I wanted, thank you very much for letting me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15326	All right, we'll send an emergency to the department, the Council of Ministers. Next to comment, MP Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15327	Very briefly, the comment is on the initiative to pass this Law on the prevention of hate speech. We had one joint initiative here, together with several parliamentary colleagues, I submitted this when we had those current topics of attack on journalists, and now that I am not coming back, not to waste time on it, and then we were told that in the Council of Ministers' Work Programme it was put in place, that it would be adopted at the latest, or prepared and sent to parliamentary procedure of the Law by half a year. Now in this, uh, in this answer we have information that something is being done there, but there are no deadlines, half a year has passed and there is no one inside, no answer that can roughly tell us what procedure it is, when we here in the Parliamentary Assembly will be able to have this Law. So my urgency is again called to adhere to those initiatives that we had and the agreements that we had, because we wanted to pass the law ourselves here, but we were told to wait with it because, on that basis, the Council of Ministers, so that what was promised by both the Council of Ministers and the institutions to finally, so that we have that kind of urgency to answer that. If they don't have it ready for us here in the Parliamentary Assembly to work on our part.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15328	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15329	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I received an answer to a question concerning the participation of Republika Srpska police in a joint police exercise with members of the police of the Republic of Serbia on 28th of this year in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the Shepak border crossing zone. I would ask the Council of Ministers when they provide answers to these questions in future to deal with the analysis in detail. I received an answer in which, in some ways, he is trying to justify the involvement of Republika Srpska's police entity in the military exercise with the police of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think things are as they are written in response, and I ask the Council of Ministers to check this matter in detail. I asked two questions, the first question was – are the border procedures respected regarding the Border Control Act? And they were said to be. I, too, have no objections regarding that 43 part of the answer, said that they had examined every officer, weapon, material-technical means that came out according to the law. But we have a Law that speaks of the involvement of military, police and civil servants in missions outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law is not respected. I am told in response that there must be approval of the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly if it is a peace support operation and other operations including several of them, including military exercises. It's not about police, but it's about exercise, it's about military practice. And then it's said that since this wasn't a peace support operation, there was no need to respect that law. I don't think that's true, he has no right to go on an international mission by any member of these structures without the approval of the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I would ask that part of the answer be given special attention. You are referring to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on police co-operation and to the Convention on Police Co-operation in Southeast Europe, and there is no approval under these conventions, no bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I did not stand up to comment on such order, this is a dangerous practice that we need to stop in the future and therefore ask that this issue be detailed by the Council of Ministers and delivered to me on this matter of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15330	We don't have any more comments on parliamentary issues. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 01.11.2016 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 07.11.2016 which found that the proposal for a law was not fully in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and is partly in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must remind you that we will open two discussions and that the first debate concerns the debate on an emergency procedure request, and if we support an emergency procedure request in the vote, we open the debate under the law. So, please, let's focus on, at this point, discussing an emergency procedure request. Please, I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. We're voting on a request.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15332	Lazar Prodanović... 44
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15333	Here you go, so we're discussing the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15334	So, the chairman, I spoke earlier, I think even that it was the Council of Ministers' intention to instruct him should have gone to regular procedure. For what? While it is impossible to change anything in the emergency procedure, I must immediately say that this, these amendments to the Law, speak of a single vote of the Council of Ministers, entity voice, representatives of the Professional Council, for us, it is unacceptable in any sense to change it in this sense, this, entity voice, both entities and most votes in relation to the total number of votes, so of seven, four votes in favour. I don't think it's clear here, even... that assuming that such a law is going on, he would have had to imply that votes involve the voice of the Council of Ministers, at least one vote of representatives of the constituent peoples, as it has been so far, and at least one vote of the competent entity ministries. So that's not said here, so let's say the voice of the Council of Ministers' representative who from one entity could be calculated, and that's otherwise intentional, like the voice of an entity. In that sense, I believe that the emergency procedure is not justified, even assuming that this law is being considered he is absolutely unacceptable to us. And the second question that I'm going to ask later when we're talking about principles, that's what I'm going to say. So, we believe that the emergency procedure absolutely has no excuse. If we plead, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15335	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15336	I have to say that I too have the skeptics for the emergency procedure of this law for one simple reason, now I have to say and enter into one of these laws. In paragraph (8), it seems to me, I don't have it on the monitor now, it is mentioned, at least in my text, "constituting the people". I don't know what it's like in two other languages, it's a term that's being asked, you don't know, but it's not just that problem in that same item talking about the way to decide where it's mentioned that it should be voiced by every constituent people in the way of decision-making. In the way in which this Council is elected, no mention shall be made of the model in which a representative of each constituent nation will be elected in the Council. And this leaves a terrible, terrible dilemma about how members of the Council are elected so that they can apply paragraph (8) of the Law later, to vote in this way. Therefore, it is not defined how representatives of the constituent people, one, the other, the third, will be elected. It may be hard to solve that model, but it needs to be solved at the Law. So I'm saying there's this one, one skepticial procedure, because, at least, we have to solve these and, well, if not formal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15337	Thank you. Okay. Discussion, Dušanka Majkić, on the urgency of the procedure. Isolate. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15338	So it's obvious that every time it's not possible to talk about procedure, not to touch the very essence of the law. And here, now we see whoever answers can't just stay, because they have to say why it's for or against this kind of procedure. So, here's who's been talking about this subject every time he gets to the point. I think we have to do business on this or let go, as we did before, talk about the essence of the matter from which everyone will declare the procedure, and eventually just vote on it. Otherwise it's impossible, so far it hasn't been, not just on this Law, but on any one, just stick to it, stick to the procedure and say whether or not you're in or out. Why I'm for or why I'm not, so I have to explain it, and then I have to touch the essence of the law. So, I am asking you now that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are now to make a deal on this subject and to make this area much better. Now that that's the case, I need to say a few words when it comes to this. Why did this law ever happen? Why did it come all of a sudden? What was the need for one of the solutions that we had in the basic law that said that the proposal of the position (2) of this member contained that three candidates from each entity and one candidate from the Brcko District would make this Council? What's the big deal? I thought we'd never try to take what's wrong with each other again, not to choose each other's elected representatives again, not to rob each other of our solutions and suggest what doesn't stand. How can the Ministry of Civil Affairs need him to propose two members and to propose a representative of Republika Srpska to Mr Adil Osmanović? Well, give the people what it's all about, what kind of credibility can have such a request? Who can allow a representative of Republika Srpska to choose Adil Osmanović? With all due respect, Minister, but it is unacceptable for you to do so, leave it to Republika Srpska that it, its institutions, propose its members. And the further way of deciding is, so the member proposed by the Civilian Ministry is crucial, because in that case those other two members who come from Republika Srpska are irrelevant, his vote is sufficient, because he will decide on behalf of both the people and on behalf of the entities. So wait a minute, I thought we were done with that, I thought we were grown up in that. What's the need for you to do that? The third question is what is the need of Serbian ministers to vote on it? What's the need to do that? We're gonna break again, we're gonna make a fight, we're gonna fight. Why did we have to, so let Lazar Prodanović be replaced from the Council, if that is your goal, but you can't take that away, that the Ministry of Civil Affairs finds a similar from Republika Srpska to decide what the minister tells him. So don't cross all the limits, please be correct to each other, and don't do to others what you wouldn't like others to do to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15339	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15340	I thank the chairman. I mean, since you've allowed yourself to enter the content of the law, I really must respond to the incorrect allegations of distinguished counterpart Majkić, that Mr. Adil Osmanović should propose a representative of Republika Srpska. Anyone who has read the Law knows that is not so, because members of the Expert Council, two who propose the Council of Ministers and who come from two entities, have the Council of Ministers, not Mr Osmanović, but the Council of Ministers. The list is proposed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but again on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. So, here 46 seems not, Mr. Osmanović may be just a victim, here is disputed Mirko Šarović and Dragan Mektić, and here it is controversial that someone does not want the SDS and the Alliance for Change to have a member at the Council to finally stand at the end of the pharmaceutical mafia. And these discussions here today unfortunately say that the pharmaceutical mafia in Bosnia and Herzegovina also has its own political bullets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15341	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15342	Thank you very much. I needed only to respond to Mrs. Majkić's discussion with the trace of her appeal to be correct and her shown folk wisdom - do not do to anyone else what others would not want to do to you. I want to say only, even if it is the minister of civil affairs who appoints two members, not the Council of Ministers, then it is certainly not Adil Osmanović. I think it is incorrect to speak here – who is Adil Osmanović to appoint it, he is the minister of civil affairs, today he, tomorrow someone else, and I don't think it's right to discuss it like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15343	Thank you. Correction of the false quote Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15344	Dear colleague Pandurević. So, right now, I have to say, and so far, the Council of Ministers has appointed members of the Expert Council on the proposal of the competent ministries. And let me just say one more time, so I have no dilemma that the Republika Srpska Health Ministry has appointed three members of the Professional Council that do not belong to most in Republika Srpska at all, but that it uses its legal authority. And I'm telling you one more thing that you certainly, some of you certainly know, in..., and that Minister Bogdanić, so I know his thinking previously which was, is not, that I also think it's natural that the Alliance for Change or the SDS has a member in the Expert Council, I don't think I have any dilemma here, but I guess we'll agree in one, that a member of the Professional Council should not be by interest of a member of the PDP, of the NDP, of the SDS or of the SNSD, please, or I'm speaking now, by chance about Republika Srpska, so there must be a person and a person who will have certain competences. One more thing, so in previous talks with the health minister, I know reliably that the wife of a high-ranking opposition official in Republika Srpska was planned for a member of the Professional Council. I didn't mind at all, and I also have to tell you right now, I don't care about the Expert Council at all, but I have no right to remain silent about something that isn't fair, I have no right to say nothing if it's a transfer of jurisdiction, I've been elected from my election unit from Republika Srpska, I have responsibility in that sense. And I will personally say, as a man, that I have no dilemma that certainly appointing implies responsibility and responsibility. So let's get this straight, dear colleague Majkić, what she said, it doesn't occur to me, I don't care, so do you think it's my job to..., I have a thousand jobs that I can do, but I don't have the right to do unfairly public work and I have the full responsibility that, therefore, to answer, to work in the interests of citizens, because I'm a publicly elected person, not in the interest of any lobby. 47 Tell me your name, when you talk about it, tell me your name. And I can't wait for the day for the judiciary to sanction those who abuse any kind of public service for private purposes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15345	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15346	So, I said it nicely, and I don't want to replicate it individually, because it literally writes here a proposal from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs from the position (2) of this member will contain two candidates from the Council of Ministers coming from different entities. And that wouldn't be a problem, but there's a follow-up at point 10 that says that votes will have to be represented when deciding on one representative from the Council of Ministers and both entities. So as soon as whoever comes to the proposal of the Civil Affairs Ministry, the two other representatives of Republika Srpska who are in the council will be irrelevant. So, please, we at SNSD don't have the opportunity to take this down, but we have the opportunity to inform the public, and that's what we're going to do. Please, don't unnecessarily complicate the situation, make things like this not happen, unnecessarily complicate complicated relationships and find ways to withdraw this proposal from the Council of Ministers before it turns into another bust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15347	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15348	Dear colleagues. Well, very briefly. So here obviously that the question of SNSD's position has been compromised, it's actually the essence of everything that I can see from these discussions that have been heard here. And finally, when you insist, Mr. Prodanović, say the name, etc., and you say the wife of one of the high-ranking leaders of the opposition, so if you insist on telling who it is and who it is, whose wife it is, here I would like to hear who of the opposition colleagues has a wife who has ambitions that you were talking about. So it is clear here that if a representative from Republika Srpska from the SNSD is not a problem for you, and if a representative from Republika Srpska is someone from the Alliance for Change, that is a problem for you, that is the whole point. And all that my colleague said, of course, is that it is something which is as a fact absolutely clear and unequivocal that in no sense will be damaged by Republika Srpska, because the representative elected by the Council of Ministers in which representatives from Republika Srpska are sitting in the Council of Ministers will surely represent the interests of the Republika Srpska quality and qualified. I'm totally convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15349	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15350	I didn't tell the leader of the opposition at all, I told the opposition member and, well, let me, but you heard that I have absolutely no dilemma, we need competent personalities. I must immediately say, as far as I'm concerned, none of them must be a member of the parliamentary majority expert council from Republika Srpska, so everyone should be part of it, so you need to talk. We may not like each other, but we have to come up with a common solution and here we come, right now I have to tell you, I'm not protecting anyone, tell me, I haven't talked to anyone else, I just said that I think that part of the responsibility should definitely be taken over in every sense and I don't have any dilemma about it. I believe this is a significant transfer of jurisdiction and violation, therefore, of the entity's exclusive jurisdiction. As I appreciate it, as Honorable colleague Kožul said, however, normally, if we speak such a voting model whether he is good I do not know, but he is in accordance with the Constitution, but must ensure competent representation of the representatives in the way it is said. I have said before, which is why I believe it is possible to adopt this law by an emergency procedure even if it has a qualified majority without being defined as having to have the protection of a competent ministry that participates in the financing of health, including in this case the pharmaceutical sector. Well, it's impossible to do that to you, so the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Montenegro all have these agencies. The decisions of vital interest in the budget are made by the competent health ministries, I will make copies and give them to you, as at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if you suggest establishing a health ministry at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I must say immediately I am a legalist, I have nothing against it, but I will not vote for it. Vote to make that decision and it's okay, it's this model just [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15351	Thank you. Non-compliance with the agenda, Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15352	Dear Chairman, we have the same situation as when we adopt the agenda, we vote, we plead and we have a debate if we want an emergency procedure. Now we're listening to whose wife's gonna sign up and everything. Well, that's it, that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15353	I completely agree with you. What I could have appealed to myself, trying to avoid taking away words from the MPs, I think this discussion, this way of emergency procedure is abuse of the right to discussion on this agenda point. Mr. Nikola Špirić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15354	Oh, gentlemen of the chairman, I'm sorry we're in a situation like this. I think that we could spare our colleagues the inter-Serbian nonsense, I guess it's clear to everyone that they're going to change the law because the new parliamentary majority is to get rid of things. I don't think there's any need to pass it on to the authorities. In the last two years, therefore, there are always times in Parliament, as long as we in this House are going to Srbin each other down, whether someone will fall on the crown from their heads to demand a break and try to implement 49 parliamentary majority under the same law and if that does not work, then they would realize that people are fighting in another way and they are burdening other colleagues. That's why I'm asking you, so not to go through the emergency procedure today, too much evil energy has been spilled on irrelevant things. And it's true that deciding to transfer jurisdiction, I'm not going to go in on behalf of hurting anyone. But I think as part of an existing legal solution, gentlemen, let the club chiefs sit down, let them try for 10 days to implement the solutions that satisfy... through the existing law, not to be a month of indictee who does not transfer jurisdiction. That's my brotherly advice and that's why I wanted to say, let's take a break, for the first time in two years for two of the Republika Srpska clubs to sit together, that's the interest of both Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why are we running, why are the breaks serving, why are they chasing each other? If this law is passed by emergency procedure, you can have most of it, it's a transfer of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15355	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15356	I've been calling Bojić so far, it doesn't matter what you do, I don't suggest it, I don't think it's right, I don't think we can hide our stupidity from each other, and human beings would be human. There will be nothing if there are three from Republika Srpska at the ministry to have two from the Alliance for Change. Have you tried? You're not. Why do we force and change laws that will be interpreted as a transfer of jurisdiction? I apologize to the other colleagues, so I suggest that today this point, not to plead, let's try, let's try people to talk. So if you're not going to talk, but you haven't even tried, you're going to change the law that you know the interpretation will be. That's why I'm not here, I'm not inviting anyone to the line, I'm not accusing anyone, but if you think we can find a solution, let's take a break and talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15357	Thank you. So, as far as I can tell, a break was requested before voting on the urgency of the procedure. Ten minutes off. Here, we'll continue the session immediately just to get information about Deputy Krišto, she makes a statement, so we decided to wait. Please proceed with your work. Now we're going to vote on an emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. For 13, versus 17, abstention 7. There is no general majority, so an emergency procedure has been denied. We're going to vote on the short procedure. For 16, versus 15, abstention six. There's no entity majority. Are we going to vote right now in the second round? 50
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15359	What's our status? 16, 15, no entities Republika Srpska, right? Let's go to the second circle right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15360	We're voting in the second round on a request for a shortened procedure. For 17, against 15, abstention 5. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. So the law is sent to regular procedure. We're going to the next item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-1950/16 of 18.07.2016 (second reading) The draft law was adopted in a proper reading at the 35th session of the House, held on 30.08.2016. The Commission has delivered the Fa-finance and the budget on 21.10.2016. The bill's proposal report. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Damir Arnaut has applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15362	I thank the chairman. Just to point out, in accordance with the obligation set out in Article 75(2), I am in fact explaining the draft law, and I reserve the right to participate in the debate if there is any need to comply with the previous position of that member. Therefore, this proposal for a law has passed a commission phase in the Constitutional Commission and two commission stages in the financial and budgetary committee responsible. The Commission for Finance and Budget also proposed amendments which were significantly rejected in the Kossija and supported by the first principles of the draft law at the first commission stage, and then the proposal for a law at the second commission stage. So, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15363	May I have your attention while the MP is exhibiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15364	I thank the chairman. So, according to that, according to the voting results as we have seen so far, this bill should still receive the required majority today, both general and entityal, and thus be adopted at the House of Representatives. To underline, therefore, given that I am currently acting as a proposing I will stick to the details of the law itself. According to the current legal solution in the Law on Salaries and 51 fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, each employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not only apply to elected and appointed officials, so it does not only apply to MPs, ministers, etc., but to all employees of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so every employee in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the right to pay compensation when they retire to their six monthly salaries, no matter how much they are, how much they are paid. And then we have situations where someone who, for example, behaves the highest position in the paying class of members of the Bureau can get a minimum of 30,000 marks, although when you add past work and anything else that goes into the basic salary, on the net salary, and fees are over 36,000 marks in individual cases. Such enormous amounts are also in the case of MPs, in the case of ministers, but also in the case of a significant number of government officials who have salaries well above the average in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thus, not only the elected and appointed officials have these enormous fees, according to the current legal solution, but also a good number of civil servants, so all government officials have severances that really do not meet the purpose of the severance. The purpose of the severance is to make it easier for someone to go to retirement rather than reward him with some enormous compensation. This bill, therefore, returns severance to its purpose, to its purpose. The maximum amount of severance that can be paid will, under this Act, be 9,960 marks, the minimum amount will remain as on 4,980 marks so far. So the least paid workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions will not be damaged. Also, a significant number of workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions will not be damaged. Also, it was the subject of an amendment attempt, police and military personnel will not be damaged, and their severances will remain at the same level as they are now. So, only leading civil servants, starting from the head of the department and upwards, including, of course, elected and appointed officials, will be brought to one extent, reasonable. And that's the whole point of this bill proposal and the whole point of the bill that I and the SBB have proposed, to introduce some measures, because, really, this has gone beyond all measures, because when someone takes an severance of more than 25 or 30 thousand marks, it causes a legitimate revolt to the public. However, I've pointed out before, and I'm going to point that out again, I think it should be fair and admit to the fact that the legal, current legal framework does not allow anyone to refuse severance. It's not like working on a commission or spending on a cell phone, where you can inform the competent service that you don't want a commission fee, that you don't want a cell phone fee that belongs to you as the chairman, etc., this is simply something that someone who has the right to pay and retire, because the law so requires cannot refuse. And then we had situations where some MPs, even though they didn't want to take it, were forced to take severance and were exposed to the court of the public. We have a situation where one of our colleagues was forced to accept the severance, donated the full amount for humanitarian purposes, and now his name is being withdrawn on various lists of people who took the severance. And that list isn't fake, the man did take severance money because he had no choice but to refuse it, but that list will never show that he gave the entire amount for humanitarian purposes. I therefore believe that this Law also achieves another purpose, which is to allow everyone to behave in accordance with moral principles so that they will not be able to take even one-off severances at all. The estimates are that significant savings will be achieved. In any case, more than 300,000 severance marks have been spent on elected and appointed officials in the past four years. Therefore, these statistics do not include government officials and savings will certainly be as millions as they were and, uh, in the case of previous laws proposed by the SBB. I pointed out that I would stick to the Rules of Procedure in this section, as the legislator of the Law to explain the content of the Law myself, and depending on the further discussion then I would take part in the debate itself. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15365	Thank you. So this is the debate in the second reading. It consists of a debate and a vote on the proposed amendments. I would ask, therefore, that we have that fact in mind when we are having a discussion on the laws. The word was answered by Mr. Dušanka Majkić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15366	I just want to ask that the relationship with the MPs be the same. If it's a discussion of principles then it's a discussion of principles and we know what that means, if the law in phase two has no story about the principles of law. So, some MPs use twice to say the same things because then they're... events. I beg you, I have nothing against it, but then you have to allow everyone to speak twice. So, we don't have any more amendments just phases that, no debates, but we're just discussing amendments, yes, please, to take the same criteria for all of us. I could never talk about principles when it was an amendment phase. So I ask you to level the criteria for all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15367	Well, it wasn't like that, Mrs. Majkić, always, I mean, we know each other here, so we know, we didn't stick to it and you know well that we didn't stick to it, but here I call on Parliament to stick to, therefore, strictly the Rules of Procedure. When the debate is in the second reading we are discussing amendments and voting on the law, of course, the vote is at the end of the agenda. Please respect that. There are no amendments here, it would be logical if there was no discussion. But here, Mr. Zaim Backović answered, I can't, uh, deny it. Please, if you have anything to do with the amendment to Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15368	In line with what was proposed, on the amendment, you know I don't have it, but since the motioner put it out and explained it, let me take two dilemmas out, if I may. It's very important, believe me...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15369	Come on, say it quickly, please. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15370	So it doesn't come to something called a court average tomorrow. We are in this House from two entities, we have been reported, when it comes to working legislation on two laws, the Law on the work of Republika Srpska and the Law on the work of the Federation of BiH, the competent institutions in the Federation and Republika Srpska. In the segment of what this Law speaks of, this Law enters into the working legislation of the Republika Srpska and the Federation. Is this, if I ask the promoter, so I am in favour and I will vote in favour, so there will be no dilemma, but is this in line with the Federation's working legislation and the working legislation of the Republika Srpska? It's very important, because it treats this 53 problem. And the working legislation by which we are employed is above this law. We need to know that, because we don't have a state-level labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15371	Thank you very much. Please, so this is a first-reading discussion, and that's where we need to discuss it. We came to the stage when the first reading was adopted, the amendment is gone. Mr. Arnaut you're the promoter you know that, if we're going to respect the Rules of Procedure, I need to conclude the debate. Do you insist on a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15372	I insist on just one reason why my colleague Bosić said I could get a word in as a promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15373	Oh, come on, please, so I got a warning here from the MPs and I think they were right when they turned their attention to the Rules of Procedure. I have to take care of the Rules of Procedure, but here, please, I can't stay silent.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15374	But here, if I can make it easier, Article 125(3), which speaks of a second reading, says that the legislator gets his word whenever he asks, so I really have...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15375	Come on, come on. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15377	Look, I really won't be long. So when it comes to what Mr. Backović was saying, uh, it's an elemental thing. There is a Law on Labour in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and it refers to all employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. So it's a groundless thing. Today, I don't know if we're going to have an entity majority today, to be honest, taking into account the comments of certain MPs, both in the media and at the House's session within the long points of the agenda. We've heard all sorts of arguments, we've heard that, we've actually heard a series of excuses, we've heard that sometimes MPs shouldn't be legislators. I'll remind you that sometimes it's necessary. We've heard the story of budget destruction. I don't know how budget destruction can be if you save a few million in your budget. I'm sure the Council of Ministers will find a way to spend that money, I hope they do it in some quality way. We've heard that 54 additional times should be given to the Council of Ministers, but we've also heard from Mr Bevanda that since July 2015, uh, he's been buying time. Hence, there is really no need for any additional time. I think we just haven't heard that this will be a transfer of jurisdiction if this bill is passed today. However, to be perfectly clear, today there is only one essential thing on the table, which is whether the severances will continue to be paid at enormous amounts of more than 25 and 30 thousand marks, or whether they will be brought to some reasonable extent to a maximum of 9,900. It's the only thing in the whole thing. When proposing legislation by MPs, I will remind myself that the Law on the Elimination of "white bread" and restricting fees for commission work has already saved millions. According to the recognition of Mr Bevanda, who was against the law in commissions, two million were saved on an annual basis. So there's only one question that matters here. I will also remind you, when the resolute minister in the past meeting refused to be the proponent of the Banishment Act on the Foreign Trade, because it was an amendment to the Criminal Law, then the SBB Club proposed the Law in that assembly. If she'd been there then...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15378	Please, would you mind if I could have your attention, Mr. Arnaut? You said you'd have a moment, please. So, this is at the border of the Rules of Procedure, please finish your discussion, I will not deny you the thoughts you need to say, but you must know this is a second reading, the attitude (1) of Article 125 determines the scope of the debate, and the attitude (3), to which you call, speaks about who participates in this scope. So it's true that you have the right to ask for a word whenever you think you need to, but in terms of the amendment. Come on, I didn't mean to be a problem, so please don't put me in an awkward position.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15379	Mr. Chairman, here's all I'm gonna say, I'd have ended up a lot faster before your exposure took place, and that's why I'm gonna stop now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15380	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15381	Mr. Chairman, I would like the record to determine that you are coalition partners and that you have a completely different view of who is from your coalition and of those who are not part of the coalition. What does that mean? For someone who constantly warns other persons or MPs to break the Rules of Procedure, it is Mr. Damir Arnaut himself who violates him by referring to Article 125, here you yourself have said that before that 125 there are 124 amendments. When other people were at stake and in the second reading they wanted to promote, as Mr Arnaut does, this is the SBB pre-election campaign for 2018, how much we saved at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you allow it all. So the unfair status of you as a College leads us to this situation that we stand at this point for 20 minutes because of your coalition partner's pre-election campaign. So it's not right. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15382	Thank you very much. I pray that this is, of course, writtenly determined, not to run away from it. I, of course, reject any insinuation. I'm closing the debate on this, please give up this debate. We're moving on to... _________(?) Correction of the wrong quote. Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15384	I really have no intention of discussing anything here at all right now, but I just want to remind my colleagues when they're in their discussions, let's just say this time they're actually principled to stick to these principles at all points of the agenda, because we're much more discussing things that aren't related to the relevant agenda point, but the essence of that agenda. Therefore, I also ask my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, to remember well what she said, because each time she will be in the next, at the next sessions of the notice, as well as everyone else who will be reminded of the occasion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15385	Please, then, the College will take care of it. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15386	A colleague of Maji Gasl-Vražalica-Devil. I am convinced that I was in line with Article 125(3) and Article 175(2), but the guilty allegation, I think it is an extremely absurd claim to accuse someone, a party, who began to abolish the "white bread" the day following this House's constitution, so four years before the elections, and then with the suspension of commission fees three years before the elections, so we do this two and a half years before the elections, that we are running an election campaign. Are you even aware of how absurd that is?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15387	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15388	First, should I ask Mr. Đonlagić if he's threatening me? These are statements of a threat that he will warn me every time. 56 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15389	Please, please, let me, don't, don't, don't. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15390	I think they have services to do that. That's the first one. Secondly, the stenogram will show what we will get, and the minutes, at the next session, that you Arnaut not mention in your discussion any amendments, you did not call for amendments, you talk 20 minutes about principles, and at the beginning of today's session you are saying how much SBB contributed to the savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So today we're talking about amendments, you in your discussion absolutely didn't mention any of it, you're just doing a promotion. Here we all need to be quiet and happy and happy to listen to your promotion for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15391	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, Deputy Chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15392	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, all present guests, I warmly welcome you all. I've been thinking for a long time whether I'd answer things like this, I don't think anyone needs a comment or a court of law on what's going on at Parliament's session. So that I don't keep talking, I'm asking for a half-hour break if some individuals apologize, etc., so we're going to continue in some kind of correct and fair atmosphere, because we have a lot more important things. I think anyone who has every other word of the Rules of Procedure, etc., and doesn't stand by it himself, I don't think those whose trust we enjoy here are worth anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15393	Thank you. I'm taking a break until 14:15. We'll continue at 14:15.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15394	Please take your seats so we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15395	We've got a quorum so no one comes out.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15396	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the hearing on item four. 57 We move to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2091/16, from 02/08/2016 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 36th session of the House, held on 19.10.2016. On 3.11.2016, the Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a Report on the Proposal for a Law. The Commission adopted the draft law. I'm opening a debate. MP Nikola Špirić applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15398	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. Well, since this is a second reading, actually here I've been thinking about whether this law can be modified in amendment, but mostly there are two ways to this law that are strategic. So, the aim of the Law is to regulate only two things, it is to introduce the Institute of Non-Court settlement and the status of assistant attorneys which was not in the previous law. And here, therefore, in Article 3, Article 3 relating to the addition of Article 13 is introduced the Institute of Peaceful Dispute Resolution as the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman, i.e. reaching an agreement on a settlement, and it is said further that up to 10,000 is the oral settlement, and over 10,000, therefore, is sought by the Council of Ministers. And I think that through these amendments and the additions of the Law one great opportunity for corruption is opened here, because, in fact, the intention is also confirmed by Article 2 which applies to Article 5 so far. The law governing the status of assistant attorneys and they have the status as constitutional judges, therefore, an unlimited mandate, and in the earlier law they were ranked as a senior civil servant, and now they are given special status under which they can perform their duties without restrictions on mandate, and that they cannot be prosecuted, arrested or detained, nor can they be held accountable in civil proceedings. Well, why am I saying this? This is why you look at the budget and restructure the budget, then you'll see why this is said. Therefore, expenditure on judicial judgments is growing year by year, which means that defenders do not defend the quality interest of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if they defend them in this sense in the way of free settlements, then difficult to budget. So, in 2014, 5 million marks were planned for judicial verdicts, and 6 million in 2015 and 7 million and 600 KM were executed for 2016. – 5 million but no funds to be paid, and for 2017 - 8... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, yeah, amendment, you can't make this change, because the point is this, so it doesn't make any sense what I'm saying. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15400	No, no, this is a second one, Mr. Špirić, please, no, but it has meaning everything, so it's not a matter, but it's a second reading and an amendment phase and a debate on amendments, and we don't have amendments, and you're talking about the essence for which the first reading is intended. So, first reading of the law is about what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15401	I just want to say what's the reason why we won't support these amendments and the additions of the law, and everyone who supports it will have to justify one moment why you're restructured into transfers for these purposes. And this year, not all judgments can be paid, those who take care of the budget. So, from 5 to 8.5 million, if you get into free deals then count on it to be a lot more... budget and that's why we won't support this law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15402	Thank you. So I assume you're that money of all, and of this current Council of Ministers, but also for the decisions of earlier Councils of Ministers. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Isolate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15403	I thank the chairman. It really isn't for you, given how you conducted the session when I was explaining my bill, you were correct and you gave me your word as a proprietor, and it all went at one fast pace. However, then your two colleagues began to call on this Rules of Procedure and I think everything became an unnecessary formalism, even from this club came criticism that I can't speak. So, I'm calling specifically for article 125, so let's see what article 125 is, but I don't understand that it was taken away from me, before the break, a word, and it's like the legislator because it was in the second reading of the law, and here we let a man who didn't propose the law to explain the essence of the law, no one interrupts it, and even in the last time I explained his law, so as a proposing, I have the right to speak by another member, then Mrs. Krišto even asked for a break. So we do have an unconsistent relationship, but what bothers me the most is when formalism takes over, and because of that formalism, we lost an hour instead of letting me end up proposing my exposure last time. And now we have a completely different contradictory situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15404	Thank you. Discussion, MP Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15405	Since I have no other way or to call the Rules of Procedure, I just didn't know Mr. Špirić was going to talk about what he was saying. And we are MPs, and we have, and so on, but we answer criminally and it is simply unclear that Article 2(3) says that they will not have 59 explicits, or that they have full immunity in this country. Imagine a lawyer who doesn't know who we're going to tell Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets -- that's okay, it's part of his jurisdiction, and it turns out to be a current dispute over the Sibenik port, which is an undisputed Bosnian Herzegovina and now the defender signs that it is no longer a Bashan-Herzegovina. I mean, we have to take care of it. There's no man who, even the Presidency of the State, or members of the Presidency, can't answer criminally, there's no man, and there's no one in the world, and here we are, and that's how we make the laws. That is why Bosnia and Herzegovina's patriotic party has come to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15406	Okay, thank you. Mr. Arnaut, you said you opposed the formalism that led to complications in the sessions. Here, I let it go for the sake of running a session of some established during which MPs speak, perhaps even past the Rules of Procedure, if we catch up with every word of the Rules of Procedure who came out of the topic and how, I'm afraid we'll never finish the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15407	Well, here, I'll be here until the end of fez, uh, since you didn't take my word from me, you were really correct when I proposed, you weren't there when my word was taken from me, when two, two members of the College, turned on to make it impossible for me to speak further, when several clubs were called to Article 125. The Rules of Procedure, and now no one suddenly calls. I really can't help it then, but since you've been very correct, I'm going to refrain now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15408	Thank you. We're closing the debate on the fifth point. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2194/16, of 05.08.2016 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 36th session of the House, held on 19.10.2016. On 3.11.2016, the Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a Report on the Proposal for a Law. The Commission adopted the draft law with eight amendments. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. I'm closing the sixth item of the agenda. We're going to the 7th, 60 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Administration Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2275/16, of 26/08/2016 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15412	I have to look back at this law that is definitely necessary, because we've had a certain part of the things that weren't regulated by this law, which are now being inserted into this Law. First of all, I would refer to this Article 5a) and where little is the case, I mean something that is necessary, this provision that says – that closer to the provisions on the fulfilment of the requirements for the issue of licences, licenses and qualifications cards, professional training of the transport manager, initial and periodic training of drivers, conditions that should be met by organisations carrying out the professional training of transport and driver managers, conditions for the rental of vehicles to others... and keeping a record of the licences issued by the Regulation is signed by the Minister of the Competent Ministry. Some of these things should definitely be determined, arranged by law. These things that are given here, certain powers of persons, so we have a situation now that we have to have regulations you're making, these rules are being passed, for example. In interspace when there is no minister. You have a situation in that ministry, for example. one rule which is spoken here, which refers to the Regulation on the conditions and procedure of issuing licences and qualified driver cards for carrying out international road transport, which allows for example. These institutions that are designated, and I don't know in which way, whether or not in relation to the people who work in the ministries, so we have 61 cases of government officials, employees or surrender at that school, that these institutions determine the price of these qualification cards, meaning they don't determine the ministry. You have a situation that the proposed criteria are, at all, for this price formation, which I think should be done by the ministry, because this is definitely the matter in which it should, which should be determined by law rather than by rules, and these are the things that I don't think it should, in my opinion, be coming. This Law must be extended to some of these regulations, so as not to have a situation to talk about this ministry in a negative light, about the relationships of individual managers with these institutions that do, for example, These exams, which issue qualifications cards, issue licences, so that it doesn't lead to problems that we can come to as far as this ministry is concerned. A law that is good, but which should definitely instead of regulations and some of these provisions legally determine, so that we wouldn't have a situation for some private institutions to train a driver, and that we have a situation where a law school, or some other institution that deals with this business, can't do it. And to me, I think this is a problem that we're going to feel even more in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15413	Thank you. We don't have any more requests to discuss this item on the agenda. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to nine points of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Compensation in Court and Prosecutoral Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2617/16, since 11.10.2016 (first reading), shortened procedure The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 14.10.2016, which found that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives but not in accordance with Rule 145 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. As far as compliance is concerned, the bill's proposal with the Single Rules, its structure, form and style does not follow the text of the Law on Salaries and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted in 2005 in terms of marking views. At the 38th session, held on 18.10.2016, the House College appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider the draft law. The Commission submitted its opinion on 09.11.2016. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on 3.11.2016. The Commission has established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15415	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. First, I will remind you of the chronology of the events when it comes to the regulation of salaries and intentions for participants, prosecutors for all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is known that in 2005, the High Representative imposed laws on the salaries of judges and prosecutors in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District. The law is imposed 62 explaining the need for the adoption of these laws in a way to establish in absolute terms, during that time, the high salaries of judges and prosecutors and to balance wage ratios between all administrative levels of government. Such a procedure established the highest salaries in the Constitutional Court, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and then entity Supreme Courts, and further cantonal, district and municipal courts. High wages meant that the total receipts were clear and transparent and there were no additional charges on any basis. That was the purpose of the legislator at the time. The first to bring down the system, imagine, was the Constitutional Court of BiH, which, on its own, was exempt from the application of this Law and established salaries and compensations according to its own opinion. So there is no law by which the salaries and fees of the Constitutional Court are regulated. After this, it was logical that representatives of the Court, the Prosecutor's Office and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina pressured the Constitutional Court and received judgments through appeals, and now we are in the situation in which we are. I remind you that this is a matter that the Council of Ministers has tried to solve in a systematic manner by regulating the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in addition to the salaries of all other employees, judges and prosecutors. It was in the past term and then there were strong pressures whether it was political interference, not political interference, and the law did not adopt any home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Now, what's going on now? According to lawsuits by judges and prosecutors at the state level, the BiH Court is now ruling in their favour, which is no wonder, as they provide themselves with higher incomes. Judges and prosecutors from the Federation of BiH have received all the rights to additional fees from the Constitutional Court decisions, while judges and prosecutors from Republika Srpska cannot exercise these rights, so judges and prosecutors from Republika Srpska are now in a more vulnerable position. And if it is the legislator's intention to subdue, as was the High Representative's intention, then I'm afraid the legislator has not reached its goal. So here is where the first destruction was made by the Constitutional Court because it excluded itself and then they all complained with the chain and went into change. And I can assure you that this is not about finding a system solution, but is about trying to save the budget from a ruling by the Court of Justice against which there is no legal remedy. And I think we're going to get into a situation very quickly that we're going to do a critical analysis, because there won't be any funds in the payout budget. So, I think that this law should return to the Proposer that, if it works, it brings a unique criterion for judicial insemination, because separate life and the rest does not know the judiciary in Republika Srpska. So we did nothing but try to stop the trend of judgment in favour of the people who, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, used their right. And I'd like the promoter to explain to me how he achieves his goal in this law, here he is, now in his first reading. I think this is a budget destruction and that you should think about it very carefully. I don't mind having this area settled, but in this way I think that, I don't know who the author of these changes is, but I'm afraid so, and that's why we're going to vote against this law in the first reading. So... they make the most judicial institutions. If the law is imposed under which the Constitutional Court is exempt, but if the Constitutional Court is excluded, why not exempt the others. By following that logic, we have come to a situation where every day there is pressure on the budget through judgments, but this is not settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15416	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15417	I thank the chairman. So the fact is that we have judgments that cost us, cost us because we pay, the budget pays and squeezes interest. The Constitutional Court has said what it has said, and it is up to us now to carry out that 63 verdict. However, there is one problem here in general, and I am sorry that we don't have a real minister here, because I don't know who I'm talking to, we have the next problem, the judge or prosecutor comes to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the BiH Court of Justice from, I don't know, here Bihac, from Banja Luka and he's here in a working relationship, he can spend his entire working life in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and his entire working life we pay him, and here we all know, there's a lot of us from East Sarajevo, that most of the judges and prosecutors who work here in the D.A. have, and their apartments are bought, come from other parts, and we pay them a separate life, compensation for one, the other. This should be regulated by law, if someone has already chosen to work in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and to continue their professional career then it must be logical and to change his residence address, not to give me 30 years of this theoretically, means we can give him full-time benefits for a living, which is completely pointless. And I'm sorry that there is no minister of justice here to see how and how this issue is solved, because this has really become a very bad completely pointless practice that serves only to build up incomes, and that really the situation is something quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15418	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15419	Let's say I fully agree with what Mrs Pandurević said, that this issue should be settled legally, but I also guarantee you, since you advocate that the Council of Ministers delivers comprehensive amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds, I guarantee you that Minister Bevanda will never put it in any bill of law to regulate this separate life in this way. I suggest you say what the MP has to suggest, so you're completely inconsistencies. We cannot wait for a minister who does not want to propose certain savings to do so, the only thing left for us is for individual MPs to propose these savings. And here, if you suggest it I guarantee you that the SBB Club will support it, that they will vote for it, but you, you don't want to support it and you voted against the severance reduction. So it's an empty, empty story and you completely ignore the essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15420	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15421	...if Minister Bevanda could have proposed a Regulation on savings where only in the budget for 2015 saved 23.3 million marks I don't see why Minister Bevanda wouldn't suggest this kind of savings. As for severance, yes, we are for system solutions, because those solutions that are proposed to work on boards and boards are already very much costing us, because unfortunately it's not well written, so we have a blockade of the work of entire institutions. And to avoid such situations, I think the only system solution can be proposed by the Council of Ministers. And my most well-intentioned rendition.), knowing the authority of Mr. Radončić, I believe that at the 64 meeting of leaders, it will be very easy to reach agreement with Minister Bevanda, or Mr. Čović, that we get to that solution without a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15422	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15423	Here we go again, so he talks without facts and talks by heart. The report by the Office for the Review of BiH Institutions for 2015, which he signed, among other things, and the deputy chief auditor, which was the SDS proposal, on page 11, praised the adoption of a law that you have now quoted, so the one which has reduced or completely abolished commission fees during working hours. It is one of only seven recommendations made by the BiH Institutions Audit Office, only seven recommendations made and the only one that has been passed by law. You know how many on the next page there are unfinished recommendations 52. So when you say that this law has done damage I guarantee you do not quote any official document, no report, no quotes, you just say something that absolutely does not stand, which is absolutely unfounded, nothing is justified. And what I'm saying is the official report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office where they praised the adoption of the law, where they found significant savings were achieved and found that their recommendations were carried out, which is only one of the seven recommendations made, and then they go to 52 that have not been implemented. So I call you, indeed, when you make such claims that something has done damage, that the law has done some damage, then you are bound to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, ultimately these MPs, to justify it, but you have nothing, nothing you can call for.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15424	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15425	Well, you see, dear fellow, when we passed that law, we said the right to compensation does not have them if they work during working hours, which they do, which receive salaries from the BiH institutions' budget and entity budgets. And I remember very well at that commission session, we all said together that there was a need to leave out the cantonal and municipal levels of government, that it doesn't apply to these people because they don't have high incomes anyway. And then, you can check here in Parliament, we have committees where people who work are appointed, here's great I know, because I'm torturing this woman, who she named, named the Alliance for Change, who works in the Municipality of Gradiška for a salary of 700 marks and has no right to compensation, so the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance, and a woman needs no right to come from Gradiška twice a month here to Sarajevo because the Ministry of Finance says, you know what she did in the end, sued, and she'll get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15426	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing at point nine. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15427	You won't close you have reported yet...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15428	Yes, Damir Arnaut, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15429	Thank you. We're gonna finish this session just fine. So all this talk is about one woman who's been reduced to compensation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15430	The tenth item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – applicant: BiH High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, issue: 01,02-08-2601/16, since 07.10.2016 At the 38th session held on 18.10.2016, the House College appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission as responsible for considering the Report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 3.11.2016. The Commission took note of the report. High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council President Milan Tegeltija sent a letter saying - because of the meeting of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, and the memorial and funeral of former High Court and Prosecutorial Council member Mr Amir Jaganjac, we inform you that a representative of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is unable to attend 27.(?) Meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives held on 09.11.2016. So we don't have any representatives of the High Court and Prosecution Council. The college's proposal is to postpone the debate on this point until the next session we expect representatives to appear. I'm putting the college's proposal to vote. For 30, v. 1, abstention 8. There's an entity majority, so we've postponed this point until the next session. We're going to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations – submiter: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, material number: 01,01/4-16-1-2008/16, since 25.07.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15433	Thank you. So, I think it's good to say a few words and not fly over this report because the Finance and Budget Commission has been working intensively on the audit reports these days, but never this Parliament, and neither has the Commission itself, dealt intensively with impact audit reports. Thanks to the need, the Office for Audits sensed that there was no response from Parliament as its first partner, the decision was made to, therefore, be analysed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 01.07.2013 to 30.06.2014 and to see what was actually happening, which is why the audit recommendations are not being met. This is becoming alarming, because practically the moment Parliament takes a decision, that is, to accept the audit opinion of that moment ceases any interest in the impact review. So, for the review, the financial audit still keeps us awake, we report more often and we discuss it, but the impact audits have remained totally out of the Parliament's interest. Now, how terrible is a few data. The Paramentary Assembly has adopted the report and the institution's obligations to implement the recommendations of the revision and now watch the state, since the publication of the last audit report, which means one year, over 47% of the recommendations made have not taken any action to implement them, 45% of the recommendations have been implemented partially and need to work on them further, and only 8% of the recommendations have been estimated to have been fully implemented, so the audit shortages have been removed. What does that mean? Look at what an alarming finding the audit is. The most recommended is the Council of Ministers, which has not yet developed mechanisms and capacities for active monitoring and analysis of recommendations. Imagine such a finding, after so many years of working on the audit, that we have found that the Council of Ministers still has neither developed mechanisms nor capacities, nor we know when they will begin to develop these mechanisms and capacities and whether they will do so at all, because otherwise impact audits have become their own purpose. Why should the Office of Audit, which requires much more knowledge for the impact review, much more specialists and specialists in the Office, be so concerned with the seriousness of each of these problems which has been analysed, that it is experiencing that when Parliament does not fully care, and the Council of Ministers in particular. So the Council of Ministers doesn't care about that because Parlametn is being treated like this. If Parliament's interest were more serious, the Council of Ministers would do so differently. But another piece of information, that more than 30% of the institutions have not even provided information to the Office for Auditing at all what's going on on on that plan and why they haven't done anything to move on the impact review. So, total carelessness. So what I think Parliament needs to do is some way towards changing the situation, within Parliament's working bodies it is necessary to consider the possibility that those, those working bodies that do not have enough activity, can be considered that the Finance and Budget Commission is split into two parts, one commission to deal only with the budget, finance and budget, and the other to deal with the audit, and that would allow the continuity of work, because the review committee would have the task not only to present here an audit report, but to have the task of insisting and monitoring the implementation of audit recommendations. If we do nothing and if this Parliament does not show hearing and interest and for such a thing, then we have a revised institution that does a job that no one cares about. It is up to us to help find what the Office of Audit finds that we insist on meeting these recommendations. Thank you. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15434	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15435	Today, however, discussions have narrowed down to a little bit shorter, whether it's thematics or not, I don't know what it is anymore. The only thing I want to say is that if we read this report, we understand that what we raise our hands for is something that is nothing and no one respects it. If we have raised our hands and adopted such a report, and we belong to the legislative authority, or to those who are commanders, however you will, and to us the Council of Ministers has been subdued, the institutions are obliged to carry out what we have adopted. As the report comes in so we see that all of what we've adopted is multiplied by zero, or we're multiplied by zero. Is it really the relationship of those who are called executive power to those who are not set up, but chosen, and those who have a duty to deal with something called structure, something called legality, something called order, something called work, something called the improvement of this country? When, you can analyze pages by page, tables by table, diagram by diagram, and we'll see that we've been raising our hands into blanks. And I suggest that we no longer adopt reports in the future, because then we bear part of the blame for what we adopted, and we did not follow whether it was adopted. Obviously, what report comes in so it turns out that everything we voted for is nothing. I therefore suggest that the conclusion be adopted – that from the day of our term we adopt it be delivered to us, and that what we have adopted is realized. Because we adopt, but it's not real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15436	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Špirić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15437	Gentlemen chairman. I have a slightly different opinion when the audit reports are at stake, I think that... I was also in power, now I'm also an opposition, and I'm afraid when Parliament doesn't have a lot of work, when there's no law, then everyone would be investigating, being investigators, being prosecutors, being prosecutors, being this or that she is, but I want to say that people make a lot of effort to make an audit report. It passes through the Parliamentary Assembly to give it greater importance and we cannot change that report, we are adopting it. All institutions in this country should do their jobs if the judiciary and the prosecution reads and sees that there is something similar to crime that will process it, not every reserve report must be a crime report. I can't be surprised at the MPs who cry out that they're on the investigative committees, I just can't believe it, so we'd also like to be auditors, and to be judges and to be prosecutors. People have sent audit reports, when Parliament adopts them, means it gives them meaning as the highest instance and that they are public documents that competent institutions should read. It's the way we act like people want to be vigilante hordes, they don't like someone there at some agency, the ministry, and they say, "Yeah, here it is with the reserve, we're asking this to be prosecuted by the prosecution." 68 No, the prosecution has to be so responsible that you don't tell him to do it. That's why I think it would be good if we were dealing with the essence of legal projects and everyone was doing their part of the job. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15438	Thank you. We're out, we've got Nikola Lovrinović, the discussion. Please...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15439	He has Zaim Backović first.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15440	Okay, just to let you know that I'm limiting the discussion to five minutes, although no one's even gone five minutes yet, thank you for that. At 4:30, there is already an appointment for the College to take an hour off, so please, since we don't have too many agenda points to bear in mind that it would be good if we could finish by 4:30. We're going to the 12th, no, no, I'm sorry, there's a correction to the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15441	Of course I don't want to replicate, or be rude in the formulation, namely, Nikola, I didn't mean no investigation, but I thought I was making decisions. Some attitudes may be such that they are inconclusive, and then those who are in debt would be obliged to tell us – attitude (11) is inconclusive and the reason and that, attitude (34) is inconclusive, that and that. This is how the vacuum space is, we have here not implemented, on the other hand we have silence, we don't know why it wasn't implemented. Of course, I know that what's listed in the audit reports isn't a crime, I know it well. In the business and work of many things, one who does not know can accept as an impious shop without knowing that such an operation must be performed in order to do anything at all. I only ask that this interspecies between Parliament and the Council of Ministers, however, be that we have feedback after we adopt something. So nothing else, not to form any commissions, nothing, because if they say they can't, we'll look at why they can't, so maybe we'll say it's not true, this can or here are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15442	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in order to be constructive, on the basis of what colleagues previously discussed on this subject, I propose one conclusion, and it would read: – Conclusions on pages 19, 31, 46 and 59 of the Council of Ministers should be carried out until the next report, and otherwise run responsibility for holders of authorised functions. 69 For they said there what was not done, what was to be done, etc., they make sense when certain deadlines are given, so are they described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15444	Thank you. So here's the information that came from the Council of Ministers to analyse the execution of our conclusions and at what stage, so it will be distributed to the MPs so they can look at it. Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15445	Very short, just two sentences. I am grateful to the institution, the main audit service indeed on a correct report, which states exactly how it is, so there is no hairstyle here, the situation is exactly as it is written in this report. What I think is missing is the issue of parliamentary oversight. So, this is doing well by the Defence Commission, for example, that this second commission also seems to me that the situation here through Parliament could be improved, because MPs would have the opportunity to ask all those who do not comply with the obligations of this report for which they do not do so and they would be obliged to do so on the way, not by any investigation, of which Nikola Špirić spoke, but by what we have through the Rules of Procedure as a possibility, which is a matter of parliamentary oversight. Here's just one brief suggestion, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15446	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Information on foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 and Report on activities of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-24/16, since 16/09/2016. (Realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 24th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 03.02.2016) At the 38th session held on 18.10.2016, the House College appointed information to be discussed by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. The Commission submitted its opinion on 3.11.2016. The Commission took the information into account. I'm opening a debate. The first for discussion came from MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15448	Thank you. Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. 70 I realized that one of the representatives of the Council of Ministers would be present today and that he would hear at least, if nothing, what fellow MPs would say about the information our colleague Bećirović asked for, and thank him for asking for it, because it was an opportunity for us to discuss this matter. Namely, the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission said, among other things, that this could serve as a good basis for the debate in the House of Representatives, and this debate was supposed to be today, and that the Council of Ministers is actually hearing what is bothering foreign investors so that the level of foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina at least returned to the one since 2006, '07. The year he was two billionaires and 600 or 700 million. Today it is at a very low, defeating even more, level for probably a few reasons, and some of the reasons were, here is the Commission's debate on foreign trade and customs. And we couldn't reach agreement on the assessment of what all the causes of such a drastic fall in foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina are, though, truth be told, if we entered into the structure of foreign direct investment, we would actually see that there are no serious foreign direct investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I say. What we had was a sudden jump in 2006, '07. This is actually the result of the sale of a telecom operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina or the result of the sale of some of the banks that have come to extract capital from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here's my assessment of what actually prevents foreign investors from investing in Bon and Hercegovina, among other things, the bad political situation. You know each of our extremes or not to say right-wing political messages, even in Parliament, is certainly one of the obstacles to a direct foreign investor investing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then the bad image of Bosnia and Herzegovina in every respect, and in terms of fighting corruption, in terms of legal certainty, in terms of everything that is measurable and what measures are being taken by those who are interested in investing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then an unfavourable environment for foreign direct investment, actually a bad business environment. Insufficient promotion and conditions for investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which should be taken into account by our Investment Promotion Agency. There has been mentioning that an inaccessible long wait is even VAT number from the indirect tax administration, which is actually our reality, which is our administrative obstacle. In the age of informing society, we have a situation that we do not have an electronic administration, which has been spoken of even in the last term in this House, but it is obvious that there is no political will to implement such a thing at all levels, which in many ways would prevent and here is corruption that is evident, unfortunately, at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then the lack of incentive measures when it comes to foreign investors, the foreign direct investor does not want to invest in a country where there is no benefit in which he would invest in one, here by nature things, a very insecure country, with an uncertain environment. It is therefore necessary for the Council of Ministers to finally establish an investment strategy, namely to define investment policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which segments the foreign investor would invest. Obviously not, but here seems to be no one to hear from the Council of Ministers except here's our agile minister Borovac who's been with us all day. And, of course, inadequate public communication when it comes to promoting opportunities and capacities in Bosnia and Herzegovina for foreign investment. These are some of the assessments heard on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, as well as on the Commission responsible, but in any case it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to actually say what they want and what they want, and where they want to invest, and of course to provide an ambience for and preserve and multiply here are the capital, if you will, which is invested in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15449	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Špirić. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15450	Gentlemen chairman. I'll just say briefly, I also spoke to the Commission, I think that FIPA as the Agency for Promotion of Ino-Investration was formed at the time of the grand reforms, when manifesting needed to create as many state addresses as possible, and then FIPA was created, one agency without competence. So, fellow Mehmedović also said all the reasons we had this FIPA report. And since she's a budgetary user, no one deals with the essence of ino-investment, and the Agency is, in that sense, without competence. I think it's expensive for this country to spend almost a million dollars a year and a half of the budget on reports that the ino-investments are falling and that it should be seriously considered. When people look at it this way, they say -- well, he's against Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he wants to end FIPA. But I think FIPA is unproductive with the title it has, no matter who's sitting, current management, past management, etc. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no... investment, there are investments that are related to privatisation, there is no more. And I think we're going to get into a situation where the FIPA budget is going to be bigger than the volume of ino-investment if this trend continues. But to be yet... and therefore I have no objection to the management of the report, and it is not illogical that it was passed to the Council of Ministers, but it is a shame that it was forwarded to Parliament, without the Council of Ministers showing no competence to assist FIPA in its basic task, if it is possible at all that it can do by the competences it has. And then we got the Programme of Measures, and here you see from 19 planned activities for next year to holding meetings there are seven activities that involve only official travel, and each of these activities is otherwise formulated for example. One activity is participation in specialized business forums, meeting at conferences, and other participations in the most important specialized investment fairs, the third participation on round tables, meeting on the ground, etc. All these activities will not boost investment investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Four activities talk about promotional materials, writing brochures, and then the new brochure is translated into English and French, the third one being installed in the logo by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And then it is a crucial, therefore, contribution to FIPA by promoting ino-investment in the use of Facebook and Jutjub in promoting investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will not say anything, therefore, about management I know the situation, and this is us gentlemen, this is the Council of Ministers, and this is Parliament, and this is your ino-investment, and until we sit in this country and see what the problem is for the ino-investment, what is only shyly mentioned by fellow Mehmedović, and until the Council of Ministers does so we will get reports that cost a million and a half marks of the budget in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15451	Thank you. Next, Ambassador Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15452	Well, we're all short, so let me try and be brief again. The very title of our agency is, he has three names of the Agency for Promotion, the Agency for Promotion and when you translate English, if anyone knows what it means there, there is the Agency for Promotion, or representing foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, completely different meanings. But let's go back to this little brief report that we have and try us, like those who are also obliged to create an ambience 72 for some investments, analyze and then we'll come up with very strange data, of course not by blaming those in the Agency, because they, I see it because I communicate with them, great efforts, communicate with them, but they are not supported by our side and by the entity's still local levels when it comes to foreign investment. And we have a situation, which Mr. Šemso spoke of, these two sharp jumps that are actually a sale of assets, and these assets, these money no longer exists, but it's not even owned by the state, and these are now exporters of money from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We export money for what someone has invested in improving business and creating miles of better business in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are two examples, such as telecommunications, one operator, and another is the banking sector. Is anyone seriously involved in giving us a report on how much money the citizens, businesses, etc. have been exported through what is called the profits of this sector, and how real it is invested in this sector and whose money today is being placed on both our citizens and our companies, if we know that savings is more than 10 billion KM. Then whose money is in circulation? We were very zealous in destroying and selling out the domestic banking sector, the best example for that is, here we are sitting, in the Federation, something that nowhere in the world has failed, the Post Office Bank with exposures, not just in every municipality, but in place, in more places in every municipality in the Federation. And she goes down, that's very interesting. Another thing, to impose business models and that's actually what made us not have any control. Why isn't payment traffic suspended in Croatia, why? Why isn't it abolished in Serbia, why isn't it in Montenegro? It was only abolished in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And on every bank transaction, they take a commission and we nod, instead of there being a system of payment of mutual payment, and it would have both sources of funds and tracking, and we wouldn't have phantom firms and we wouldn't have any more. But very quickly and slowly we accepted what others had imposed on us. In the overall analysis, I hope the moment will come to talk about it, because this report only gives me the opportunity to mention, look how much is here in the trading sector, again the exporter of money, not someone who produces money and gives extra value, but exports, trade chains, trade lobbys. Is it possible that we don't prefer what's domestic, so we destroy four brewers, then we destroy the factory for The production of hops in Rogatica destroyed, there is no, sweetness, I apologize, well, that's how I can count to heaven. [[Employee is warned on time]] Is it possible that we don't think about what's going to happen to our generations, what they're going to live on? No, we're not thinking, you, it's no problem if I can't finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15453	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15454	It is necessary to give the Agency instructions, to make it from the local community of real projects, to forget about exporting money, to start thinking about exporting products and creating excess value. The wood industry is destroyed, the agricultural industry is destroyed, the metal industry is destroyed. What do we have left? The air, no one ever survived from the air. If that were the case in Namibia, The whitest people in the world were. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15455	Thank you. This was an extended sentence. Fehim Škaljić, a debate. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15456	Thank you and welcome. It confuses me that in a situation where investors bypass us, Parliament takes that fact to know, for me it is an alarm, not to accept knowledge, but to take whatever it takes to be the space where investors see the motives to invest. It turns out that in 2015, one of the worst years in the 10-year period, worse was only '09. And in '13, and probably '16. It's worse than '15. And we received knowledge and took responsibility for that information that came to us simply was enough information to be. This is a fact for me, thank you for the Agency's information, to be an extraordinary session of Parliament, for the Council of Ministers to prepare a special approach on what to do. When we look at who has invested in these ten years, then we see that these have been invested by countries whose economic potential is not particularly high except Russia, Austria, Serbia, Croatia and Russia, but Europe's largest economy bypasses us. In 20 years, the Nijemac invested 326 million or 5.4% of total investment. They are not incompetent to make value. They have shown that they know and are wise, and why they go around us, who is and how he sat down to talk to them, what we should change. I mean, there's a lot of things that ask us to play an active role. It's a shame that in situations where we have continuity, it falls to the fact that we're satisfied with the fact that we get to know each other, it's formalizing our responsibility in terms of what my concerns are and it's not taking the things that are necessary to have a better life, a better life for the individual and for the groups, because it's investing, there are jobs. We're getting into a new year, we're already pretty late with this fact, the developed Western world has already planned what it will do next year. And what did we do to make it an environment for better investment? The Agency for Promotion is only one on the peripheral levers of the whole government's work to be a space favourable to investment. Take a look at the position the Republic of Macedonia is in investment-like assessments, the top of the world. And where are we? All over the place at the beginning and our reaction received knowledge. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15457	Thank you. Discussion, Ambassador Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15458	Well, I'll discuss this report very briefly. I would like to say that what is really incomplete for me, routinely made, does not give us much information, writes around here – data on direct foreign investment from Bosnia and Herzegovina's balance of payments are not available by country or activity. After that, we have the descriptive text as much and as much as it says why it is a problematic foreign investment, and from these two data by country and by activity we would get very interesting and important parameters for possible future action, or perhaps see by countries who are really our partner and friend Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it's no problem, here's what we don't have in Parliament in this report, in this information this information is, but if this information isn't daily available to everyone who's dealing with this business, we're in trouble, because we don't know who we're going to be working with bilaterally seriously or discuss future investments with, who we're worth talking to and we don't know, which is particularly important, what activities we're dealing with, how we're going to force or improve those activities that are pro-pulsive to us, and not those that might be counterproductive to us in these direct foreign investments. So here's without that information, not to speak further, we have one missing piece of information created on the basis of an agent's request, we got it, we can take it in knowledge, it didn't give us much relevant information. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15459	Thank you. Ambassador Safer Demirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15460	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome everyone present, of course. Perhaps the most important point of today's agenda is for two reasons. The first thing that we can have through foreign investment is a certain picture of possible jobs, what's important to our citizens' lives, and the second is to see how people, who are willing to invest in our country, see if they see us as a safe country, some environment where they can and want to invest their money or run away from us. What it says in this information is really devastating about the scale of foreign investment and of course we're definitely doing very little work on, to make this trend very negative. As far as the Agency's report itself, this section relating to its work, the Agency has proposed there some measures that we should do in the future to improve foreign investment, it has detected these potential problems and given us a tax on what entities and states have done so far to remove these barriers for foreign investment and there it seems to me that it is doing two measures for each entity and for the state, which is very, very little. This morning, we've been through, in fact, one question today, and what puts this foreign investment together, and what we further complicate things, we had about, say, here for DITA, where in this time when we're looking for a potential investor for DITA how to bring in a man who buys it tomorrow can't sell his product through only Majevica in Bijeljin. Of course, it's no better on the other hand, we have Republika Srpska's remarks about the transport of gas, so we have a general unsettled state in the country. If we know that the countries around us are doing everything we can to attract foreign investment, to have our country as well as we have, I think we have a lot of work to do and do to raise investment to a higher level. There are none of us entities in a better position than the other, nor is a canton more successful than the other, we have to say that, we have a local community, a couple of local communities who know how to attract investment and who can deal with all this machinery and bring people who are willing to invest money in that environment, and of course we don't even have to judge such people, and we have opportunities and today we've heard about some private projects and things like that. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15461	Thank you. The next MP, Mirsad Isaković, Damir Bećirović, I apologize, has the wrong quote, so he has the advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15462	I just have to brief my colleague Emrić. replicating, so what they're doing, I mean it's not investing, it's lending and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15463	Ambassador Mirsad Isaković. Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15464	I thank the chairman. Well, I really won't be long for the simple reason why colleagues have already said the basic things that should be said, is this investment, but what is important is to point out that capital is looking for political stability. So it is obvious that since 2007, where there were 2 billion and 600 investments, in 2015 we have only 473 million, so we come into a situation where there is no political stability where direct investors would invest capital in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, it's also important and..., that is, the ambience,... the environment for attraction. It is obviously missing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we do not have companies that have reinvested in Bosnia and Herzegovina again, so who once came or stayed in pain or returned urgently. So what's important is that strong economies, world economies, including Europeans, are not present in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will notice that German capital is very little represented, with only about 374, five million, so we see that while businesses such as Slovenia, Austria or some other neighbouring or nearby countries are very present. Something that is very important to me is that we lack a lot of projects, we do not have enough, therefore, projects, or we have no idea of attracting foreign investment. I'd like to point out here that we're also a very little-application country, and in previous points we've figured it out, and according to the IPA funds. So, I will point out that only Croatia in the year it joined the EU, so it had 800 to 1,000 people who were involved in project-making. So the conclusion is simple we don't have an ambience, political stability is insecure and we have no idea of attracting foreign investment. Here I am, I don't think I've been long.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15465	Hala. A message from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15466	I thank the chairman. So, from the information delivered by the Agency itself, nothing new has been found out, nor has anything different been delivered in the report itself on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2015, for which we receive five minutes to discuss, so we do not arrive in those five minutes to comment on something worth paying attention to. That's another topic now. I would like to point out that if this information is compared to the Council of Ministers' Work Report, where the Agency gave its Report, everything is the same except that they stated in the report that a major contribution to the promotion of investment potentials is a visit from Japanese journalist Nišihame, who writes about positive stories from Bosnia and Herzegovina in Japanese media. Only that dictionary is somehow lost in this report now, everything else is the same. What am I saying? I would like to say that the Agency, which for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, in fact, would have been a very good idea when it was founded in 2004, but since it is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, would have gone in the wrong direction somehow, because no one is, or those who act in power then or now is not really meant to promote Bosnia and Herzegovina or to work on its promotion. So people are named, hired, employed by party cards, not competences. Why is that? This is also seen from the Report, and it is very good that today we also have the Office for Auditing, that is, where they have just given a review of the Agency, i.e. the FIPA, and there will be more information about FIPA, about the state of FIPA than the FIPA itself wrote about itself. So the Audit Office recommends for them for a long number of 76 years to carry out an objective evaluation of the strategic plan that they have had all these years and what has been implemented, why we are in stalemate, why there are no foreign investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And they are now calling in their report that they have sent this Council of Ministers' meeting a new strategic document '16-20. They're waiting for his adoption, so you know in that wait now they're lost both in time and in space. So I can't agree with Mr. Backović who says they don't have any support from us. What kind of support they need from us when they in their Report are neither honest enough nor competent enough to write why the situation is the way it is. So they have the law under which they were established in this law, or mission and role of the Agency, is quite different from what they state here. So they don't even meet their legal obligations. That this is also the testimony of the Audit Office's recommendation that there is no database on domestic companies by sector of activity and with their basic data. What does that mean? I worked in a German Chamber of Commerce that is independent of FIPA and I know very well how FIPA works. Their preparation for Bosnia and Herzegovina to promote somewhere in the world is very strange and very surprising, and it is important for them to get ready to go, take a few of their promotional materials, stand where they are, of course, here in the entire report all comes down as they were out there, promote Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there is no feedback on what happened if they went to some fair and if they did the promotion of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is there any further concrete steps they have taken to get some foreign investors to Bosnia and Herzegovina? So their report comes down that they are going outside to attract foreign investment, but the question is – what did they do here on the ground to fully promote Bosnia and Herzegovina as one positive or investment site by foreign investors? It's not there. Therefore, FIPA does not deserve its reports to be adopted at all as adopted or received information. Here we all have to make a commitment to change something in the law itself or in their report, through some conclusions to make them bound to enforce legal provisions which is why they were established. So, if today we didn't have this, the previous point of the Audit Office and the more information that has given what's the problem in FIPA, we'd probably go over this today and say, well, what's not the upside climate, there's the drop in investment, we don't have this information. So my key question is - why has FIPA since 2004 since its founding until the day of today not worked on the database, on domestic and business activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15467	Thank you. Ambassador Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15468	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A little Shaitan won't give me peace, this part of the agenda comes to me as a light motive. Is this on, it is. I mean, we're about to, you know, pull it out, do we, I know, we've all accepted the Bosnia and Herzegovina score matrix, so even we're saying it, not only at this session, we all often mention it, that we're not a good country, that we're not good at investment, that we're not good at credit ratings, that we're not having these investments, etc., etc., now I'm not saying it at all, not wanting to say whether it's true or not, of course I can't, that I can't, that's doing, that's too much for me, it's got a smarter head, but what I'm saying. If that's all right, if it's all like that then I ask myself and all of us, so if we're bad guys, 77 bad countries, it's not a good climate, it's not a good environment, we're not..., nothing's wrong with us, how come these foreign investors from democratic Western countries in such a bad Bosnia and Herzegovina came and took the banks. Why they took the banks, because we're bad guys, it's not a good environment here, why they took insurance, why they took telecom operators, and they tried to take others, why they wanted energy, all the forces are trying to take energy from any potential, etc., etc.? Because it's their interest, because it's huge money, and we're a small and, unfortunately, disorganized state and we're dealing with ourselves. Then when they pull out the money, millions and tens of millions of us keep our mouths shut, then we're the good guys. When we naively believe that they will come here to invest,...our existential questions, our social issues, our funds, naively we think that any of them will ever come and solve these issues. Why do we have to give our money from Bosnia and Herzegovina to their banks, and it's worth, in the interest sense, 0.0, some say 6%, it doesn't have to be exactly what I'm saying, and when that same money their banks take and return to Bosnia and Herzegovina, they give it to us for interest 4, 5, 6, 7, how much, 8%. Are we naive, crazy? Our money's worth so much to them, and that same money when they take it from us and then it's worth, what, a tenth or a hundred times more. A friend of mine told me a story about these, and creditors, of course, are one investment, are one loan, but somewhere after the war he worked in state institutions, he understands in this sector, in banking, and they came to him with the intention of making deals to take new loans with a story that they help countries, how they develop them, how they get out of the crisis, etc., and he's the kind of guy who made himself naive and asked them, he had some map of the world in his office, and he asked – the rich one with the finger that the country of the world had pulled out of the crisis, or helped, or developed, or all the ones you pointed out almost came into debt. It is indisputable that they come only then and only when they have their own interest in terms of cheap labour, cheap energy and extracting high profit rates. And what we should do is we should turn to ourselves, make ourselves better, do more work, save and invest and respect domestic investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15469	Thank you. MP Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15470	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I must say that as a longtime parliamentarian I am very disappointed with the report that was delivered, this is a scarce report. We who have been represented in at least one term of office in the state parliament know that this report, when read, has no real connection and contact with all that has been said in the previous meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I have the feeling that FIPA representatives have never been to a session of the House of Peoples of the BH Parliament and of the House of Representatives. Taking care of the facts of what they propose, which are the activities to be taken, they do not know that there is no political will in Bosnia and Herzegovina to place agriculture at the state level. For what? Only out of interest so that we can attract foreign investment from European funds, from... There's no political will, and I don't know what they're writing here in papers. But it's also about energy. It doesn't scare me. I am afraid of the fact, is it possible that they have never heard on our discussions at Parliament that the representatives, many of us who are here, have repeatedly discussed the need to raise economic diplomacy to a higher level? You, Mr. Chairman, remember that, so they convinced us that these were not the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think they certainly are, with the fact that I don't think that from the ranks of those proposed by FIPA should motivate people, because there are people who will go through the DKPs to 78 lobby, there's an area called economic lobbying, economic diplomacy. We have excellent experts in the field of economic diplomacy, here's distinguished professor Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, who used to be a representative and professor at the Department, so which generations of graduate students performed and learned how to lobby for her country in economic terms. I think it's simply unserious of them, their promise that their activities to generate new investments will cover, so imagine the irony they put into third place participation in all forums, fairs, investment conferences in the world. We know what their expedition to China looked like, and I ask them out of this place – and why they didn't participate in the EXPO II fair, EXPO in Turkey this year. Bosnia and Herzegovina, to our shame, did not have its own booth. How are we going to promote our products when it's more important to go, say, to China, and, say, that part of the world, we forget that part of Europe. So, under three, they put participation in significant conferences and fairs, and only somewhere on item 10, or item 11 – making promotional materials that you imagine will be written in English and German, so instead of being followed at all where we need to export, which are for our countries of challenge. Are they aware that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state, I will say this countless times, a country that, with developed agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina, throws domestic products and buys garlic from China and carrots from Greece. That's our shame, that's our shame. These materials should not be written primarily in English and German, but in languages of all countries that are economically interesting to us, and top-notch scientists, and we have knowledge from economic diplomacy in both entities, at the level of the state, in the Brcko District, should say where it is. Also, we are going back to strengthening economic diplomacy, I think it is urgent that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should again make a request from this place, appeal to the BiH presidency and the foreign ministry that all their focus is intellectually put into motion to urgently pass the Foreign Affairs Act. Because it scares me that some diplomatic representations of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not drink water from Bosnia and Herzegovina, drink water from Greece, drink water from some countries that have absolutely nothing to do with the country where the embassy is located, and we know that we have the best water in the world. So we're ashamed of what we have. We can't attract foreign investment. We have very bad marketing. I am concerned by the fact that the capacity of the Bosnian-Herzegovina diaspora that is ready to invest is not yet being used by the media to talk louder about the need for lobbying Bosnia and Herzegovina on the outside, as well as in terms of economic diplomacy, as well as those good things that happen in BH businesses and which may be called to potential investors are not often made public. I am for the freedom of the media, but I think more shows should be on TV, and believe that foreign investors are certainly looking at it, if nothing is seen by representatives of the DKP countries that are accredited in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think the blackest thing should be to represent everything about Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is a shift within Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy but we need to speak louder and more clearly about them. Personally, I think that everything they wrote in terms of their new investments in the previous period is insufficient, small and urgent must include economic scientists in the area of economic diplomacy and put a complete diplomatic and consular network on lobbying for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15471	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Bećirović. Here you go. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15472	I must say that I am now in a dilemma after all these discussions, after this report I hear and what I hear these days from members of the Presidency, the leader of the ruling majority, about what situation we are in. From what I've heard the other day, one of the members of the Bureau has said that we are in a situation that has never been better in the last 10 years, that it is the extent of foreign investment, of employment, of investors coming, of even expecting us to have an investment swing, of construction, but from what we hear here in this Parliament and from FIPA in this report we see that the situation can rarely be worse. So I don't know what else to think. And it seems to me that rarely anyone in this House can still think that we can attract foreign investment, where one member of the presidency goes to the neighbouring country and says he goes to report to his president, while another member of the presidency talks about political killings, while the leaders of political parties talk about the state mafia, and then we need to talk about the momentum in investing in infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What a swing, what an investment. What is currently happening is the maintenance of political corporations led by political party leaders, who have no interest in any real investment swing, nor in improving the lives of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we see, someone has said finely that we have improved the employment of our citizens but in Germany, because we have evicted about 80 to 100,000 citizens in the last year alone. So where are all those infrastructure projects that these leaders promise, where these high-level meetings where all these projects are being negotiated, when we see that investments, besides those ones, mean we can't reach the level last year, let alone anything else. We cannot reach the level of 2014 when we had floods catastrophicly and where, as a justification for growth, what the chairman of Zvizdić says is that we have a certain growth of 3%, where the government's documents say that this growth comes because we have had catastrophic floods and nothing has worked and that this is normal growth. What kind of investments are we talking about and investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I am pleased to hear these observations as colleagues of Rančić, colleagues of Backović, so I think it may be a mature time for us to lay a cornerstone for a new relationship with the banking system, for example. in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why don't we draw a conclusion, for example? that only, that the Council of Ministers draws up legislation to regulate the investment of deposits of state institutions, agencies, ministries only in domestic banks. You know when they'll make such a suggestion one? Never. Because they've been working for years, doing business with foreign banks, because they've created regulations that have allowed foreign banks to enter uncontrollably and therefore it's no wonder they're the biggest, best guests at foreign bank receptions from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you're not surprised by the reports that say, foreign banks, that rarely which country, there is rarely a country in the region that provides these conditions for bank operations. Well, of course, it provides when people take everything they can take and, of course, when you have in the letter intending to the International Monetary Fund again, for example, here, I will remain at the Federation of BiH, saying that they will abolish the Development Bank, the functions of the Federation of BiH Development Bank, which is crediting businesses in the Federation of BiH and will make the Federation of BiH a commercial bank with commercial rates of credit, although we all know for what purpose that bank is formed and made. And what are we talking about here? What are these forces that will lead to an investment cycle in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I am convinced, and I know that these are not the ones who are currently running Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they have led to the fact that we have only on the annual level, in the last year, four, over 4,000 people who took out of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship, I have already cited data from 80 to 100,000 people who have moved out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have a negative trend in employment, stories and fairy tales of employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina are just stories and fairy tales because it's about people leaving, who get off the desk records, and there's no employment, there's a reduction in unemployed people, but there's no employees. When you enter the structure of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you will see that more than 40% of these persons are 80 employees in the area of trade large and small, employed in services, in the field of services, in public institutions, that the number of people, persons employed in the economic, real sector is between 16% and 18% So, there are no financial resources in this country, with this authority, the way they operate and the vasal approach, meaning only that certain financial resources would be made to cover the budget gaps and continue to entangle their party personnel, there is no future and there is no recovery of Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15473	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I would look back a little on what my colleague Bećirović was saying, so in a way that I would say – this is how opposition parties do. It's just a mahale story, so mostly this is all he said, and on the other hand, it's good for them to do this when they're at the gatherings or TV cameras somewhere saying, you know, they're leaving young people, we don't have that, we don't have this. So first it's not the agenda point, the point is the FIPA report, but it's gone far. But what they're not saying is that it's a lie that Bosnia and Herzegovina never, ever, I wish I wasn't right right now, right now, will be Germany. So, if Germany needs a young workforce, or Switzerland, what are we going to do with some measures, I don't know which one, this country gets there. I'd like it to be that way. We, of course, need to create one social climate, one sensitivity, one social position of people here better than it is now and look and work on it. But let's talk -- you see, we've got people coming to us, so we're gonna go to Germany, we're gonna go to Germany because we can't reach it, we can't reach Switzerland and Austria. And I don't know, I don't know what the stories are, so I'd like to see what the measures are for the gentlemen to tell you and we'll take those measures, so here we are, signing to be Germany in 10 years. Here, let me see that power that will come... We need to work to make this a country acceptable, socially sensitive, that people stay in it, that there must be more emotional attachments for it than it is now, and that we comfort them with that we, and that some incompetents now, or some fellows tomorrow will make such a state to keep it because it won't go to Germany because there's no better job there, but these are stories for little children. So, once in a while, don't use those floscules, so, and those flat-rate reviews and the data you're prone to present. Of course, it's good for you, but the progress there is, FIPA, I think the FIPAs should also help, with someone I'd agree with... was, because the law doesn't set it right. Some don't give her, not some, many don't give her eyes, they don't know what they're doing, they don't give her information, they don't give her information about themselves, about their jobs. How will people... how, then, do I know? Now, whether I'm right or wrong, I think you should do something... in law and give FIPAs a better position, that she can do better, if nothing makes those who invest in small businesses of various government and NGOs have a duty to report at least to FIPA what they're doing. Otherwise, they have some money, they invest, they work, the Chamber of Commerce, FIPA was kicked out of it. I think it's our fault, I would agree with Mr. Backović or I don't know who else was talking about it. But here, we'll see what happens next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15475	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Damir Bećirović. Here you go. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15476	I'm sorry for the second time, I know which guesting you refer to, but for the second time you call the BiH Statistics Agency Eurostat's data mahal data. It is your problem that you sit in the BiH Parliament and then call the data of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina mahalski.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15477	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, MP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15478	First, I am pleased that Mr. Lovrinović publicly expressed his concern over the departure of young people from any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's a mahale story, so you have to document it to Mr. Lovrinović. If it wasn't a mahale story, I'd only give you two cases. The first was that I addressed all the ministers and ministers of education to provide me with information as much as in the school year 2015-2016 was requested to print, so that parents... their children... and leave Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of all the ministries, I got an answer except for those ministries headed by one of the HDZ. So, it's one policy that nothing is notified, that these data is transparently shared with the public and that this is how one of the present can be called to be a mahal or a coffee shop story. And the other thing, how can we keep our citizens and citizens, especially young people not to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, is exactly what I, Mr. Lovrinović, had today, which should primarily concern the SDA and HDZ, not to tell you more HDZ than the SDA, is that you stop moving out of Canton 10 so that, with your neighbouring country or country of origin, you don't know whether your neighbouring Republic of Croatia is, at last, revising the contract so that what Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to collect for its hydroaccumulation and not to get the misery, direct that money and money into development projects, into employment, and then these young people won't, you know none of the grace of the belly for bread in some Germany, Switzerland, nor the point of being us as Švicarka. We're not even in the ranks of neighboring countries. So, for seven years, we have lag behind Montenegro on the road to the EU, not to mention Serbia and Croatia, which is less triple than Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now you're saying that here we need to identify with Germany and Switzerland. So, when you're already calling for a mahal or a coffee shop, you have strong arguments to defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15479	Thank you. We have a report from FIPA director Gordan Milinić, who wants to comment on it. I'm closing the debate, and please have five minutes as well as the MPs, be specific about the presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15480	Ladies and gentlemen. I'll try to answer some of these questions. The report refers to 2015, I've been in FIPA since 2016. I can tell you that, upon my arrival in FIPA, I have found a team of 82 capable people who speak foreign languages, who are trained to carry out all the propaganda activities properly, i.e. promoting the investment potential of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But as far as FIPA itself was concerned, she was in a terribly bad material situation, and people were missing a little organization, and I tried to get it all right. Someone here mentioned that we should print brochures in all of the world's languages. I can tell you when I came into the budget I found money for this year, scheduled printing 200 brochures, 200 brochures. I protested the Council of Ministers for this because I introduced the rule that we hold between three and six meetings daily with potential investors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I told our finance minister – Ministers, so we can spend only one brochure every other day, and we hold between three and six meetings daily. I also found that the field offices in Banja Luka and Mostar were left without a car, because some regulation that had been passed by the Council of Ministers took those vehicles away. And I also asked the finance minister, when my representative from Mostar calls me and says – I have a foreign investor, I should take him to Ljubusko or Trebinje, I can only tell him – take his hand and take him on foot. So, the funds, and I called immediately for the foreign trade minister in FIPA, who also found that FIPA has pay-only funds, and that's all. I simply said that I did not want people who would sit at tables and receive salaries, we should take off in the world and wherever we can find foreign investors and bring them to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we made a significant shift this year, and we immediately hired all the diplomatic-consular representations that are located in Sarajevo. We got support from all the ambassadors and all the embassies and made plans with them what and how to do this year. We managed for the first time to get investors from Japan, because the ambassador promised it and made it happen. In October, we had 15 companies from Japan interested in investing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also had our first investment agreements from Brazil, it's the first time we've talked about it. So in one general situation in the first quarter, we were able to make a transfer of investments compared to last year more than double, 114%. And then we got one political situation that's really discouraged us a lot, you know, it's not easy when an investor comes and the first question comes to me – Mr. Director, what's going on in your country, is there going to be a war here, what is this, what is it, would you invest your money in my position in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I continued to calm down the situation here and say that it was a pre-election campaign, that after the election, everything would be different, that there would be no mention of war, no similar situation, and I tried at all costs to keep those investors. And they're still with us about our relationship and we're holding periodic meetings with them, they're coming. A lot of what we do stays in the domain of business secrets. We have, here as MPs, I can tell you that we have a Korean firm named Jura“ which has 5,000 workers in Serbia and who wants to expand its business in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've taken them to five locations so far and negotiated with them about expanding their business, but they don't want to go public. They say – please keep this for our competition, this is a business secret. We have a lot of those companies FIPA works with, especially from Germany, who want to keep a business secret and who don't want to go public. So the period after the first quarter is quite problematic, all summer and this period until the election with investors has not had much concrete results. We had a few investments of 10 million, we had the Kineza that we brought in, which, to tell you the truth, are not the only ones asking about the political situation but they want to work, we brought the Kineza into the thermal power plant Bugojno, to this project worth about a billion and 400 million. Talks are under way with the Federation's Elektroprivred and the Federation government. We also have Kineza investors for the Congon thermal power plant near Tomislavgrad. It's also a big project... 83
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15481	Director, I have to warn you because of the weather, this is the story of the 2015 Report, so thank you. If you have anything on that report, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15482	Well, I should still point out, someone said investors didn't want to reinvest, 73% of investors said they wanted to reinvest. I just want to say, since this is mentioned about diplomatic and consular representations, the FIPA's task is to coordinate the Foreign Ministry, and the Foreign Trade Ministry and the Foreign Trade Chamber. We started training economic diplomats, that's one of the results, we had the first part of the training, and after that training about 15 trained economic diplomats will be sent to 15 destinations that we estimate in the world that we need. It was one of my remarks and the foreign minister. I ask him every month for an embassy to send for a potential investor, I say to a potential investor who will come for talks in Sarajevo, let 10% of them invest it is a situation that is very favourable to Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the conditions of investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, FIPA has drawn up an analysis and proposed 41 measures to be implemented by all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These recommendations were adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers, recommendations were sent to all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to list all the obstacles, starting with building permits and connections, and work permits and, someone mentioned, VAT numbers that in some cases take away 36 days. So, we promise to the investor when he comes to FIPA full support, that he will not be lonely, that we will follow him from the first day of his investment and that all the obstacles that appear before him will be removed together with the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we stick to it strictly and try to keep every investor and help him in his activities. Since someone also mentioned the Central Bank's data, we really agree that the Central Bank's data is rather delayed and that it's not concrete. And recently, we've also decided on the FIPA Management Board that we're trying to fight to get real and accurate data in the Central Bank and on time. And there's a lot of mention of the Institute of Business Secrets, but we'll try to get as much information as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15483	Thank you. We're going to the next item on the agenda, Ad. 13. Material of the BiH Directorate for European Integrations: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Report on the implementation of the measures set out in the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, DIO A – Obligations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, (c) Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, DIO B – Obligations of the entity institution, Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and Canton, 84 d) Progress report on the implementation of the Action Plan for Implementation of the Reform Agenda for the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina Council, issue: 01-50-1853-1/15, of 21.09.2016. (realisation of parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 28.10.2015); The components of this material are various reports that you received with the material. I have to consult now, do we have to interrupt now? _________(?) We will.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15487	Thank you. I'll try to be as fast as I can. As you have read, we have considered it on the Committee, as president of this Committee, this information under one item of the agenda and today here on the agenda, and it was sitting with us. However, I got up because of my colleagues, and we had a little problem with the Committee, actually explaining, this is about three documents in fact. The first is, therefore, the information that you received from the conclusion, if you remember, that we owe every three months to the Council of Ministers to report us, let's just say conditionally the first point. The second is therefore, as you have today received this Opinion on 85 progress, so based on this opinion is a real action plan, so this is this Action Plan is the second point of consideration and its implementation. And the third is our Agenda and Action Plan and Information on the current state of implementation of the Action Plan. So it's actually three documents, but that's how you from the College sent it to us and it's put it at one point, it's actually a question of whether it can be under the same point of the agenda, but that's why we've learned from the here conclusions that apply to, we can say so, to all three of these, all three of these materials and these conclusions mostly reflect the debate on our Committee. It's not going to be a conclusion, but I suggest to the College and the Council of Ministers that the next time this is considered to be either a special point or a special session. It is a substance that is mostly touched, you saw in that first information, the one about the agenda that has similar findings, opinions, deadlines, etc., so sometimes it can be a little confusing, but basically those conclusions reflect the debate, I think they satisfy what we found in the material. And here's a proposal for one to make sure that this is anything in the future, if at least special points of the agenda come this way, they might as well be at separate sessions. I'm not going to suggest a conclusion, I don't think there's any need, but here's what you're going to take into account. And I suggest you accept this, here's information.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15488	Okay, thank you. There are different opinions about the name of this point, whether to be together or to be separated. Last time, a proposal came from the European Integration Commission to formulate it this way. I agree that the next time should be separated by a), b, c, d) and how that point is already going. Next, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I will also try very briefly to refer to the conclusions of the Commission dealing with this material. As you can see in front of you and those who have read have been able to see that the material is very large and that it contains a large number of information, but also data on what has been done so far, or what has not been done. And what I came to the most is to point out what it is, to say both prominently and in the Commission's conclusions, and this is a common finding, after a discussion was carried out on the Commission, that institutions and all those who were in charge of implementing certain measures, that is to say, to do their part of the work reportedly, according to the reports provided by the European Integration Directorate, that a large number of these activities were not done, and for those who were written that they were in progress can be seen from the table view that the deadline for these activities was long ago, let's say in February, in March of this year. Here, today we have also received a report for 2016 and it is evident that after that, consideration of this report will be made of a new package of obligations and duties to be implemented and to be done, so I would stress, therefore, just to say that we are on the Commission, so where were the representatives of the Directorate for European Integration on our issue – why so slow things are going on and why so slow activities are being said – because these institutions themselves give a deadline to carry out these activities. And now they're giving themselves a deadline, and if no one asks them in the meantime, and they don't call, and it doesn't indicate that it's too slow, it means that they can go on and on until someone remembers and says why it's so slow and why it's so inert. So I think these conclusions are on that background in front of the Commission. I expect that today the House will adopt these conclusions, and then, of course, at certain intervals and in the next period of this activity, you will be monitored. 86 And I will now say something that may refer to the previous point of today's agenda, I don't need it, no matter how bad things went or how bad things were working on some of the tasks and obligations in this country, especially when it comes to European integration, and here's the foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if the situation is and if things are bad we can't close our eyes in front of it and we can't put our heads in the sand and say -- well, now the opposition is saying that it's bad because everything is bad for them. It's not true, let someone point out that things aren't really going in the right direction as I think there's a lot of things that could have been done by now, but it hasn't been done. And what would be good for some next report to be done, which was also requested by the Commission, is that these unworked activities that were not carried out are comparatively, so let's see who didn't do what part of the job and what were the reasons why it wasn't done. Because here is an announcement that in December a questionnaire will be asked which will contain some, say, three or over three thousand questions, if things are going at such a pace as we have seen in these materials and these reports, then of course the question is asked whether in six months, as the representatives of the Directorate for European Integration said, will we really be able to answer these questions in six months, to deliver them to whoever has to deal with them and to evaluate them, to evaluate these answers, because the statement of the Director for European Integrations on the Commission was that he expects when we provide answers to these, say, three thousand questions, that the practice to deliver even between 200 or 300 additional questions for clarification, so a certain set of questions to be answered? So, our appeal from the Commission is that there must be a more up-to-date monitoring of these duties and duties, and above all there is an invitation from the Council of Ministers to work on it and to follow it and to report to this Parliament, of course the Directorate as their own, as an institution, which is entrusted to the Council of Ministers and that things are being updated a little faster, because you will admit that they are not all doing exactly the same pace in this country when we talk about the level of entity, Brcko District, Canton and, of course, the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Practice has shown, and the materials that we've got don't all work with the same intensity and don't all work the same way. The Republika Srpska government, when it fulfils its duties and obligations on Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path, is then expected that others in this country are working in sync with the same pace and same dynamics. So it can give some good result, everything else will be on hold and, let me say, waste of time and energy. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15490	Thank you. Discussion, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I can say on behalf of the SBB Club that we will support this report. Of course, the European Integration Directorate is not the only one responsible for all the processes that we are obliged to implement in the Euro-Atlantic process, or rather to separate European and Atlantic integration, as dissonant tones are heard in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that, as I would say, the Directorate for European Integration is one notification that, if all other institutions and all other levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing well and are doing well, the Directorate for European Integration will also work. Therefore, much greater responsibility is at all institutions and all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina than at the Directorate for European Integration. That's why I think it would be, I'm sorry that Mr Vigemark came here and handed the College of Parliament a report, and that's the question that needs to be answered by 87, and let's say we couldn't be present or that, since we had a session of Parliament, it couldn't have been done anyway, in a way, as well as the solemn part of this session, that Mr Vigemark would do it together with us present today at this session. I don't believe that he asked exclusively to be a college, but simply it's a failure, it wasn't thought about it. But here, anyway, but I really do if I can appeal to, I don't know how to say it, I don't know if we can even appeal, I don't know if we can make any decisions, but that all the activities related to the EU's convergence process are not just about those issues and those answers that will be given, but that they are truly working to speed up the process and to solve the problems that are recorded in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It takes a lot more will, a lot more energy, a lot more knowledge than objectively these institutions have at all these levels to respond to these tasks. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15492	Thank you. So, Vigemark asked for a meeting with the Kolegija, it was this same debate and last time, did it have to be done in Parliament? The document has not been translated yet, meaning, and the very story of Vigemark doing this here in Parliament has last time opened the dilemma of whether the EU ambassador here should address Parliament from the level of ambassadors, because it is not very common. Ambassador Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15493	If there is something as important to you as the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then you must be dedicated directly to all levels with clear provisions of scope, time and supervision. It is my impression, I am taking part in the work of the Commission for European Integration, that Parliament is on the verge of that current. That's not good. We leave a lot out of the responsibility that lies ahead. The institution of the Directorate is an excellent service, trained to do service jobs and we need such, however political responsibility for the processes standing before Parliament as a legislator of the state must have, among other things, a plan for Parliament's activities on the European path, exactly what, how, in what way. We are losing time, among other things, to train something that we have chosen to put the service in Parliament for the parliamentary needs of European integration on its feet and it works, to lose that time, to be wise. Are we even committed to this path or formalizing it? And second, do we have spare time that we can make up for if we lose this? I appeal and demand that Parliament discuss this in a special way. In our documents that stand, the documents of this Parliament, the documents of the Joint Commission on European Integration, there are precise definitions that, among other things, according to the Rules of Procedure, indicate that we have an appropriate control role. What's the control role? We've come to a conclusion, we've received knowledge. It is not what we have to stay on, it is too important and important for the citizens of this country European way, that perspective must be opened up to practical moves. We spoke on the Commission a lot about it, what is called persuasion of citizens that this path is dynamic, that it is implemented as planned and that our intentions are achieved. There's a lot left cloudy and... growing in people. We have a duty to open up the perspective. Parliament is a representative of the citizens, and that is why I advocate that we define our deadlines and tasks on this road in Parliament. I believe that's necessary. Thank you. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15494	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15495	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's really one and the other colleagues who spoke before me most of this idea I wanted to say has already been said. So Parliament, in this essential sense, needs to regain capacity because Parliament needs to fight for that kind of capacity to promote, guide and be an engine, this, these processes. It is true that not all of them are doing the same, is right, so you have some levels of government that are very effective at, in fulfilling your obligations, you have many others, which are trom and slow, but the overall process in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in the dynamics in which we should see it and in which the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina would like to see it. There is a lot, as I would say, of some initiatives, of desire, of interest in doing something in this sense, but there is still no systematic, there is no key political will to make this system approach and that we all, I would say, put it politically in our action and that it can feel that it gives a certain kind of result. One of the activities that I've been doing lately as an MP and I've been informing, this, all of us here, is in some way making one bigger, I'd say, over-the-counter bloc, groups of people who really want to deal with these issues, because we see, today through several of these previous discussions, we speak the same language, it's just important that in that sense we have this one platform in which, apart from being elected representatives at all levels, we're going to discover the possibility of being involved in this process in the broadest sense of society, so civil society, NGOs, media, academic community. Because it's true that, especially lately, how people don't feel specifically... they don't feel the concrete benefit of this, from this great story of European integration, it starts in some way, that some kind of Euroscepticism is born in them too, so people say – well, that's not what we were hoping for, that's not what we expected. People want to see through this, through ours, our story and the closerness of the EU more concretely, that they have more rule of law, that they have more work, that they have better status, that they live better. So in this sense, we need to find a way to involve these people, therefore, in all of society, in all of these processes. And here, I'm, that one, I've already mentioned that, in some ways, here's the birth and the platform in which we're going to have a kind of extra-biased activity in which we're going to have the opportunity to involve all those who truly want to work on these issues and to open up the possibility that those who know these processes get a platform where they're going to be able to come and offer it in one place their knowledge, capacities, experience. Let's say these are the representatives of these important NGOs, civil society, academic community, etc. And what I would suggest here as a conclusion, you know that at the beginning of this term, I went far, so I asked for information to be made at every session of Parliament as far as we are, what we did between the two sessions. In the end, we have one piece of information every three months. So, I would support this initiative, that is, this proposal that Col. Škaljić spoke about, that at least now at the beginning, let's say, in 2017, at the first session that we will have in 2017, install a special item of the agenda, if we do not already have a special session, to discuss how we will make a work programme for meeting the conditions on the European path and what is the role of Parliament. So, each of us takes on that kind of responsibility, and it's actually a hodogram, that we stick to it, and that, in the end, if not half a year, at least at the end of 2017, we'll see where we are, what we are, who's what we should do, what things should be 89 especially affirmed. So here's the conclusion, if I have to write it down, but I think it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15496	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15497	Correction of the wrong allegation, I have no other way, so I've seen today this one document called an informal group, or I think. _________(?) It's a block to Europe. Yes, well, an informal group called the Block for Europe. Now, uh, I'd really like to talk about it here. So we have the Commission for European Integration and we see that it has problems in its work, and that it needs to be strengthened, and that it needs to be helped, and that it should be one of the most important places to decide these things. We have another group that is related to... together with the European Commission, we have, so on our hands is the Directorate for European Integration and now Mr. Šepić, I would like, since two times this new group has been mentioned, who are these people, how are they, is that, what is the system of decision-making, what are they explicit dealing with, how, this is an informal group... can approach whoever they want? And it's very interesting we have the unused existing capacities that we've formed for this, and we're forming new groups. Let's see, let's not get dirty anyway, we haven't systemized jobs on this one yet. It's good to have the higher bodies that treat certain matter, but you shouldn't have too much to be a distraction to each other. I would really ask you to say a few words about it, team before I see that you are the leader of that informal group... (Laughter in the O.R.)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15500	Thank you. Since we are no longer logged in, we move to the next item of the agenda, __________(?) 90 [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15502	Let's move on...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15503	Well, nothing, you see it's informal, it's no institutional matter, so it's up to Mr. Šepić whether to answer or not, it's not, so he doesn't have any institutional weight. Point 14, [[Common discussion]] May I have your attention, please? Ad. 14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 30.06.2016, Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-2639/16, 14.10.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15508	The Honorable Chairman. Since, here we rarely discuss these points, I don't have anything today, either, but I have on this, this 16-point point, meaning – Giving consent to the development of competitiveness in rural areas, especially when we had a few questions about withdrawing funds from IPA funds today. I don't know what to call this work, if this is okay, it's not right, at what stage. Look, we give today's consent to raise loans for rural development, and we need to adopt a few strategies and then allow for funds or applying to IPA funds where we lose between 15 and 20 million marks for rural development and agriculture each year. I don't know what our... really this process of ours would call, I understand all that and words, there will be plenty of things about transfer of jurisdiction, but simply this, at least, doesn't make sense, we're raising loans for something that we can get free just to respect certain regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15509	Thank you. If there is, we don't have any further applications for discussion. This closes the session, and in 15 minutes we'll approach the vote. [[Common discussion]] In 15 minutes, we'll approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15512	Just a short word about the fifth point. I have one suggestion on the fifth point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15513	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15514	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Just give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15515	We're gonna take this down.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15516	Don't, don't crash... the amendment phase again, let's get it back to the amendment phase again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15517	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15518	Okay, never mind. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-09-0.u15519	All right, let's get to point five. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2091/16, from 02/08/2016 (second reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading. For 5, against 31, abstention 3. So there is no general majority, the bill was not adopted in the second reading. Point 6. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2194/16, from 05/08/2016 (second reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading. For 28, against six, abstentions five. There is an entity and general majority, we passed the bill. Point 7. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Administration Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2275/16, since 26/08 (second reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading. For 26, v. 1, abstention 12. There's a general and entity majority, and we passed the bill. We're going to point 8. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on international and inter-entity road transport – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2509/16, since 28/09/2016 (first reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. For 26, v. 5, abstention 8. There's a general and entity majority, and we passed the bill in the first reading. Point 9. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Compensation in Court and Prosecutoral Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2617/16, since 11.10.2016 (first reading), a shortened procedure. We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. For 21, v. 9, abstention 9. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Are we going straight to the second round of voting? We're going to the second round of voting. For 22, v. 9, abstention 8. There is a general and entity majority, passed the Law in the first reading. Point 11. – Report – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, material number: 01,01/4-16-1-2008/16, since 25.07.2016. We're voting for adoption of the report. 94 For 33, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are now voting on the adoption of a proposal by MP Nikola Lovrinović. For 28, against six, abstentions five. There is a general and entity majority, the conclusion is adopted. [[Common discussion]] Is there a request for a repeat? No, I don't. Point 12. – Information on foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 and Report on activities of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01-50-1-15-24/16, since 16.09.2016. (Realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 24th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 03.02.) 2016). We are voting on receiving information and reports. For 20, against 12, abstention 7. There's a general and entity majority, we've adopted information and a report, or we've received knowledge. Point 13. – Material of the Directorate for European Integrations of BiH: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Report on the implementation of the measures set out in the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the 2015 Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina, DIO A – Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, (c) Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, DIO B – Obligations of the entity institution, the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and the Canton, (d) Progress report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda for the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina Council, issue: 01-50-1853-1/15, of 21.09.2016. (Realisation of parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 28.10.2015). We are voting on receiving information and reports. For 27, against 2 abstentions 10. There's a general and entity majority, we've adopted the Information, that is, we've received information and reports. We are now voting on the adoption of a proposal for the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration. For 29, v. 1, abstention 9. There is a general and entity majority, and we adopted a proposal for the Commission's conclusion. 95 We are going to vote on the adoption of the proposal of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić, who reads: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the dom Kolegijum to organise a special session or agenda dedicated to the work plan of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in 2017 on the theme "The role of the Parliamentary Assembly in meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path". So we're voting on the proposal for a conclusion. For 17, against 13, abstention nine. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go to the second round of voting? We're going to the second round of voting. For 11, versus 14, abstention 14. There is no general majority, no conclusion accepted. Let's go to point 14. – Information on the state of public responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 30.06.2016, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01.02-16-1-2639/16, since 14.10.2016. We're voting on receiving information. Twenty-six against three abstentions. There's a general and entity majority, we've received information. Point 15. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of the two homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 18.03.2016). We vote on the appointment of Nikola Lovrinović, Damir Arnaut and Đorđ Krčmar to the Joint Commission. For 22, v. 7, abstention 10. There is a general and entity majority, meaning that we have appointed a Joint Commission, or representatives from the House of Representatives. We are now voting on a proposal to make a statement on points 16 to 24 in the package. For 31, v. 5, abstention 3. There's a general and entity majority, so we're voting on points 16 to 24 in the package. So now we're voting on points 16 to 24. – Giving consent to ratification of agreements and amendments to agreements. Thirty-three, versus one, abstention five. There's a general and entity majority, we've adopted points 16 to 24. I hereby conclude the 37th session and note that the next session is November 30th. Thank you. Session completed at 6:40 p.m.
