ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15896	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 39th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by Mr. Nikola Špirić and Đorđo Krčmar, and the delay was announced by Mrs. Monika Tomić and Mr. Željko Komšić. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers has sent a notice that he is unable to attend today's House session for an earlier planned trip. The absence was also justified by Mr Igor Crnadak and Josip Grubeša, so ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers. According to the Service, 34 representatives attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Before we begin my work, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Mr. Mladen Bosić, so far the chairman of the House of Representatives, for the successful eight-month leadership of this House. As indicated in your call for today's session, and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in that order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Mrs. Pandurević is not present in the O.R., she will be able to ask her questions, I have information, so come to the session, and we will be able to allow her to ask her questions. And now I give my word to the MP, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15897	I thank the chairman. So my question has been put in business and announced by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić. The word equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina must never be a word without content. The issue concerns why the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet regulated or adopted an agreement with the Islamic Community. It has already been done with the Serbian Orthodox Church, we know that the issue is regulated when it comes to the Catholic Church. That's why I want to ask the prime minister – What's the problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina getting such a contract with the 2 Islamic communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who's causing problems on that road? I would like to say that this Treaty, the basic Treaty already adopted by the Council of Ministers more than a year ago, was based on the European Convention on Human Rights, on the Constitution of BiH, on the 2004 Law that regulates the issue of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, so on all those acts that we must respect in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I expect, here is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which unfortunately does not exist, to answer that question. If he's not here, I'll answer for a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15898	Thank you very much, Mr. Bećirović. In the opening part of the session, I informed you that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is absent, that he is on the official road, so today he is in Brussels to sign the Protocol with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and therefore will not be able to participate in the work of today's House of Representatives session. So I've informed you about it, but from the Council of Ministers I have a signal that the answer to the question is prepared. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, the response will be given by the Minister of Human Rights, Mrs Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15899	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the House of Representatives. Here, let me answer the question asked by the esteemed Mr Bećirović. It is already known, as it has been said, that our country has concluded international agreements, the basic Treaty between the Holy See and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Additional Protocol on the basis of this Treaty in 2007, and the basic Treaty between the Serbian Orthodox Church and Bosnia and Herzegovina 2008, according to the procedure prescribed by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. The BiH presidency's initiative and the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers at the 141st session, held on 12 January 2011, set out an identical procedure for the conclusion of this Treaty and with the Islamic Community, which led negotiations to conclude the contract. Negotiating activities of the contract management team(?) With the Islamic Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was true, with a major delay in the making of the contract, but it was updated and completed in 2015. The BiH Council of Ministers set up a proposal for a contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the 25th session, held on 29 September 2015, and adopted a report by the negotiating team. The text of the proposal for a basic contract was delivered to the BiH presidency on 22.10.2015 for further action. On 23 March 2016, this material was included in the 22nd session of the BiH presidency, but it was withdrawn for further alignment. According to latest information, since yesterday from the BiH presidency, the alignment is still under way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15900	I thank the Minister of Human Rights, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. The comment has Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15901	The Minister presented a series of events and there is nothing to object to, but I would like to show extreme dissatisfaction with the situation in this area, and the fact that this is still at an agreement in the Presidency can do so indefinitely. It is obvious that we have one 3 situations in which one nation is denied in Bosnia and Herzegovina and nations, and language, and religion and states. There are people, and above all from SNSD by name and last name, who in the highest functions in the Republika Srpska entity no longer mention Bošnjak but use the term Muslims. The goal is to bring down an entire nation into the religious group. In terms of religious rights, here we see that the Islamic Community cannot exercise the rights that other two religious communities can, in terms of language, deny the language, not to say how much the state denies. When you deny someone faith and nation and language and state It is a preparation for a new evil in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Employee is warned on time]] Responsible people have to say it publicly, they have to recognize it, and on these facts they can't. to keep neither domestic nor international public. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15902	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15903	I thank the chairman. I'm asking the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations about the implementation of commitments from the Reform Agenda. How are both ministers present and I expect the answer, and the question is – What is done, and what activities are carried out at the state and entity level to implement commitments from the Reform Agenda to reduce direct taxes burdening salaries, taxes and wages, to reduce labour costs, improve the investment environment and increase employment in the formal sector? I will briefly explain the question, and for reasons I will link the same to the parts of the Reform Agenda that I want to highlight. Under point 1. The reform agenda stressed that the Council of Ministers, and the governments of the entity and Brcko District and Canton recognise the urgent need to launch the recovery and modernisation process in order to strengthen sustainable, efficient, social, fair and stable economic growth and job creation. Point 2 states that the Reform Agenda sets out the main plans of the Council of Ministers, the government of entities, the Brcko District and the canton for socio-economic and related reforms in their mandate. Point 4. The reform agendas note that it is in line with the Economic Reform Programme as a fundamental element to encourage comprehensive structural reforms in order to maintain macroeconomic stability and improve growth and competitiveness, and Tačka 5 is determined that the implementation of the Reform Agenda will start without delay. These are parts of the Reform Agenda that commit all levels of government to launch reforms to improve competitiveness and economic development. In the third significant area of the Reform Agenda titled Labour Market, all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina have committed to significantly reducing social protection contributions to reduce labour costs to help attract investors. [[Employee is warned on time]] As we are on half of the planned time period for the implementation of the Reform Agenda, a large number of significant investors and employers are interested – what
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15904	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15905	and whether the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing something 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15906	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15907	on tax cuts and contributions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15908	Thank you very much. Time's up 20 seconds. I will interrupt in this way anyone who runs out of time like this, so we must respect the Rules of Procedure. The answer will be given by the finance minister at the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15909	The president, the deputy, the distinguished MPs, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I will be very brief on the question of the honourable representative, Mr. Emrić. It is informative that all levels of government have adopted their reform agendas in accordance with constitutional and legal competences. The issue of direct taxes or entity competences so that activities related to this matter are contained in their reform agendas. When it comes to tax cuts and salary contributions, I can inform you that we at the state level are applying entity regulations that regulate this matter, so that entities are responsible for this as well. However, I am also sharing information with you, at the final session of the Fiscal Council held with IMF representatives about this area, the following has been observed. In order to improve the environment for job creation, measures have been taken to reduce the tax burden on labour in such a way as to harmonise the rules between the two entities. The Federation of BiH government has already adopted amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Law on Contributions, which aim to reduce the contribution by 33% in a way that will ensure neutral impact on the deficit. Also in Republika Srpska, in the final phase, the adoption of amendments to the Income Tax Act that would harmonize the provisions of the law with the federal regulations governing the area, thereby reducing the burdens of employees. A special compensation for protection against natural and other accidents has been abolished in the Federation of BiH, while in Republika Srpska, a suspension of the contribution to solidarity is expected in January 2017. Since these really are entity-level issues, we will bring together the answer and send it in writing to a respected representative after obtaining information about the current situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15910	I thank the ministers. Commentary, distinguished representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15911	I thank the Minister for his reply. And, here, let me briefly say that I followed this part at Federation level, but these amendments to the Law on Contributions are short-term. They were adopted for a period of 12 months and only for certain industries, i.e. for the calculation of salaries on employees in coal mines, textile, leather and shoe industries and low 5 accumulation activities of traditional esnaf trades, which, in my view, is not a comprehensive structural reform. Of course, here, as the minister said, we will also get more detailed information from the entities that this part is done in accordance with the Reform Agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15912	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15913	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but since I see that this time the ministers are answering questions if there are no specific questions, my question is about the intentions of the Council of Ministers on what they intend to take into account the recommendations of the review report in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, first question – What is it that the Council of Ministers intends to do at all to increase financial discipline in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular, which measures are planned to implement in order to increase financial discipline and reduce the number of recommendations for audits in institutions? And when will the Council of Ministers analyse current financial reports and impact review reports and implement the recommendations that the review makes each year? Without it, there is no point in all this work done by the Office for Audit and the competent parliamentary commission itself, unless the Council of Ministers makes some concrete measures to reduce the number of measures, not to increase each year. So I think there's someone here who can answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15914	Thank you very much. The issue was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who will give this answer or are we going to leave it for the next session? So, as far as I can see, we'll leave this for the next session when the chairman of the Council of Ministers is there, because I don't see that an agreement has been reached or made to answer the parliamentary question by the present members of the Council of Ministers of BiH. We're moving on, Mr. Mirsad Mešić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Secretary of Defense. The reasons why I ask this question lie in the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, has not developed its force of protection and rescue in the case of natural disasters, technical and other major disasters, as well as the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Air Force are the most efficient system that initially provides the necessary transport and solves major problems of protection and rescue. So, the question is: Is the exact information I received from the Armed Forces that in the Department of Defence's budget you didn't plan any maintenance money, or a remont of aircraft called helicopters, and is it accurate that one of the basic components of training in the Armed Forces, actually the Air Force, which is called the pilot's inflow is shrinking by 25%? 6
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15916	Thank you. The word has been made by the defence minister at the BiH Council of Ministers, Ms Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15917	I thank you and welcome you to the honourable MPs. As far as planning is concerned, we didn't plan a single dollar, of course, but we planned 1,455,000 KM. And when it comes to the means for planned annual... armed forces helicopters and air force brigades and anti-aircraft defenses are being planned at the same level as it was this year. So, planning is done on the basis of available aircraft resources, means the operation of the aircraft but also GM amounts of jet fuel. As far as jet fuel is concerned, we have enough, and as far as the aircraft is concerned, the operation is, in some ways, questionable, but I am convinced that a tender will be completed soon as the two helicopters are remounted. We planned, and as you know, at least I publicly presented the fact that the Council of Ministers, but also the Presidency, supported the proposal to modernise the Armed Forces which implies procurement, among other things, and new aircraft. On the other hand... among other things, the law defines one of the obligations for the Armed Forces to respond to natural disasters and disasters, but it may also be time to launch an initiative in this House to regulate and that the Ministry of Security would indeed be a coordinating body when it comes to the response to natural disasters and accidents. And I think that, and I thank you for your commendation, because indeed the armed forces of the first act, and although they should act legally when all capacities are exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15918	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Mešić has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15919	Well, I'm not a lady minister satisfied with the answer for the simple reason I assume you're also familiar with that of all the helicopter units at the moment are working, I think, just two. How little, as little as that is enough, as insufficient as that is, you must really, together with your associates, answer these questions. What is alarming is that the maintenance of the helicopter, the training of the pilot, that the status of a pilot who is very endangered in the next period of some unencumbered activities in terms of the abolition of their add-on will do everything possible to ensure that the armed, or the kind of armed forces called the Air Force completely and completely disappears. At the same time, of course, you say in new units, unfortunately, a document called Defence Review and new units are scheduled for a new unit that is in the south of the country. And not to prejudge the situation now, I invite you, Madam Minister, to take this issue seriously because we are the Social Democratic Party's Club of Members Consider starting your call from a position if these things are not resolved in due course. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15920	Thank you very much. 7 The word has a representative, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present in the hall. My question is to the Justice Department. Since, here, we have at the beginning of the session an apology that the minister is not at the session today, I will not detail this issue. So it's my question when it comes to war crimes and cases in the Court, the structure of theirs, the national structure of the verdicts, etc., that I don't read here now, that I don't waste time, I don't need a comment, I'm going to leave this question for the session, I think somewhere behind the new year, where we're going to be able to ask the ministers questions, and then I'm going to ask that. So there's no need to set up today when there's no one to answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15922	Thank you very much. The word has a representative, Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15923	Thank you very much. My question is the same as the Minister of Justice – What is the total number of pending cases in all courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina over 5, 10 and 14 years old? In the last session, we had this data on the reduction in the number of cases older than 14, 10 and 5 years by 97 and 98%, respectively, but compared to the period from 2010, when they had one program when they started solving these older cases. That's what I asked during the discussion, but I didn't get the data from the VSTV. So my question is precise – what is the absolute number, not relatively and percentageally compared to 2010, what is the absolute number of pending cases older than 14, 10 years, and 5 years in all courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15924	Thank you very much. Do we have a prepared reply from the Council of Ministers or will we wait for the Minister of Justice for the next session? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Mr. Rančić, then your question will be answered when the minister is present at the House of Representatives session. Now I give my word to the representative, Mr. Borislav Bojić. Is he here? He's not here. The word has a representative, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15925	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and the chairman, as well as other colleagues and colleagues in Parliament, of course and guests who are also present today. Before I ask this question, allow me just one comment, and since the honourable Minister Pendeš is present here I would visit her if I had asked one question last month which, let me say conditionally, in the largest correspondence with this 8 question asked by my colleague Mešić, and I would ask the minister if I could get a written answer to my question. As for the questions I have announced today, I have directed this issue towards Minister Jusk, or the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Given that I had insight into 16 top investment projects when it comes to infrastructure and I looked at the map which is an indicator of existing infrastructure facilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I was really very surprised, and I even pulled memories of some previous times when there were simply no diverse investments in some areas. But here we are now not going far back into the past I will still ask this question concerning the region of northeastern Bosnia, which includes the canton, Tuzla Canton as well as part of Republika Srpska. It is amazing, indeed, that no infrastructure facility, regardless of whether it was roads, railways or air traffic, is planned for the area of northeastern Bosnia, or Tuzlan canton where about 800,000 inhabitants live. I don't want to talk here about the exceptional importance in every respect of this area, the industrial, development potential of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the geostrategic position of that site, but I want to point out really one illogical fact that no infrastructure facility is planned there. 27 per cent of air traffic passengers benefit from Tuzla airport are not credit for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's due to the Hungarian company. [[Employee is warned on time]] The fact that it is a very high percentage of participation in infrastructure facilities Please, I find this question so important. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15926	Thank you very much. Time's up, thank you very much. Is anyone from the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15927	This really, the chairman, I don't ask a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15928	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15929	And I really find this incorrect. But if you think you should interrupt me...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15930	Mr. Đonlagić, you're one reasonable man, don't make a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15931	I did, and that's why I thought that... 15 more seconds of what was missing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15932	For you as well as for all the other agents. Thank you very much. Does the Council of Ministers want an answer? Mr. Saša Dalipagić, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15933	Honorable chairman, respected members of the College, MPs, ladies and gentlemen. 9 I would, before answering the honourable representativeĐonlagić a small introduction to the way in which the Transport Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina was drawn up. Namely, the strategy is based on the system from the bottom up. Namely, they first developed a strategy, uh, entities and Brcko District and all of them, those items and projects they put into their strategies we entered into the strategy, the state strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as the Federation Strategy is concerned, there were also opportunities for counties, i.e. cantons to apply their own projects. Did they, the governments of these cantons, do according to the wishes or needs of the inhabitants of those parts, is now a question for them. Now I'd like to answer the honourable representative's question. In fact, the State Strategy can tell you about road infrastructure that, for this county/canton, the following is foreseen. Building a highway A2 Oresje – Tuzla in the length of 56 km, there we have value, some indicative value of investments, about 743 million KM. Then highway A3 Tuzla – Zepce, it is a date with Corridor 5c, the same stock about 56 km long, the value of the investment is about 598 million KM. As far as rail transport is concerned, we have in our strategy from 2016 to... we have planned construction, reconstruction,... and... signalling on the railway lines Doboj – Tuzla, Brčko – Tuzla and Zvornik. The value of this investment is cca 211.5m euros. And we have 2m euros provided for in the Strategy for drawing up documentation for these reconstructions and works on rail, rail infrastructure. As far as air traffic is concerned, we have Tuzla airport and for the same reason, infrastructure procedures and technical improvements to the airport of 25m euros So, I see that my time is up, and I'm going to go for a little while more, that there are also some, and the work on modernization and the refreshing of these roads which, already existing roads. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There are the shares of Tuzla – Sarajevo, then the black spot Husino, then the shares of Zivnica – Stupari and the shares of Pelagićovo – Srebrenica and Srebrenica – Šićki brod, as well as the road Kladanj – Vlasenica. There will be some procedures such as road expansion, correction of black spots and modernisation of the stakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15934	Thank you, thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I ask the representatives and members of the Council of Ministers to form their questions, answers and comments and to have such content as may be presented in the time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we will have to amend the Rules of Procedure if we wish to behave differently, so 2 minutes for a question, 2 minutes for a response and a minute for a comment. Commentary has Mr Mirsad Đonlagić, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15935	Well, here, so I don't violate your authority and I don't disturb the work of this high house, I beg the minister, or the Ministry, to give me the full answer to my question where I've asked and the part relating to the financial dimensions of this one, this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15936	Thank you very much, Your Honor. 10 The Council of Ministers, i.e. Minister, Deputy Minister, may the Ministry prepare this reply in full and deliver in writing to the honourable representative. I give my word to the vice president, the MPs, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15937	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs, ministers and deputies, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. My question, according to the Rules of Procedure, is addressed to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and to the competent agencies acting in its composition. In fact, a number of offensive, discriminatory, sexist and inappropriate statements have recently been sent to us by the presidents of neighbouring and friendly countries, EU and NATO members, the presidents of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović-Kitarovic. This way, I do not want to go into the essence of the statement that the presidents, either in the essence of the answers that were received by Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I must express my concern about the language used and the statements made by a certain television host addressed to the presidents of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar-Grabar-Kitarević, whose statement was continued and the statements of a number of bh officials. I think that in a country that seeks European standards and membership in the community of European countries there really is no room for this kind of primitiveism that at least undermines the reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's journalism, but also the reputation of our country in the world. Unsuitable statements, which we were unfortunately able to hear, were in the most harsh way insulting both honor and fundamental human rights. This time I ask my question because of the lack of reactions of governmental, non-governmental organisations in the situation, and in... the assembly of the absence of a reaction and the Committee for Gender Equality of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is in a way and in a way, and many others who regularly react in these or similar situations. My question was addressed to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees – How did the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the competent agencies within the Ministry react to inappropriate, offensive and sexist statements, according to the presidents of the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar-Grabar-Kitarević, or what attitude do they have against these statements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15938	Thank you. The word has been given by the minister of human rights, refugees and displaced persons at the BiH Council of Ministers, Mrs Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15939	Although the question is wide-ranging, here's the answer to me, but I appreciate the esteemed representative's question. The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, whose membership is the BiH Gender Equality Agency, is not responsible for responding to statements made in electronic media. Statements that may include prejudice and stereotypes to women and men deserve public condemnation. In accordance with Article 26. The law on gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the primary responsibility of the Agency to ensure compliance of the overall legal system with gender equality standards and to direct competent authorities' institutions to implement their obligations. The ministry is the view that every public official must take responsibility for the spoken word for the reason that the spoken word has a multiple impact on those who listen, as well as on the overall public change. It is also the position of the ministry to respond to public officials, regardless of the parties they come from, to be justified, to be true, to 11 supported by facts and in no way to insult the dignity and integrity of the person who made a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15940	Thank you very much, Minister. Ma'am,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15941	I'll refrain from commenting.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15942	Kristo refrains from commenting. I give my word to the honourable representative, Mr. Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15943	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected media and others present. My question is, it's being asked to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, specifically to Mr. Minister, whom I don't see here today, but I see deputies. Given the difficult financial situation on BHRT and the need to take certain measures, what does the competent ministry do to stop negative financial and other trends, and whether the Ministry is working to amend and supplement the Law on the Public Television System of BiH with an emphasis on part of the Law that regulates the financing of the Public TV System?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15944	Thank you, Mr. Fazlić. Mr. Saša Dalipagić, deputy minister of transport and communication at the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15945	Thank you, Chairman. Since these questions came in late yesterday, before the end of hours, I, based on Article 175. Rules of Procedure, I suggest the same, same answer, because it is a very important and complex issue, to answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15946	There is certainly such a business possibility. Thank you for inviting us to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I am very pleased with that. Mr. Fazlić, do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15947	Well, I have a comment. I understand, I understand the role of Deputy Minister, this is the second time I've been answered in this way, one answer to a last question was also that 12 were not seen in the Ministry's question. I must remind myself that, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have asked a question in time and I see that most of my colleagues have so asked a question. One part of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies, respond while, unfortunately, others have little time. Here, I accept that it comes in writing, but the objective of my question was to encourage the Ministry to play a more active role in solving this problem, given that we MPs had and proposed certain legal solutions that did not get the necessary majority in this House. I therefore expect that the ministry covering this area is actively involved in solving this problem, and I expect, given this type of response, I expect a written response to be able to follow up on the activities of the Ministry of Interior in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15948	So, thank you, Mr. Fazlić. You have heard the comment of the honourable representative, please give the answer in writing, and the question certainly concerns a burning problem when it comes to the functioning of the Public TV broadcasting system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I give my word to the honourable representative, Mr. Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15949	Thank you very much. So my question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I now don't know if he has authorized anyone, whether he will have any opportunity to answer, but, therefore, the issue is about the necessity of adoption and the final adoption of a state-run integration programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the other day we received a questionnaire, for years the European Commission has persistently been telling us in its reports that we have no or minimal progress in the area of harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. I think it's been a long time to get that program. So I wanted to hear from that side today – What has been done so far, at which stage, how can we get involved, because on our side we have a lot of good, uh, ideas, especially a group of people who operate through the "Block for Europe" has very concrete ways and ideas how can help get this document as soon as possible? But here's why it's important for us to hear from the chairman of the Council of Ministers what we have to do with it, so that we can know in which way we will specifically engage.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15950	Thank you for asking. Whether from the Council of Ministers, here is the director of the Directorate for European Integration, Mr. Dilberović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, so we will deliver a reply in writing just as it requires a little, a little more elaborate, but the European Integration Directorate has made a series of key activities that are important for the integration plan, so that we can start working with the integration plan. With this in mind, in line with what the Directorate has done and the Council of Ministers has made a series of decisions that will allow us to make this integration plan one of the topics that will open very quickly, it is 13 already on the table. As far as finance is concerned, they're here, we've made some three modules according to the Council of Ministers' conclusions. The first module has already been completed, we have completed this information platform for the questionnaire, the second module is the integration plan itself and the third module is the management of the documents of the system of coordination of the European integration process. I would just like to point out that the integration plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina is in accordance with Article 70. The SSP. The 2016 report also mentions the obligation of the integration plan and question number 45 in the questionnaire and issue 82 in the chapter – Political criteria are related to the integration plan. The integration plan is not only the story of Parliament and the Council of Ministers, which is the case so far, but the integration plan is the story of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina and ultimately all parliaments. So I urge you MPs that with colleagues at lower levels of government in entities, Brcko District and cantons we also launch this story of integration plan, because the integration plan must be identical for all levels of government, otherwise it will not be functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15952	Thank you to Mr. Edin Dilberović, director of the Directorate for European Integration. We certainly expect an answer in writing. Mr. Šepić, do you need a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15953	Well, there is, then, a short one. This, Mr. Dilberović, I thank you for this answer, he also attended some of our meetings, I know how much he from his position, so as director tries to impose this story as a priority. So it is important that we here in the Parliamentary Assembly understand and realize that this should be a focus and, therefore, that now, especially when we have received this questionnaire, we are dealing with these specific issues instead of these disputes, conflicts, referendums, etc. And in this regard, this, given that he mentioned it, we know that this is the thing that will have to work, and these lower levels and exactly one approach and concept of action and through the "Block for Europe" is that it includes representatives of lower levels and entity parliaments, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, even the cantonal congregations, so that in this sense we will put this focus through parliaments and I believe that this is the way that we can actually make this work better and faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15954	Thank you very much. And now the word has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15955	I thank Mr. Chairman and congratulate you on your presidency, and I wish as successfully as Mr. Bosić did as his presidency was. My question to the Minister of Human Rights is – Is the working group appointed to draft the Law on the Rights of Cake Victims and when can it be expected that the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, through the Council of Ministers, is referred to the Law in a parliamentary procedure? 14 According to analyses, about 80% of the victims of the Bosnia and Herzegovina torture cannot exercise their rights due to non-compliance with entity laws and certain discriminatory provisions within it, and the main problems are the fact that they do not have access to justice and obtaining status, i.e. resolving health care, regular incomes, as well as the right to benefits based on the deprivement of freedom and the suffering of torture. In line with the decisions of the UN Committee on Combating Tormentary and the fact that the European Commission in its 2016 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Progress warns Bosnia and Herzegovina of the necessity of adopting the same law, I ask the Minister to give me an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15956	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović. The word is from the BiH Council of Ministers for Refugees, Human Rights and Displaced Persons, Mrs Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15957	Thank you, Chairman. At the 78th session of 24.10.2016, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted a Decision on the establishment of a Workgroup on the draft law on the rights of torture victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the failure to delegate their representatives as part of the Republika Srpska government's Working Group. The decision alone left the possibility of members from Republika Srpska participating if the Republika Srpska government subsequently decides. However, the formation of the Working Group was also delayed due to the nomination of members of the Working Group from other competent institutions. According to the programme activities, the Ministry has drawn up the working text of the draft law on the basis of the UN document Basic principles and guidelines for the exercise of the right to legal medicine and reparation of victims of serious violations of international law, human rights and serious violations of international humanitarian law. This work text of the draft law was discussed at the first session of the Working Group on 10.11.2016. Because of the complexity and sensitivity of the material that needs to be done with this, the matter to be done by this Law will also need to be done additional analysis of the situation in this area. It will also be necessary to engage experts in a clear determination of a body that would determine the total amount of damage, as well as bodies that would determine the amount of funds needed to realise the funds. This is especially because these issues have different attitudes and conflicting opinions. The intention of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is to systematically regulate this area and reach agreement on all important issues in this Law. In view of these circumstances, the Law will not be able to be done by the deadline provided for, and is realistically expected to be referred to the parliamentary procedure in the first half of 2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15958	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. Mrs. Kapetanović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15959	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. I am aware of your efforts to prevent discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of human rights. I note once again that the European Commission has reason to remind Bosnia and Herzegovina that such a law must be passed and that the most important part of the law must be a definition that meets practically part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's international obligations to ensure that domestic legislation is harmonised with 15 international law and human rights, which is the primary obligation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to prevent discrimination at all levels. I sincerely hope in my heart that the Ministry of Human Rights and the Council of Ministers will soon do so, and I ask this opportunity to define torture as a criminal offence and to be included in domestic legislation, which is the primary task of the BiH Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15960	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović. And now I give my word to the honourable representative, Mrs. Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15961	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić – Does the Council of Ministers of BiH work to develop a population policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Therefore, the reason is that police policy is a series of measures and actions carried out by a particular state towards its population, acting on a specific variable, among other things most often affecting the rate of population growth. Any auction that has a prescribed population policy aims to align the population's number and structure with its general, political, geographical and other objectives. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is facing a depopulation... of the population, and we should all be equally concerned. The ageing process in Bosnia and Herzegovina has increased dramatically over the past ten years because the mortality rate is above the birth rate and the question of what certain governments, at any level, are doing on the issue. In addition to having a decline in birth in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina faces a drastic and accelerated process of evicting the population to EU countries. A report on displaced persons of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees showed that nearly 1.7 million displaced citizens live in the world. All of this should concern Bosnia and Herzegovina in particular the most legislative body, as well as the Council of Ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question is: Is there a strategy in the Council of Ministers, is it about making population policy? I hope one of the Councils of the Minions will give me an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15962	Thank you very much. Do, the Honorable Minister Mrs. Borovac will give an answer to this question as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15963	The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has been asked by the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers of BiH by distinguished representatives of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil to answer. Bosnia and Herzegovina supported the report's guide on the basis of the Madrid International Ageing Plan, under which the ministry agreed to draw up guidelines for reporting the standards set by the Madrid International Action Plan on Ageing. This material is a key document of global aging policy concerning the consequences of ageing, well-being and active participation of older people at all levels. The analysis of the reasons for the asked question shows 16 that this issue is closely addressed in the context of the issue, and therefore we are obliged to forward your question to the BiH Council of Ministers in order to determine the working group and to define this whole document, but in which many more institutions should participate than the Human Rights and Refugees Ministry itself, and we will do so after this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15964	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, here's a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15965	I thank the honourable minister, and I am pleased to have a talker at the Council of Ministers and, in a comment given by the distinguished minister, it was noted that my question, which contained the site and by reason, was closely treated and based solely on the ageing of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I really hope that no working group will be formed, because in Bosnia and Herzegovina when there are no answers to certain questions then ad hoc commissions or working groups are formed, and that the Council of Ministers will form, not only the Ministry of Human Rights and Displaced Persons, but every member and member of the Council of Ministers should give an answer to this question and be actively involved in the creation of a population policy, because it is not only a question of women, because everything I have recently asked is immediately forwarded to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, where I consider this to be the primary issue of the Minister of Finance to provide the means for the child to be in Bosnia and Herzegovina from birth to its birth, so that the ageing and everything is followed by what it needs for that family, parents and the rest, that I should not say that the Ministry of Security, because we are faced with an unstable situation in the region and in the world, so that the Ministry of Defence and the rest of the Council should be kept in the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15966	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the honourable representative, Mr. Salki Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15967	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. It's a question of the Minister of Communications and Traffic. The BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications does not realise non-taxable walking from its own activity. In the 2015 revision process, it was found that the Ministry did not take adequate action in 2015 according to the recommendations of the audit of the previous year, and in particular showed weaknesses in the payment process. Among other things, in 2012 the Ministry adopted the Pricelist for the Professional Training of Vehicle Managers and Drivers in International Road Transport, which defined that 95% of the amount of the established price belongs to authorised authorities for professional training and conducting tests, and that 5% of the amount of the determined price is paid to the Single Account of the Treasury of BiH. According to the information available, the conditions for the collection of these funds have not yet been provided. And my question is Minister: 1. Why haven't the conditions for the payment of these funds been secured so far? 17 2. When does he plan to provide the conditions for the payment of these funds since he was six years old from the adoption of the said Cjenovnik? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15968	Thank you. The word has Saša, a respected deputy minister, Mr Saša Dalipagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15969	Thank you, Chairman. As this issue came before the end of the working day, and distinguished MPs know that the issue should come at least 24 hours before the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, which is significantly less than 24 hours, I, based on Article 175. Rules of Procedure, I suggest that this answer be delivered to the honourable representative on a written basis. And you said yourself that, and since, uh, it's a very complex and complex question, you just said yourself that it's a burning problem and it's not right that, in such a way, over the knee washes such a thing, such an important question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15970	Thank you, Deputy. Mr. Sokolović has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15971	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Deputy Minister, for your reply. Look, I've been asking a few questions at the last session of Parliament, uh, here, and I wanted to bring us both here and the public to know some of the problems that are present at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but I think this is a burning issue of non-payment of income. And here, knowing that they have problems at the Ministry of Communications and Traffic, I didn't know they had problems in this postal traffic. I delivered the question in time, where it was stuck, whether it was in the elevator, to the elevator, to the Ministry, if someone had locked the door, I don't know, but I think this is an irresponsible relationship to the MPs. We have a Rules of Procedure scheduled time, we have in time provided the answers(?) And I think we should have had an adequate answer. Here, I will also settle for an answer in written form, but because of the dignity of the House and the obligation that we have imposed when MPs ask a question that authorized answers, I think that, in the next period, you in the College should also take care that this is a serious story through parliamentary issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15972	Thank you. So, one little clarification before we move on. So, any question that is planned here today for the session, which is all these issues that are written here, have or has met the conditions regarding the provision of Rule 168 (1) of the Rules of Procedure relating to 24 hours. It is therefore possible that there is a question, as they say, of the knap with that deadline, but all the questions satisfy the conditions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. 18 The word has a respected representative, Mr Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15973	Mr. Chairman, here's my question to Mr. Zvizdić, who is not there, and this is it, I would like to hear the information about the lawsuits brought against Bosnia and Herzegovina in front of international institutions. I am interested – at what stage are these certain processes, because we know that the lawsuits are worth around 2 billion KM, and especially from the point of view that most of these lawsuits against business and legal entities from Republika Srpska, how is it planned, possibly if these disputes are lost, to settle funds before international institutions?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15974	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Do we have a prepared reply from the Council of Ministers? We don't. So you have the opportunity to ask it to be repeated at the next session this publicly or to get an answer in writing. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15975	I want to leave this for next session where Prime Minister Zvizdić will be present.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15976	I ask the services to re-record this issue and place it on the agenda of the session when there is a public appointment, the first next session when there is a public question. Now I give my word to the honourable representative, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15977	I thank you, Chairman. My parliamentary question was addressed to the deputy minister of traffic and communication who informed me yesterday that he would not be in a position, because of the important meeting he has today, to attend this session, so I would wait for the next session, given the importance of the questions and that it was about human fates of thousands and some people who were threatened by the change of route of Corridor 5c in Mostar, to wait for the next session that the minister would give an oral answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15978	Thank you very much. I ask the services, therefore, for the service to record this issue for the first next session when public, public, representation issues are asked. And finally I give my word to the honourable representative, Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15979	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected ministers and guests. My question is addressed to the Minister of Security, Mr Dragan Mektić, and I would ask him if, therefore, he can give precise information on the number of persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina who are 19 involved in the Middle East war conflicts, so Syria, Iraq, Libya, of course Ukraine and other countries, as well as the number of those who have returned from those battlefields. Then data on the criminal prosecution of those persons for violations, therefore, of applicable laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina relating to the ban on participation in wars in other countries. So, uh, Minister Mektić's question to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15980	Thank you very much. The word has been given by a respected security minister at the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Dragan Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15981	Thank you, Your Honor. Remarkable working presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I will, given that the question has been asked precisely, answer only by statistical indicators and data to this question. So, a total of 226 full-time citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been in the Syrian-Iraq wartime so far. Currently, there are 115 Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens on the Syrian battlefield. And these are the operational and intelligence data that we have, and for each individual, we have a name, a last name, and we have a certain type of file. Of these 115 now located on the Syrian-Iraq battlefield, 65 are male adult citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 56 female adult citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respectively. 65 citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have died in this part of the battlefield, and 46 citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have returned so far. All and one person of these, no, just to point out that no children are included in this issue, because one number of these persons went familyly, both husband and wife along with children. And in total, according to our intelligence, there are 57 children of minor citizens, so Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of these 46 who returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20 of them were prosecuted in the sense that they were given judicial, court rulings, whether they were first-degreed or already judicial, and 26 persons were in progress, against 26 persons a certain type of procedure is under way. None of these 46 people and these 26, to say so more specifically, which are still in some process, has returned without being treated operationally, in the sense that she was detained, conducted an informative conversation, conducted search of apartments, houses, all the rooms they use, excluded all equipment that could be artificialized and used during the process. which could result in certain evidence. [[the speaker is warned on time]] During last year, that is, only one female citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina went to Syria to make a Sharia marriage with a Serbian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15982	Thank you, Minister. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Borislav Bojić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15983	I thank the chairman. So, this data, I didn't just look for it, I think it's important that the MPs hear it. I don't think this issue is only important for your ministry and for the security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am not sure that, to what extent other competent institutions of 20 social, criminal institutions, etc. are engaged, which should deal with these issues. I think the question is very important, not only for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for the region, and Bog knows that in every case, the issue needs to be given adequate attention, because it seems to me, according to information that can be learned, of course I learn them from the media, and you from your services, that they have other countries through which, therefore, they carry out these kinds of transfers. I therefore believe that competent institutions that are not only related to security structures will pay at least as much attention as you pay to this issue, which I hope you recognise as a very important issue, which can be a serious problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina given the terrorist acts that were happening here in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15984	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is how we ended up with a public oral question. We are now moving on to the agenda of today's session. Before that, Mr. Damir Arnaut, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15985	I thank the chairman. I tried to contact you during the previous point, uh, but there's no technical possibility, so now I'm taking the opportunity. So, about Deputy Dalipagić's comments, you called for a completely wrong member of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Article 169 deals with oral parliamentary issues and he explicitly says – if the President of the Council of Ministers is not prepared to give an answer to the oral question, then it is mandatory to respond orally at the next session. Therefore, no written reply is allowed unless the person who asked the question asks, but the person who gives the answers to the oral questions if he is not ready may ordinarily answer at the next session. This is Article 169. Rules of Procedure. Just for future practice so it doesn't happen to go into practice to write to us then... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15986	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut, for, therefore, this intervention. We take care of it, it's the job of the College and we'll really do it, and thank you for your public clarification. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the agenda of today's session. As for the change of session agenda, I would like to point out the following. On the agenda, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, it was downloaded: Point 78. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 02.11.2016. (second reading) The following shall be added to the agenda: point 3. Confirmation of the appointment of Deputy Minister at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01/7-34-1-3028/16, of 01/12/2016. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. 21 A esteemed representative, Mr. Denis Bećirović, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15987	Dear Chairman Džaferović, we have heard from one of the members of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives that the blade of its attack focuses on individual media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that it completely ignores two key things, which are – what is the cause of such reactions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are unmoved statements by the president of the Republic of Croatia and that he is drawing attention from the frequent media Satanisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With that in mind, and in line with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask – did the College, as a body, discuss this and consider having Parliament's position on such insults against Bosnia and Herzegovina today? We also heard Minister Mektić, a man clearly confirmed that what he was talking about and what the president of the Republic of Croatia said had nothing to do with each other. That's the kind of thing I think we need to react to. My question is – did you as a College consider taking one position today and telling the presidents of the Republic of Croatia not to Satanise Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15988	Thank you. So, as far as I can see, there are no suggestions here, questions being asked, this is the point where we propose a agenda or we comment on the proposed agenda. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15989	I thank the chairman. There was no business opportunity at the previous commentary, i.e. asking questions, so that I would take the opportunity and, before the 39th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, ask my colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the Council of Ministers, present guests and guests to pay tribute with a minute of silence to the victims of civilians in Aleppo. The reason for this is that the sad picture of the surrounding portals that Bosnia and Herzegovina once survived, where Bosnia and Herzegovina, the civilian victims in the past war, cried out for the reaction of the world, cried for an appeal to stop the hell that we once went through, and today, unfortunately, innocent and innocent children in Aleppo. The least we can do is pay tribute to victims, survivors, or innocent children for a minute of silence. So, I repeat, to civilians, not placing themselves on any other political option or current powers that rule there, only against the victims who die innocently there, Bosnia and Herzegovina can honor those victims with a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15990	Thank you very much. Any comments on the agenda? Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15991	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and other guests. 22 In accordance with Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Representatives, the SNSD Club proposes to consider and adopt the new item of the 39th session of the House of Representatives' House of Representatives – a decision on the discharge of Members of the Šefik from the office of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of Representatives' House. I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to give an explanation and I would really ask my colleagues to allow me to give a few words, given the fact that the SNSD has a clear political position on this matter and I would ask you not to throw it away as I speak. As the Kolegijum in the House of Representatives and the public knows, at the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 8th, 9, 11, 12th, 13, 14, and 15th session of the House of Representatives, as well as at the 1st and 3rd emergency session of the House of Representatives proposed the inclusion of the agenda item – the decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the office of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, i.e. members of the House of Representatives. This item of the agenda is again proposed for the same reasons that we did it at the previous sessions. We are aware of the fact that the BiH Prosecutor's Office on 11 March 2015 made a decision not to conduct an investigation against Mr. Džaferović... that as former head of the Centre of Public Security, Zenica knew about war crimes against civilians and war prisoners of Serb nationality in the area covered by the Centre, and that he did nothing to prevent, report or prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes. However, fellow MPs who will decide again today to include this point in the 39th session agenda should be aware of several other facts. The BiH Prosecutor's Office in December 2015 indicted former BiH Army Commander Sakib Mahmuljin, who is charged with the same war crimes that former BiH Vice-President Mirsad Kebo, on the basis of documentation and evidence submitted to the prosecution, also accused Šefik Džaferović. Making the decision not to conduct an investigation against Šefik Džaferović, the BiH Prosecutor's Office called for the Criminal Law of the former SFRY, not the Criminal Law of BiH, which treats command responsibility and which in most cases has been reserved for the defendants of Serbian nationality. The BiH prosecutor's office has made an express and under pressure a decision not to conduct an investigation against Džaferović. I believe that such a decision can be brought in connection with the influence and control that the SDA, whose party is a senior official, clearly has over the work of judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are witnessing the current and systematic pressures of the SDA on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in an effort to influence the election The BiH court thus retains influence and control over the work of judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Employee is warned on time]] Proposing the inclusion of this item of the agenda, MPs from the SNSD Club understand the fact that Parliament is not a courtroom, but is a House in which political positions are determined and political decisions are made accordingly. Our position is that Mr. Džaferović, because of the heavy burden of the war past that he carries and the accusations that are attached to his name, cannot perform the function of the chairman of the House of Representatives, i.e. he cannot represent this House and all of us together. With this we call on you, here I will very soon finish Mr. Džaferović, just one more sentence, so I invite you to support our proposal and decision on the resolution Šefik the Chairman, or member of the College and, of course, all MPs, respecting all of us, to jointly consider this opportunity to put the agenda in place and, of course, to act in accordance with political views on the clarification of this initiative. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15992	Is anyone else answering for word? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We have one proposal to change the agenda, that's Mr. Košarac's proposal. Prepare to vote on Mr. Košarac's proposal to include this item on the agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 5 votes to 18, against and 9 abstentions, this proposal was not supported. And before I declare the agenda of today's session, on a constructive proposal of distinguished MPs, Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, I invite you to give our respect to innocent civilians in Aleppo for a minute of silence or another way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15994	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Košarac, word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15995	Using the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the SNSD MPs' club, I request a break of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15996	Just to declare the agenda and you'll get a break right away, as much as you asked for a break. So, I find that today's session, after we've spoken about the agenda, has that agenda set out in the call for today's session. So that's this amended agenda from 14.12.2016, with points 1 to 94. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 38th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Confirmation of the appointment of Deputy Minister in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01/7-34-1-3028/16, of 01.12.2016; 4. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1827/16, of 04.07.2016; 5. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Review of the Implementation of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2131/16, dated 04.08.2016; 6. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Anti-doping Control Agency for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2124/16, of 04.08.2016; 7. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Coordination Directorate for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2125/16, of 04.08.2016; 24 8. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Service Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2126/16, of 04.08.2016; 9. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2127/16, dated 04.08.2016; 10. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2128/16, of 04.08.2016; 11. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Procurement Agency for 2015, issue: 02-16-1-2129/16, of 04.08.2016; 12. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2130/16, of 04.08.2016; 13. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Market Oversight Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2136/16, of 04.08.2016; 14. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Insurance Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2137/16, dated 04.08.2016; 15. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Support Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2138/16, dated 04.08.2016; 16. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2139/16, dated 04.08.2016; 17. Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2140/16, of 04.08.2016; 18. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2142/16, of 04.08.2016; 19. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Audit of the Foreign Investments Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2143/16, dated 04.08.2016; 20. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2144/16, of 04.08.2016; 21. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2145/16, of 04.08.2016; 22. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Food Safety Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2146/16, of 04.08.2016; 23. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Agency for 2015, issue: 02-16-1-2147/16, of 04.08.2016; 24. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for School and Professional Comprovement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2015 Staff, issue: 01-16-1 2148/16, dated 04.08.2016; 25. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue 01-16-1-2150/16, dated 04.08.2016; 26. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the 2015 Bosnia and Herzegovina Archives, issue: 01-16-1-2151/16, dated 04.08.2016; 27. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Centre for Information and Recognition of Documents in High Education of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2152/16, of 04.08.2016; 28. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Centre for Mine Removal in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 02-16-1-2153/16, of 04.08.2016; 25 29. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Civil Aviation Directorate of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2154/16 of 04.08.2016; 30. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Economic Planning Directorate for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2155/16, of 04.08.2016; 31. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina European Integration Directorate for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2156/16, of 04.08.2016; 32. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2157/16, dated 04.08.2016; 33. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2158/16, of 04.08.2016; 34. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Return Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2159/16, dated 04.08.2016; 35. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue 01-16-1-2160/16, dated 04.08.2016; 36. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina Border Police for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2161/16, dated 04.08.2016; 37. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2162/16, dated 04.08.2016; 38. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Consumer Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2163/16, dated 04.08.2016; 39. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Accreditation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2164716, dated 04.08.2016; 40. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2165/16, of 04.08.2016; 41. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Institute of Measurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2166/16, of 04.08.2016; 42. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Missing Persons of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2167/16, dated 04.08.2016; 43. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Institute for Standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2168/16, of 04.08.2016; 44. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Unit for the Implementation of the Project of the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2169/16, since 04.08.2016; 45. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Commission for Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions for 2015, issue 01-16-1-2170/16, dated 04.08.2016; 46. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Competitiveness Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2171/16, dated 04.08.2016; 47. Report by the Office for the Review of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Srebrenica Memorial Centre - Potocari, memorial marking and mesars for victims of genocide from 1995 for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2172/16, since 04.08.2016; 48. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 02-16-1-2173/16, dated 04.08.2016; 26 49. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2174/16, dated 04.08.2016; 50. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2175/16, dated 04.08.2016; 51. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2176/16, dated 04.08.2016; 52. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2177/16, dated 04.08.2016; 53. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2178/16, dated 04.08.2016; 54. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-12179/16, dated 04.08.2016; 55. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2180/16, dated 04.08.2016; 56. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2181/16, dated 04.08.2016; 57. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the State Service for Appeals Committee of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2182/16, of 04.08.2016; 58. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2183/16, dated 04.08.2016; 59. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Commission for the Conservation of the National Monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2184/16, dated 04.08.2016; 60. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2185/16, dated 04.08.2016; 61. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Presidency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2186/16, dated 04.08.2016; 62. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2187/16, of 04.08.2016; 63. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Office for Foreign Affairs for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2188/16, of 04.08.2016; 64. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Office for Joint Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2189/16, dated 04.08.2016; 65. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Central Harmonisation Unit of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2190/16, of 04.08.2016; 66. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2191/16, dated 04.08.2016; 67. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Court of BiH for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2192/16, dated 04.08.2016; 68. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2193/16, of 04.08.2016; 69. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Health Protection Administration for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2195/16, of 04.08.2016; 27 70. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2196/16, dated 04.08.2016; 71. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Office of the Public Administration Reform Coordinators of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2197/16, dated 04.08.2016; 72. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Office for Harmonisation of the Payment System in Agriculture, Food and Rural Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2198/16, since 04.08.2016; 73. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Office for the Review of the 2015 Appeals of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-16-1-2199/16, of 04.08.2016; 74. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Office for Veterinary Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2200/16, dated 04.08.2016; 75. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Office for the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2201/16, dated 04.08.2016; 76. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2202/16, of 04.88.2016; 77. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Council for State Aid for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2203/16, dated 04.08.2016; 78. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 02-16-1-2204/16, of 04/08/2016, 79. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No 01,02-02-1-2914/16, of 15.11.2016. (second reading); 80. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2194/16, of 05.08.2016.; 81. Appointment of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people (rank-list of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency), material number: 01.2-29-2889/16, since 11.11.2016; 82. Consideration of the Denis Bećirović parliamentary initiative, submitted on 09.11.2016, which reads: “It is up to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit, no later than six months after the date of adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, amendments and additions to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which stipulates that the elected member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency must not be a member of the political party, or, at the time of his entry into office, resigns to party duties, and informs the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina of this”, Act No: 01-50-1-2863/16; 83. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 24.11.2016, which reads: "It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to, no later than 90 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, prepare and submit to the parliamentary procedure the proposal for a law on the award of the Earth Anti-Fashist Council of National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ZAVNOBiH)", issue: 01-50-1 2973/16; 84. Consideration of Borislav Bojić's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 28.11.2016, which reads: "The BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution is tasked with drawing up a special report on the appearance, use and protection of state, or official features in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1-3005/16; 28 85. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office, No: 01,02-05-2-2866/16, of 09.11.2016; 86. Giving consent to the ratification of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, No. 01,02-05-2-2993/16, of 18.11.2016; 87. Providing consent to ratification of the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, No: 01,02-05-2-2934/16, of 18.11.2016; 88. Granting consent for ratification of Treaty No 1 on the Amending of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, signed on 27 October 2011. (Sarajevo – City Transport Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-2935/16 of 18.11.2016; 89. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of the Balkan Medical Forces, No 01,02-05-2-2936/16, of 18.11.2016; 90. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (FBiH Roads – After Flooding and Modernisation) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-2937/16, from 18.11.2016; 91. Giving consent to the ratification of the grant agreement Trust Fund for Global Environmental Capabilities and the Special Fund for Climate Change (Project Management of the Drina River Basin in the Western Balkans) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2945/16, of 18.11.2016; 92. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 1 to the Treaty on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, concluded on 22 September 2010 in Luxembourg/Sarajev – Vodavod and sewerage RS (FI – 25.471), issue: 01.02-05-2-2-2946/16, since 18.11.2016; 93. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement for the State housing project between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Housing Programme, issue 01,02-05-2-2977/16, of 18.11.2016; 94. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Europe for Citizens programme, No 01,02-05-2-955/16, of 22.11.2016. And now, before we move to the first item of the agenda, at the request of the SNSD MPs' Club, I'm giving a 30-metre break. We'll continue at 12:00. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Mr. Staša Košarac, after the SNSD Club asked for a break, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15998	Thank you. It is my duty to inform my colleagues, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of the continued conduct of the SNSD Members' Club. Since our initiative to include the agenda item on your shift has not received enough votes, the SNSD will, in the next few days, make a final decision on how and how we will act in the work of the House of Representatives or, in general, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, on the one hand. And on the other hand, I express a kind of regret that there are still certain politicians from Republika Srpska who opposed such an initiative, Mr. Bosić was the only one from Republika Srpska against it. And I also regret that certain colleagues who are participating in the second club were in the O.R. and have not made themselves known how they see this initiative when it comes to you personally. But that says enough about all of them. Today we will not participate in the work of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u15999	Thank you, but not to remain in your debt and I will tell you to continue with the political torture here in the House of Representatives towards me and that is something that is absolutely unacceptable and that is the abuse of this Parliament for the most perfidious political purposes. We're going back to work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the first item of the agenda is Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 38th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16002	I thank the chairman. So here I finally got, after I asked this question twice, and the answer. This is about fees received from the System Committee. Namely, the members of the Board of the System are members of the Management Board of three public services. In the Progress Report, we have seen that the state of public service is not great at all, which is because of the financing, which is, for example, concretely, the Progress Report states and notes that the RTRS Management Board is under the full political control of a party. And, so, as a result of such a bad condition, we have that the Board of Directors, the Board of Systems is meeting about, when you see from 2012 until today, five times a year, and they have a legal obligation to meet once a month, means the law tells them so, but it is not an obstacle for them to meet at any time nicely in the pocket of 1,100 KM. And that actually shows who we choose on boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16003	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16004	I thank the chairman. I wish you the successful leadership of these sessions of Parliament which clearly started in one unwanted way, but so it is. I received an answer which I asked two months ago at the 36th session, so I am surprised that it took two months for the Institute of Intellectual Property to answer my question in a text which differed from the previous answer given to a colleague, Novaković, a very important sentence to which I will refer today, and this question was, among other things, the harmonisation of our Law on the Protection of Copyright with European Directives, where in this one single different sentence, it is said that this Law does not really comply with Directive 28 adopted in 2012, which it speaks, among other things, about the permitted use of the works of orphans. I will explain briefly, these are works of unknown authors, works of authors who are inaccessible and are known, there is original folk music, there is music from countries that are not signatories of the International Copyright Treaty. Well, in that context, I would like to say that with... associations that are from the tourism and hotel areas, i.e. catering, I will initiate an amendment to the law in order to comply with this Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16005	Thank you very much. The comment has a distinguished representative, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16006	I thank the chairman. The comment is on the foreign ministry's response. So, the BiH Presidency adopted the regulation in 2013, adopted a conclusion obliging the foreign ministry to draft a Regulation on the evaluation of the work of ambassadors and other international representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was in 2013. And then in 2015, I asked the MP why it hadn't been done yet, so a year and a half after the Presidency adopted it. And the MIP then provided me with a response which he says – starting with the legal responsibilities and responsibilities that the IHR has in the procedures of appointment of ambassadors and other international representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the Minister of Foreign Affairs, thinks of 2013 that Zlatko Lagumdžija's external affairs appreciated this approach as inappropriate from the aspect of the interest and the need to co-operate with the BiH Presidency and the Foreign Ministry, we appreciate that the election of the new presidency and the appointment of the new Foreign Minister has removed personal barriers and created a prerequisite for co-operation with the offices of members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a transparent and quality way to prepare and bring forward those regulations. Now, that was 2015. Now, since that answer, it has been a year and a half, and I have now asked them a question – to which personal obstacles between the former minister and the former prime minister specifically thought that the same or similar obstacles existed between the current minister and this meeting of the Bureau, and if there are no concrete reasons why this Regulation has not yet been adopted. And I've got a squire, bureaucratic, civil servant response, as you will, but the fact is that the ambassador's evaluation regulation hasn't been adopted yet, although here it is now four years after the presidency has ordered the Foreign Ministry to do so. I am particularly dissatisfied with this kind of civil response and I am really interested in it, and my colleague Isaković points out why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not adopt the Foreign Affairs Act, so they are the most ordinary rules that are not able to adopt, and I find it most difficult to fall, because I never have the opportunity to ask the Minister directly, because I do not remember, except when we named him, that he was ever in a session of this House. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm Jeda, yeah. Thank you, Nikola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16008	Thank you very much. The word came to mind, for a comment, the honourable representative, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16009	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it's true that I got a written response to my orality, I don't know six, seven questions to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, I got an answer from the minister of justice. I reserve the right to make additional questions, since I haven't received that answer for a long time, and now 32 have come into the set, so I'll do it again in writing, so I guess I'll get an answer, and if I don't, then I'll have to use some other mechanisms again, and hopefully we'll settle the question of answering in the Rules of Procedure soon. I'd also take advantage of the opportunity to say that federal television hasn't answered me either, so now, I think it's been a few months now, to my question about using language and the rights of constitutive peoples to information in public TV services. No Niko, answer RTRS and BHRT, the Federal never responded, so here's a suggestion that you try to, uh, sort it out with some kind of emergency. And I also didn't get an answer to the question asked about the Environment Development Strategy from the Council of Ministers. And I hope Mrs. Borovac is working on resolving the Filipović family issue, because I said I wouldn't touch it until after New Year's Eve, but I hope something will work out by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16010	Thank you. No more logged in for this agenda item. Moving to point three, that's it, Ad. 3. Confirmation of the appointment of Deputy Minister at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01/7-34-1-3028/16, of 01/12/2016. On 01.12.2016, a decision on the appointment of Vujin was adopted in the House of Representatives. Is it Vujina or Vojina? ____________?) A Vojin, a Vojin.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16015	I pledge to knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16016	I pledge to knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16017	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16018	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16019	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16020	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16021	Dear Sir, I give you my congratulations on behalf of the House of Representatives and on my behalf, and I wish you all the best in carrying out this responsible duty. Thank you. We're taking a break for congratulating. You can take five minutes, five minutes off to congratulate. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16023	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16024	Ten minutes at Mr. Bosić's request, break. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 4. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02- 16-1827/16, as of 04.07.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16027	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, given the report that's basically a report full of figures and it's very difficult to analyze through that segment, I'm only going to point to two things that show that, there's the finance minister, so I hope he understands me because I'm not saying this on purpose, I'm saying this on purpose. One section shows when in a section of course differences, i.e. repayment and increase of obligations due to exchange rate differences in conversion marks, it shows that someone, or something, or some institutions do not care about the so-called “. ” Trade in currencies, i.e. preventing the possibility of increasing the total debt in such a quantum by fast conversion and disallowing the loss of total debt based on an increase or fall in the rate. I know this is when I say a lot of people are going to say it's something that when it comes to the budget you can't control, it's not true, because those funds are either deposited or somewhere in a bank, with some institution and this institution and that bank or those banks where that money is deposited should be held accountable. Your currency is like tomatoes and it's traded like potatoes, literally so, today its price is this big, tomorrow it's the same, but not just today, but currency prices change every second, every second. For this reason, there are stockbrokers working only on currencies, i.e. money, sales and currency purchases. You have it recorded about the drop and the growth of the dollar and so I don't list everything else. And that topic should be discussed and found by those who know 35 of these deals. The most obvious example is the Central Bank, which with a total capital of only 213 million when it began to profit from forty-something million precisely because of the trade in currencies. And since nobody's doing it there today, look at the billions that have the total profit. The currency is not traded to be worn in baskets, but traded to these satan devices that are in front of us, and no one is doing this today and we lose a terrible loss on course differences. Everyone knew that the dollar couldn't stay brand and fifty, that it would grow, but no one dared to make a purchase and sell in the currency system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16028	Thank you. The word came from the esteemed representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16029	Thank you. I would like to point out one very important thing in this report, on page 29, says – also in November 2015, the Law on Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which amended the provision and reduced the right to compensation of members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards and other working bodies, resulting in additional savings. The savings effect has been evident since the end of November 2015 and will be reflected in particular in 2016. And I look forward to such a similar report that we will have next year, and I hope that the Ministry of Finance will give up all its plans to make exceptions among any institution, especially in a way to exclude them from the law, to put them above the law, and only on the basis of a list of wishes of those who do not like these 475 marks, or those who are not aware of the reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who think that 475 marks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as they say, are few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16030	Thank you. Mr. Salko Sokolović, the esteemed representative, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, just a few words. Although this is last year's report, there is nothing quality we can do to fix the situation, but here, perhaps a few questions, since some of the items in the Budget's 2016 report are also in Budget for 2017, so I will say here and read precisely, so that I don't miss the figures – the total unrealised funds transferred in 2016 to Fund 50 are 76,174,000, etc., of which 62,972,000 represents 85% in the name of the projects listed above, and 13 is for the development of the Telecommunications Sector, regarding the funds allocated to universal mobile telecommunications licenses. The same amount of funds has been transferred to the budget for 2017. And now what interests me at this point is why these approved projects, i.e. by decision of the Council of Ministers, are allocated to projects, so I will list only one - construction and supervision of the interstate bridge Gradiška, on the highway Banja Luka – Gradiška – Okucani, etc., the appropriations of 15.988,000 are not realised. So we have other projects, and it's somewhere in the collection, here's some of these, as I said earlier, about 62 million funds. 36 What Does This Matter? Well, it's important that these are the funds that have been transferred from one continuum to, here, today, not realized. These are the funds that are frozen, which don't turn around, that don't give a new value, and then on the other hand we come into a situation, right, to call the International Monetary Fund to help us, to lend us, to borrow the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here, just on this example of defrosting these funds, by getting into financial flows, we wouldn't have to be in debt anyway. I think our first tranche of the International Monetary Fund is this big. Well, here, only when it comes to the report is a specific question to the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Finance, although it is not responsible, we all call the Ministry of Finance – which is why these funds have not been realised so far and what are the brakes? Here, let's see if we as Parliament can help in this, on that path, from more efficient realisation of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16032	Thank you. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the five-day stand, Ad. 5. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Review of the Implementation of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, issue: 01-16-1-2131/16, dated 04.08.2016. At its 37th session, held on 29th August 2016, the House College appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as responsible for considering the Report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 15.11.2016. The Commission accepted the report and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. The Commission has also adopted conclusions and is proposing to the House their adoption. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Isaković, came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16034	I thank the chairman. I want to say hello to you all at the very beginning, since I'm reporting for the first time. In fact, the question arises why is the auditory report serving? The simple question is logical in itself because for many years, for almost 13 years, we have reports that have no purpose in the sense that audit reports are being carried out, recommendations are being made, and no one respects those recommendations. Let me remind you that in 2014 we had 460 recommendations, in 2015 we have 530 recommendations. Imagine when we add an impact review here, and we add, and the time will come because we are going to the EU, and a quality review, how many of these recommendations will be. The implementation of these recommendations is only between 50% and 60%, and within Europe's borders, hence 90% in the EU. What are we able to do to respect these recommendations? The recommendations themselves should serve, i.e. the revision itself, to strengthen the responsibilities of institutions in spending public funds. The degree of realization, therefore, of these recommendations is not satisfactory... between 50% and 60%. In 2015, we had 74 and 75 audits, 5 were opinions with a reserve and a distraction, one institution is an opinion with a reserve, 37 60%, 67 institutions have a positive opinion, of which 40 positive opinions with a distraction. I must mention here that 50% of the budget, therefore, is used by reserve-based institutions, so 50% of the funds are used by institutions that have problems in their business. In the institutions on progress, the report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in the EU says there is a need for greater transparency in spending public funds. Bosnia and Herzegovina is on this basis at 72nd place. It wouldn't be a problem if those recommendations were complicated. We have five, six institutions that are 10, 12, 13 years old, from the very beginning, that have the same problems. I would like to point out to the Foreign Ministry, a moment ago my esteemed colleague Arnaut was talking about the Foreign Affairs Act, and even after 13 years, we don't have the Foreign Affairs Act, although from year to year the audit reports mention it. The following comments are made on internal audit. So, very much, almost every institution has this problem, not to say that the list of assets is a problem, a contract on work, travel expenses, financial operations, etc. I will therefore recommend one conclusion - that these six institutions, or five, regardless of having been heard by the Finance and Budget Commission, make a programme to remove these shortcomings and bring the programme here to the Parliamentary Assembly and see if it will then be respected. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16035	Thank you very much. I don't think we're going to be able to separate the debate on the Audit Office's report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a special point, from all other reports that are under points 6 to 78, I see that it is also going into debate on these points from 6 to 78. And I now propose that we bring together, therefore, the debate on points 5 through 78, to give the word to the deputy general auditor and then to continue this debate that is here on these points. I put my proposal to the vote, on the unification, from the 5th to the 78th points, the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 23 for, 2 against, 7 abstentions. Enough entity majority, we've made a decision and we've brought the debate together. Ad. Six. – 78 Reports from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the financial audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2015 Let me read you the notes on points 6 to 78 because I read it for the fifth point. So, reports on the financial audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2015 were delivered on 04/08/2016 and included in the agenda in the order of delivery. On 24.11.2016, the Financial and Budget Commission submitted a summary opinion on the financial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2015 audit reports, with a proposal for conclusions. 38 The first group of reports are reports with an audit positive opinion – 27 institutions and a positive opinion with an emphasis on the subject – 40 institutions. The second group makes up a report with an audit opinion with a reserve – one institution and an opinion with a reserve with an emphasis on the case – 5 institutions, and reports on which the Office for the Review of BiH institutions points to the Commission to pay special attention when considering. The second group's reports were discussed by the Commission with a public statement from the representatives of those institutions at a regular session. So, the Commission has discussed in detail the report on financial operations of 6 Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, the BiH Ministry of Defence, the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, the BiH Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange and the BiH Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH. For these six reports, the Commission has drawn up specific opinions which form an integral part of the summary opinion and contained in each of these conclusions which provide for certain obligations for the institutions. In addition to these conclusions, in the summary opinion itself, the Commission adopted four conclusions and proposed their adoption to the House. I'm now opening a debate on points, again, so 5 to 78. I give my word to the deputy general auditor of the BiH institutions, Mr. Rank Krsman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16037	Good afternoon again. Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, and other guests. First of all, allow me to warmly welcome you on behalf of the Office, on behalf of the auditor general who is justly absent, on behalf of his colleague, Pilice, and on his own behalf. The BiH institutions' audit office conducted a regular financial audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions as well as previous years, in line with the 2016 revision plan. The audit was carried out in an already common way through a cycle that starts with planning and a previous revision, ending with final reports on the revision of the Parliamentary Assembly. These reports were delivered in their final form to the audit entities for follow-up. The office shall be in accordance with Articles 13 and 16. Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' audit law also carried out an audit of the implementation of the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, which consists of a report submitted to the competent entity of the audit, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH. This year, therefore, individual reports, then the report on the review of the implementation of the Budget with the main findings and recommendations, at the same time we sent it to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The question is, why did we do it? For one space, the tendency to mainly implement individual simpler recommendations relating to each institution individually, while recommendations whose realisation requires the engagement of several different institutions whose realisation would help to improve the situation within the entire system, so the recommendations that this Office calls systemically, unfortunately remain not realised. At the same time, we also stressed that the whole review process represents a single whole. So over the years, the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' office has seen certain shortcomings in the system nature whose resolution requires more, the involvement of more actors, or institutions. We want focus and attention from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and to Bog and the public, this year, to focus on the systemic findings of recommendations whose realisation would have a more positive effect on the overall consistency and efficiency of the budget in most budget users. Otherwise, the office carried out a financial audit of 74 budget users, which was drawn up by the Report and gave an opinion on financial operations for each user individually. Of the 39 total number of audited institutions, 5 were given an opinion with a reserve and a distraction, one institution with a reserve opinion, 67 received a positive opinion, of which 40 were positive with a distraction. In one case, the office abstained from giving an opinion. Institutions that received an opinion in the audit reports with a reserve in the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' total budget of around 53%. For the 2015 report on the revision of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the Office expressed its opinion with a reserve and a distraction. During 2015, I stress, the Office also carried out 5 impact audits. We want this distinguished House and tomorrow at the House of Peoples to draw attention to the need to strengthen and implement the recommendations we made through our reports. A total of 70 recommendations were made only in the 2015 report on the revision of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A report on the revision of the implementation of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in 2014... gave a recommendation of 19. Some up to 55% of these recommendations have been implemented, which, in our opinion, is insufficient or inadequate. We believe that the realisation of the recommendations for revisions, especially those of the system nature, is a condition for any further step towards improving financial discipline and strengthening public money management. They also find the recommendations, or reports from the office, are, I want to point out, finally, that is, the final ones they are. They are the result of established factual status, professional assessment of auditors and made up in accordance with methodology, laws and standards. The conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are understood and accepted as an instrument in the role of realising the recommendations. We believe that Parliament and the Office are partners in this business, as exclusively independent two institutions. We believe that any conclusion that you, as a respected House, will make will be in the function of implementation, i.e. the realization of recommendations. We also believe that not realising and ignoring the recommendations of the revision and the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are best talked about the degree of development of society and the rule of law. We need, in particular, the institutions of the system to implement the laws, to raise the question of responsibility for those who have allowed budget money to be spent without certain financial discipline, since the absence of reaction and deafening to the recommendations of the audit and the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly are indeed a fertile ground for non-transparency and illegal spending of the budget. Let me also be personal, free, free, so I can say... and a violation of credibility sees these two important independent institutions. The issue of responsibility, therefore, must be raised to a much higher level than the current one and thus affect the degree of implementation of the recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16038	Thank you. Now we're going to continue the debate. The word has a gentleman, distinguished representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, through the discussion of the execution of the Budget... this one question, I didn't get an answer, and it concerns the transferred funds. The Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' audit office also saw this as a lack. And, here's what I'm saying, here, when we're talking here, we're making some of our views, we're looking for answers to the questions asked, we don't usually get them, so it turns out we're talking to ourselves. I hope that this audit report is very important matter, it will give answers to some questions, well, among other things, to questions about the non-transparency and illegality of spending. Here, Deputy Chief Auditor and my colleague Isaković have already mentioned 40 things that I wanted to say, but here, I would like to warn us once again that reading this report is easy to see that the Office for Audit has given special attention to the implementation of earlier recommendations, because there is the key to the problem, and all of those shortcomings shown in the 2015 Report, because the 2014 recommendations are largely not realised. Of the 90 recommendations made by the audit report for 2014 only 10, 27 are implemented and 53 recommendations are not implemented. That is why this 2015 financial audit report is also enriched with 70 new recommendations, essentially recommendations that have not been realised for many years. What I would like to draw particular attention to here to us is that compared to 2014 the audit found 153 per cent higher payment per court dispute. I don't think that's good, and from some 3,278,000 2014, we have, so 8,320,000 funds spent on litigation. When we look at the reasons why this happened, that these are labour-based disputes, public procurement but also based on misunderstandings within state institutions that did not know in the litigation process to defend the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, as it is said here, BiH's Attorney General has differing views that the one who sued in the process would receive some 1.583,000 marks. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that this kind of work within state institutions isn't good, it's irresponsible, and right then these things happen to us that money from the budget is being spent in an untransparent and illegal way. There is little time to say everything that should be said when it comes to this audit report, but here I will mention just one more example of unhappiness within the Council of Ministers. And, here, I don't understand, and I would ask the minister really to answer this question – which is why the payment of a special bonus to the salaries of police officers is illegal, and we had the opportunity and we could pass the law and include this Agency for the Coordination of Police Authorities in the legal payment. So, these are some things, in my opinion, the irresponsibility of the budget of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, giving space to this, the Audit Office, that sees this problem and says that this is a problem, that is, here we do not, with our unhappiness, influence the number of recommendations that, I say, is enormously high in this year, and most of them, 28, is essential in character. And here, finally just, I'd like to ask you for 30 more seconds, so we have a summary opinion here on the audit reports proposed by the Finance and Budget Commission, here we are, uh, proposing that the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives adopt these audit reports. [[Employee is warned on time]] Most of these conclusions are aimed at the Council of Ministers and, behold, that, perhaps in the end, we define a time in which the Council of Ministers should analyse these conclusions, propose measures, monitor the implementation and inform the Parliamentary Assembly of these conclusions. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16040	Thank you. I'm asking you to really stick to the time, so we don't get back into these awkward situations to take my word for it. I, I let go, this is a discussion a minute and a half more or something even stronger than that, but I'm asking you to stick to this time. Correction of the wrong allegation, Your Honor, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16041	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 41 So I refer to a part of the debate of Mr. Sokolović when he spoke in that section about court fees, therefore to disputes. I think it's somewhat incorrect to say that only institutions, misunderstandings, which he partly quoted from the Report, are guilty within the system of such a situation in the loss of these disputes, so to speak to the costs of that kind of purpose. I think we've contributed to that. I will remind you only two, three sessions ago that we have brought down the Law on BiH's Defence where the issue has been resolved, so in a way more effective work when it comes to the conduct of judicial proceedings, so we have also contributed to it. I'm just reminding, so it's not just their fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16042	Thank you. Discussion, honourable representative, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin the discussion, I would like to mention, here is what you have just said, a minute and 46 seconds has exceeded the discussion of fellow Sokolović, you have not interrupted him, and in asking the question six is overcoming anything in asking questions, which in comments, you have not interrupted anyone except me. I don't think it's personal, but what I'm saying is that today was a little more common than that, and here, it's registered. I hope I don't get in a position right now to go over this planned time and get in a position to be interrupted by you. So I want to comment on this agenda point that's really high-quality and well-prepared. On page 98, it's really a material that we can gladly accept, but what I'm interested in, in fact, which is surprising to me, is that at these levels at which these remarks should be expected not to exist, but that these audit reports point to any kind of wine gaps, I think it should be a priority to all these institutions. Whatever page we take from this report, this material, as I said on page 98, we can, as I would say, discuss it a lot longer than we've planned for this discussion, but here I've just taken and compared the comments from the entire material that applies, so let's say, that that's how I want to point out the impression that this is happening. So, it sounds amazing that the objections that apply to actually paying for the transport of workers, the procurement of a number of institutions, the adoption of accounting standards, the fight against corruption, the employment at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the conclusion of a contract on work, that the need for sustainable implementation of human resources management, then stresses the need to build an IPA fund management system. So it's a direct loss of funds that Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have enough anyway, and it's hard to get out of these funds. Then, and the hiring of credit funds, which I don't understand, is why the loan... asked if we weren't able to hire it. The issue, accommodation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, approval of grants to budget users with a proposal to be used in exceptional cases. However, it seems to have certainly become a rule. Then, more efficiently informatively, the IT system, then we have a problem getting personal documents, but here's the opportunity to hear that the tender for it has been annulled and that it will go again. So what the review pointed out to these problems, here, let's say, it's too soon to discuss it, but it's over. I hope it's gonna be okay. Then we come up with really one group of issues that, for example, involve managing customs terminals – no transparent activity is provided. So who should provide transparent activities if they do not want state institutions, or where state institutions have 42 influences that at least what is done must be transparent. The transparency of the work of the institutions is then generally recognised as a problem, therefore, there is also an increased degree of transparency recommended. So these are things that should simply not be spoken of at this stage of democracy's development, regardless of which should be significantly higher, but here, in this case, it is nevertheless indicated that transparency is not satisfactory. Then, a higher degree of financial control is recommended. Well, my Bog, it just sounds amazing that there's not enough financial control in these state institutions at this level. An increase in energy efficiency at all levels and in all users is recommended. We have to learn in this country that we have no energy, no matter what it says we have energy, so we export energy, that... one thing, we need to think about the future, which must be clear to everyone there is no cheap energy anymore. The energy will be expensive, especially the one we waste. And, therefore, I really want to praise this document and I'm sorry that we may not have enough time to discuss all these materials in more detail, but it seems to me that, in fact, I'm sure, what my colleague Isaković has suggested, that at least those institutions where there are records of failures, where this is highlighted in the auditor's report, are doing the programme itself that will help us eliminate these shortcomings in the coming period and that we have a more favourable report next year than we had today. Here, I'm not, I've got 11 seconds left, but that's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16044	Thank you, Mr. Đonlagić. I have no intention of really leading the polemics with you, but this morning after 20 seconds and after two warnings I took away the word, first of all, to Mr. Emrić, and then to you when you were in the same situation in the same way. And there were a few more overruns to 20 seconds, there were warnings and there was no taking away words. So, that was some criterion that is equal to all of you and I really ask you to help me, not to come into this situation, to respect the Rules of Procedure or to let us change it, to say, we will talk, we will discuss on all matters so much and so much, but while the Rules of Procedure help me to respect it, because I think that from the way the leaders of this House and the conduct and behavior in this House also depends a lot of things. We need to send the best possible... out of here on all matters. That's it, thank you. Mr. Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16045	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, when you mention the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure have defined 10 minutes, not only defined 5 minutes, but as soon as you see us here in front of you, you want to go home and cut our story space to 5 minutes. What can we say in five minutes on this subject? There are topics we can work on. So that's the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure are 10 minutes, and then it's... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16046	Thank you, Mr. Sokolović. The Rules of Procedure shall also be the right of the Chairman to act in the manner in which he is acting. All this is possible to change here in Parliament. As long as it's like that, I have to respect it. 43 The word has a lady, a distinguished representative of Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16047	I thank the chairman. Here, I'm going to refer a little bit to this, the summary opinion on the audit reports on one of these six institutions that received an opinion this year with an individual opinion with a reserve, which is the Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH. 51 recommendations are defined for this institution, so it really deserves to be discussed a little more. I was, as a member of the Commission in charge of customs and in the last few weeks, following that, what happens in the customs stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, tomorrow we are in Banja Luka in the central office and in the regional center of Banja Luka, so I am surprised and, behold, this report is trying to look at different eyes than I would normally look at. So the material has indeed been prepared very seriously, and I would say that these conclusions that our Commission on Budget and Finance have made, that is six conclusions concerning the ICC, the conclusions that should certainly be supported, but they should be followed. What's interesting is one of the conclusions is that, that's number four. – the programme of activities and measures listed in the previous point should be implemented and publicly published by the end of February 2017 at the latest. So, I wonder if we deadlines are really capable of imposing and respecting and what our powers or potential sanctions are if they are not met. But I support, therefore, these conclusions and I would say one thing, to say, the fact that today is going through our discussions several times, that many of these recommendations have been made, made, imposed, some have been realised, as our gentleman who addressed the Office of Audit has said, that it always begins with the simplest and easiest recommendations, and all the more complex, complex ones, so perhaps for the society and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina better, with a better result are left for later. Here, I will just remind you that in the... report, in the main findings and recommendations of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013, when it comes to the Directorate for Direct Taxation, there are two things I would like to repeat, to highlight them, because they repeat themselves this year. So, since 2013, I won't even mention it, I suppose it was the same, it's not possible that something was realized, and then it has given up again, it's about strengthening the fight against corruption, the development of internal control mechanisms and the creation of a basis for making the right decisions in order to improve an effective and effective, effective process of VAT control and forced collection... it is necessary to make and implement an action plan in the fight against corruption, etc. etc. We do see that even today this is not settled properly, when you look at the list of VAT debtors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, these are the millions of values of private enterprises, state-owned enterprises, which are therefore in debt to VAT. One subject which, as a member of the Commission, I have been able to track and investigate, the Ex-credit Agency is also, uh, talking about a company that has also owed 15 million marks for VAT over the past few years without saying how much damage it has done through the blockade of the Agency's work. Another thing I'd like to mention that's been dragging around for years through these remarks, and as far as I'm concerned, the IRS, it's about the management of goods taken away in customs procedures, I hope I have a little more time. So, that's something where we act like failed countes, taken away goods of any kind of collapse at warehouses, never solved the issues, never solved the question, and I don't even know who has to solve it if it's not initiated by the Department of Direct Taxation, the question of the economic value of the goods and what to do with it. What can be done? It can be bowed, can be used for humanitarian purposes, can be sold. So the 44 value that stands for decline is just something that loses the state as one society that otherwise has economic problems, where we very easily reach out for the duties, and at the same time we let things that are worth losing and that we're in a way that we put economically into a much better position than we've ever been. Therefore, unfortunately, in 2013 it is recommended that, in order to deal with the taken-off customs goods, the system office must, because it is not really regulated, and that competent institutions have not defined the objectives to be achieved by confiscation of customs goods. Because of the above, etc., etc., that I do not read any further. And in this report this year, the exact same point, the same remark. So, I don't know if we're going to have the same story of the same problem year by year, so I think if audit reports and recommendations aren't carried out, they don't follow and they don't sanction non-implementation, then we have one problem with an institution that we've put into office to monitor the work of state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16048	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, the guest of honor, called for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16049	I thank the chairman. I will just briefly look back at the time allowed for the debate, this, however, is essentially a colleague of Sokolović and colleagues of Đonlagić and You as chairman you are right, 10 minutes are foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, and the chairman has the right to shorten it, this one, but when the 73 points are united I would only suggest that in such situations it is not shortened. Because if we're discussing 73 points here right now, then 10 minutes would really be, that's where it doesn't need to be cut short. But anyway, I'm going back to this report now. This is indeed a great pleasure when two extremely serious institutions, the BiH Presidency and the BiH Institutions Audit Office, praise your work. And here, I'll say again, maybe just because some people here are particularly irritated, and the commendations refer to my law, the Law on abolishing commission fees during working hours, or limiting those fees to 475 marks a month. So at the last part of the agenda, I spoke, or read the praises that the BiH presidency sent to my law. Now I'm going to read the praises that my law has been referred to by the Audit Office. So on page 11. The Office for Auditing BiH institutions explicitly says – the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions has established restrictions on the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of the right to work on boards, supervisory and other bodies, as well as on the maximum amount of compensation that can be paid at monthly and annual level on this basis, so that expenditure under this basis should be rationalised in the next period. So it is two important, perhaps most important institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that talk about systemic issues in a systematic manner and praise the solution achieved in the country's most important report. I remind you, namely, that the delivery of the BiH presidency's report for the implementation of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions is an obligation imposed by the BiH Constitution. So, I'm not convincing anecdotes here, I'm not talking about women from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been reduced in compensation, I've already quoted and quoted the most relevant institutions, i.e. two of the most relevant institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and two of the most likely relevant reports in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 45 I also remind, and this is listed on the pages of this report too, that this is just one of the seven recommendations that have been implemented, and as counterpart Sokolović pointed out 53 has not been realised. However, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury recently delivered in the procedure a bill on salaries that exempts eight institutions, i.e. commissions and committees from these restrictions and literally exempts them from the law by giving them the right not only to charge the work of the working time again, but to determine for themselves the amount of compensation. And don't doubt if this goes past those fees will be enormous again, it will be measured again in thousands of marks instead of 475 as some say, how few, they say, are few. And now I'm curious if it happens then what's going to be the effect? In fact, if the Ministry of Finance insists on it next year, we'll have only seven commendations instead of these, as far as we have now, we'll have one less, and these seven are small, and the counterproduct of that on these even 53 criticisms we'll have one more, and these 53 is too much. So instead of being a priority to get hold of these 53 so you can start counting them one by one, you've caught these seven positives so... you seem to be counting them one by one. I really hope that you will give up on this, that this draft that the Council of Ministers sent you back to work to throw out this, these exceptions for these eight committees and committees and that we will let this law live. After all, I say again, it is the praises of the BiH Presidency and the BiH Institutions Audit Office, and I am extremely glad that what I said last year was affirmed in these reports in such a systematic and official way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16050	Thank you, too. Correction of the wrong allegation, the distinguished representative of Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16051	I thank the chairman. I have to correct the false allegations of an esteemed colleague of Arnaut who has repeated my law three times here. Fortunately, or unfortunately, none of us here individually can pass any law. I will also remind you that here, and ask my colleague not to belittle this House, because here are fellow law-reading MPs. The proposal you made, dear colleague Arnaut, to Parliament, was that membership in the boards of directors and supervisors should not be paid during working hours. And then we said here that there are possible manipulations, that it should be changed, that it should not be paid during working hours, but that it should also limit the total amount. And, therefore, to the fact that you have proposed all the members of the Finance and Budget Commission, including counterpart Isaković, have signed one amendment limiting compensation. Your bill did not provide for a limitation of compensation and I ask you not to treat everyone in this House with disrespect, and the law adopted this Parliament, not just you, or me, or any of us, but Parliament, both of his homes and this is Parliament's law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16052	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Damir Arnauti is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16053	Here you can see that I was right to irritate some especially when it comes to my law. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16054	I mean, thank you anyway. Mr. Predrag Kožul, the esteemed, and I apologize, we have, therefore, the esteemed representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16055	I used to think that my esteemed colleague Damir Arnaut would give up on this myself, me and only me, so I suggest that he take a college break to bring one of those cups out of that closet and give it to Damir Arnaut, who for all this is positive what happens in Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to be the only one responsible and responsible, disdaining all those colleagues who have contributed and voted, were position or opposition, to amend and supplement the law that has shown that has been successfully implemented and brought some positive results. So stop saying you're responsible for the positive things in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16056	Thank you very much for returning to the subject of the debate, these are the audit reports. Honorable representative, Mr. Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16057	My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, good afternoon, and I wish for successful work. Well, since I am in these papers, this one, defined as a rapporteur in front of the Committee on Finance and Budget relating to these points of the agenda, regardless of what some colleagues in the Committee have already said, some will still speak, I feel the need and as chairman of the Committee and as a representative to speak a few words on this important subject from the point of view of the work of the Committee on Finance and Budget on this subject. So, we have already said that we have received 73 audit reports this year, 67 of which with a positive opinion and six which have an opinion, expressed an opinion with the reserve. It seems to work quite nicely, especially when comparing such qualifications with qualifications at the level of entity audits. The other fact, already mentioned by counterpart Isaković, speaks of something else, so within these six institutions is over 50% of the state budget, so in some other way it paints these six opinions with the reserve. In doing so, I have to say that thanks to, here, work and the Office for Audition from year to year we had a trend in growth, a positive curve and a number of reports that have a positive opinion, but also this financial aspect, so in 2014, so, let's say, we crossed here, let's say, one limit, and in 2014, we had, and in financial terms, the number of positive reports crossed 50% of the budget. So if we look at it from that angle we have a certain stagnation in this year, and even a little back-up from 2014, and that's maybe what's not good. When I talk about the work of the Committee and what we wanted with this very extensive material and here's what's there, the one that's intensity. You have seen that this summary opinion consists of that and of three other attachments. The first attachment is six individual opinions concerning these institutions that had an opinion with the reserve, which we treated in a special way through a public hearing, which I think always has an effect. The second attachment is a table view of the recommendations concerning six of these institutions and the third attachment is a table picture of the recommendation which is related to the annual audit report 47. With these tables, we wanted to make up what was mentioned in the last point of our conclusions. In order to continue carrying out parliamentary supervision, the Committee on Finance and Budgets will use the tables set out in Annexes 2 and 3 of these conclusions for further six months of monitoring progress in implementing the recommendations of the audits given in the reports. So, this is what we should take very seriously this kind of parliamentary supervision, and I expect these six institutions and seven, because one of these tables concerns the Council of Ministers, very seriously taking these recommendations, these conclusions, this summary opinion and, in particular, these tables, and in some way because we have said that these tables will be publicly available, not only to parliamentarians, but also to the public, and there will be a crystallization of what the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing to increase financial discipline. I have to say that with these tables we in the Committee have doubted whether this form of the table where we literally overwrited the recommendations in the tableboard is the best, because in some ways when it's singled out in a table of some of these recommendations, let me put it that way, it's horny and it's hard to answer further on it. Some of these recommendations would be better grouped in response, as they refer to the same topic so that something further would be done, especially what would be possible with the same Commission and when adopting such opinions in the House of Peoples and the table would be something different. But I believe that it may be good, that institutions have two similar types of tables to deal with, not because of the table, but because of doing the recommendations, because what we can really say about these recommendations is that the level of implementation is low. And then I would only give a brief warning to those I, a fellow reviewer, would call them system recommendations. I will make recommendations out of them, which not only are systemic, but I would call them political, because they should first be the focus of this Parliament. For example, the Act on Foreign Affairs, for example, is a question of military property, for example, even the Law on Public Procurement which, not only the application of the Law, is an existing public procurement, but the existing Law on Public Procurement itself has, in my opinion, earned to be changed because it is common, and the Law itself is a common problem in implementing the recommendations. And that's the part where maybe we should focus in different ways, and that seems to me to be the responsibility of both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16058	Thank you. Dear representative, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16059	I thank you, Chairman. A good part of it was said by a esteemed colleague, Kožul. Unfortunately, those audit reports that are here with the reserve say that we have the same situation year after year, the auditors notice something good, find that there has been a serious breach of the Public Procurement Act, we also notice concrete cases that there have probably been violations of the Criminal Law, but then the Prosecutor's Office doesn't do anything, and then from year to year we have the same things that are repeated to us. I'm sorry that, and maybe that's the suggestion of the Office for Audit, that when we have such cases of violations of the Public Procurement Act that are withdrawn in the same case year after year, let's say the Framework Agreement on the Purchase of Personal Documents, which is why an investigation in the Prosecutor's Office is open. Maybe a little, so in the 2015 report we should look around and remind ourselves that we're not looking, it's not my problem I'm really going to find these audit reports and I've got a lot of it and I've got it recorded, but to look around and remind myself of the whole case's gene. And then what do we have? The prosecution didn't do its job, Bosnia and Herzegovina still suffers damage, then it happens to us that in this year the same bidder returns to the passport tender, we sit here crying auditors to us, we cry to the auditors. Or, for example, the subject of the construction of the Gradiška border crossing, 48 in last year's, the Directorate for indirect taxation in last year's audit report we had and saw that three times the tender was annulled, the same bidder in June 2014 and September 2016 delivered an offer of 2.1 million Marks higher, and then from the Direct Taxation Directorate tells us that because they were floods and the gravel was accumulated, they told us last year on the Commission, even though the floods were in July 2014, and this year's audit report shows that all the papers were not performed, that the situation was 790,000 marks of more unfinished works and that there will be overruns again of 450 thousand marks. So, the sum of the Sumarum was in a suspicious way spent about 2.5 million marks. So all that Mr. Arnaut saved on budget fees went to ljubiti Ćubić, or "Low Construction" in private pockets. Or let's just say, it's really a bit tragic, he says we do, and the administration has indirectly acquired software worth almost 9 million marks that are not in use because they didn't adopt sublaws. Watch out, 9 million marks worth of software stand because no sublegal acts have been adopted. And when I saw who was the contractor, i.e. who got the job, the company "Lanako" of the senior SNSD official, who again controls the Management Board of indirect taxation, I remembered how these institutions bought more macrosoft licenses from the same company in time than we have computers, so I remembered that in 2012 we bought software from the same company for electronic books and electronic prescriptions that we don't have today, so I remembered an audit report for the Clinical Centre in Banja Luka, where some software was also sold for which the auditors wrote that its value was not established, no property was established, no rights and obligations were established. So, I'm afraid that one at least thirty times as much as what Honorable counterpart Arnaut has brought to the budget has drawn out, here in these only two cases, two close authorities in Republika Srpska, one called "Lanako", the other is called "Lanako“. And that's how it's gonna be until the BiH Prosecution begins to do its job. The auditors, in any case, thank you, and theirs and ours are obviously just to talk and warn, and we will only solve problems when the BiH Prosecutor's Office begins to do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16060	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, Your Honor, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16061	No, actually, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 3, a colleague is not consistent, has an obligation in accordance with Article 3. So is my law or not my law, we now seem to have a finding that it is my law and that I saved it in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16062	Dear Representative, Mr. Zaim Backović has a word, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16063	Before I begin, the law is this Parliament, and the proposal is Damir Arnaut and there is no other Damir, it would not have been if it hadn't been for these MPs sitting here. You're the initiator, and the law is, and it's really enough of my law. There is no law to anyone, nor to the Council of Ministers, but to this House, he is adopted here. 49 And now a little bit on this review report. I am sorry, Mr. Chairman, that you are doing what you are doing, and that is to restrict us and deny us the right to speak fully of this report, because 5 minis can't be said anything, but nothing. If we start from the beginning and we'll see that there's something in this report that can be frustrating, like recommendations, and then he says, we recommend that the competent institutions speed up and end their activities without delay on the adoption of implementing acts, because something pays off that there's no basis, and it has to be, let's say, a supplement for cops. That's against the law, that's what it says here. Well, then, and so on. In all reports of wage regulation and compensation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we see the need for a wage system and so on. And now you could read a lot of things here. Some have entered the numbers, I don't want to talk about the numbers, I don't even want to talk about what the recommendations are respected and what's not, it's much more important to us what's happening and what's not in line with what we have under the law. And what we don't have under the law is obviously too much, and too much. I suggest that we as representatives here, and now I will send the proposal in writing to you gentlemen, that this in a set that you've given us to elaborate in five minutes, which is several thousand pages, it looks like we're like the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia and the Canton of Sarajevo to review several thousand pages and make a decision in one day that there isn't some or some or some kind of responsibility to someone, we pass this on to the gentlemen and that we finally get a copy of the answers, the ones that should be dealing with, is there any kind of abuse here. There or there isn't. The law on public procurement, it should be called a law on public fraud, simply has to be called that. Look at how many tenders have been annulled because that company and that company didn't pass, and then the renovated and then passed. Let's not list what's been annulled you haven't even looked at, because it's not realized, you've reviewed what's been realized and you don't know that it's been annulled because of the companies that received it in the second subsequent procedure. There's one sea. Once again, you give us too little time, here you have to separate from the reports to the reports, they differ, this is how it turns out that everyone is working to keep Bog, because you are always focusing attention on what is wrong, or those who are speaking, and this is not how you can talk about reports that are actually the withdrawal of money from the pockets of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because this is the money of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just one example I compared, I have 10 seconds, one example just, the amount of coffee per report of the indirect tax administration that was imported doesn't match the amount of coffee that was sold. How is that possible? It's more immeasurably sold than it's registered to be imported. Where did the one that was sold come from, magically someone answer us, just one piece of information. And so in order, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16064	Thank you. Dear representative, Mrs. Hanka Vajzović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16065	Thank you, Chairman. Here, it's already been said on several occasions that we really can't read so many pages, 70 institutions audit report, and it's fortunate that we can't, I mean, the man's just getting jacked up, it's not good for health, if we go in to read everything that's with the use of the car, what about the phones, with this, with what, everything that the audit report has been found, what's been seen. So I'm not going to talk about a lot of things that would be worth talking about here, I just want to set two examples as a case study. One refers to customs terminals, so Administration 50 for indirect taxation, which, according to the Report, has been demanding since the beginning of its work, has therefore not charged around 2 million and 600 of the owners of customs terminals and is added that regulations and implementing acts governing the management and functioning of customs terminals are not based on carried out analyses of efficiency and economics and anything, are not clear, accurate, leaving space for free interpretation. Of course, it's not unknown that most of the terminals are private, that they're not owned, so, indirect taxation management, and we also know that many of them are inaccessible, not to say, in some terrible state. The report says they do not meet some of the prescribed conditions, such as euphemism, and it is known to be a crisis. It is recommended in the Report of the Direct Taxation Authority to improve the management of customs terminals, not mentioned, seems to me, here border crossings and should be added. That's one case. The second case also relates to the Civil Aviation Directorate, says – the collection of revenues for passengers and goods in civil aviation has not been achieved in 2015, i.e., quote, the Directorate is in January 2016. The Ministry of Transport and Communications submitted a proposal for a decision on the amount of fees mentioned by aircraft operators, but in the Directorate they have no information that the Ministry forwarded the proposal for a decision to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, the revision concludes that, by delaying the application of the said Decisions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015, it did not collect revenue of 2 million on this basis. According to other items, it's not much, it doesn't sound like, here 2 million, there's 2 million and 600, and then the question is, is there anywhere, and that's why I've singled out some two cases, the specific culprits who didn't forward it, who didn't apply it by name and last name and, of course, whether there's any such sanctions in us. Without that, we can continue to worry, irritate, investigate, criticise and behave, and, of course, wait for the coming new audit report that we know how much it means and how much it is, that I don't know what it would be then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16066	Thank you. Since there are no more reports I'm closing the hearing and giving the engagement a break by 3:00 p.m., we will proceed at 3:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work. We're going to the 79th agenda, that's Ad. 79. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No 01,02-02-1-2914/16, of 15.11.2016. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am announcing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, more specifically its Article 178(2), where it is envisaged, therefore, to discuss the Bureau's proposals, as stated in the announcement of this point. We don't have members of the presidency. So their presence is mandatory if we want to respect our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16070	Secretary, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16071	Good afternoon. Hello, everyone. The Bureau, therefore, delivered the budget on 15.11. In his letter, the Bureau said that, since the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is responsible for making Budgets in institutions and international obligations for '15. A year,... for meetings of your committees, or homes, besides representatives of the Bureau to call a representative of the Ministry. They note that the rapporteur at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples session will be Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda, Minister of Finance and Treasury, who will give all necessary information to representatives, i.e. to the envoys, regarding the budget. So, the Bureau has authorized and tasked the Minister of Finance to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16072	Thank you very much. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16073	So I listened to the secretary, but here I am, if you want me to quote this point 178. – at the meetings under consideration of the draft legislation proposed by the Bureau, which addresses the issue of presidency competence, at least one member of the BiH presidency is required to attend. Here you have written, therefore, the name of the point that it is a proposal from the BiH presidency, as it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16074	Thank you very much. We're moving on with our work. Discussion, honourable representative, Mr. Damir Bećirović. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16075	I'm on behalf of the club looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16076	At the request of Mr. Damir Bećirović, president of the DF Club, paused for 15 minutes. And for the record, we'll continue at 3:32 p.m. precisely. The president of the DF Club, Mr. Bećirović, asked for a break. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16078	... I see there are still no MPs and we need to discuss the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it shows the government's relationship with everything that's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16079	Thank you very much. The debate is open whether, therefore, the Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations, I have read this announcement, we have, therefore, amendments, sir, we adopted this Law in the first reading, amendments by Mr Denis Bećirović, Damir Bećirović and Salke Sokolović. This is an amendment debate, so please, who wants to talk? Mr. Damir Bećirović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16080	Thank you. Here, I will try as quickly as possible, because it is about amendments which, unfortunately, did not get enough votes in the Finance and Budget Commission. With these amendments, I tried to correct some of the things that the BiH Institutions' Audit Office has constantly warned us about, so I allocated those funds to other positions from the position of travel costs. This is about savings when it comes to travel costs of approximately 1,390,000 KM. In addition, my proposal is to abolish the reserve for members of the Bureau and the chairman and vice-president of the Council of Ministers and to focus on other matters where much more is needed. There are also some, another part, meaning again what the BiH Institutions Audit Office warns us about, when paying for space rentals and one part of the money needed by BHDCA, means it is also re-measured for other purposes. This funding schedule is about funds of more than 2 million KM. My amendments were planned to be distributed as follows: – 583,000 KM would go for the Ministry of Defence and for the reconstruction and maintenance of BiH Armed Forces facilities, because we ourselves are aware that there is a need for additional funds in the area. And this was also the request of the Ministry of Defence in that area which was not met, so here is the only way, although this, although small funds can be helped in that part; the second is a grant, meaning that a grant would go through 53 Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of 540,000 KM, and would be a grant for non-profit organisations dealing with environmental protection, with a special emphasis on contaminants with large bars. So it's an aero-pollution that is particularly evident in these winter months and, especially, here, in Tuzla from which I come, so that these funds could be a drop in the sea and with these resources could be improved and there could be a certain improvement in the situation, at least through education and through better thinking..., because we are witnessing a large number of increases in malignant diseases and other things that are very..., and no one is concerned about it; we also have a grant that would be placed through the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of 500,000 KM, which would go to finance parents' homes in Bosnia and Herzegovina that serve to accommodate difficult children and their parents, because there is also a very active topic because of the destruction of the health system and everything that leads to, means what we have in that segment. We also lack funds for this purpose; and also, as a fourth part, the funds would be spent, one part of the funds, in this case the same amount of 512,000 KM, would be transferred to the Srebrenica Memorial Centre – Potocari, for better functioning of the Memorial Centre, because we are witnesses that the Centre also works with a minimum of funds, and collective jazzes and funerals are planned in the coming years. So, it has to be ensured to improve the financing of the Memorial Center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16081	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16082	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I will briefly explain the amendments that I restored today for the plenary session, along with my colleagues Mehmedović, Šepić, Ahmetović and Emrić. The reason is, we believe that the 2017 Framework Budget stemmed from the Global fiscal framework for the period '17-'19. of 950 million, or 750 from indirect taxes is insufficient for quality financing of all needs of state institutions. We propose an increase in the Framework Budget, given that the allocation to the Single Account for indirect taxation will continuously increase funds, and never since 2008, this increase in funds has been directed towards financing of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is an increase of 32.270,000 and we intend to allocate these funds to the following budget items: So, the Ministry of Defence is 21 million in a way that increases salaries to soldiers, officers and soldiers, since they are damaged by the adoption of the Law on Salaries and Compensations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions compared to employees and civil servants. In this regard, here, we propose fairer coefficients, from acts of soldiers to acts of brigades, is the planned funds that are sufficient in gross amounts. Furthermore, the increase in energy and utility expenditure as well as reconstruction and investment maintenance in a certain amount, that I do not explain everything in detail in figures. Furthermore, some of these funds, in our opinion, should be directed towards the Srebrenica Memorial Centre – Potocari Memorial features and mesars for victims of genocide from '95. In the years since the identification and burial of the victims of genocide from '95. the year is not yet finished, it is ongoing, and additional funding needs to be provided in 2017. One share of the 102.970 funds, not 102 million, but 3 million for better quality resolution of the Maljevac border crossings, Velka Klajuda and Tržaščka Raštela. Furthermore, 1,750,000 for, according to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, the way in which police officers and law enforcement agencies also increase salaries by correction for the simple reason that employees and civil servants are more paid than 54 police officers and we have one process of discrimination and violation of the law, where for the same job, the same training is not paid by all employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in the same way. Also projected coefficients along with gross wages in such a way that these funds are planned to access the coefficient correction after the adoption of the budget. Also one sum of 5,950,000 for the Border Police and for these, the Police Body Coordination Directorate. As well as the amendment in which we propose to delete the position (3) and (4) in Article 17, because we believe that no individual in Bosnia and Herzegovina has the right to grant budgetary resources for intervention use, in particular to share it according to its own criteria and decisions. We expect colleagues and fellow MPs to understand our intention, to support us and thus adopt the amendments and thus correct the proposed budget, and all in the interest of strengthening the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16083	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16084	I thank the chairman. I would like to join my colleague Sokolović's discussion and continue to explain the amendments here, and I would refer to the amendment number V where we propose that the total amount of the budget of the Directorate for Direct Taxation increase by 3 million KM and the total amount would be 102,970,000 KM according to our proposal, in such a way as to increase the economic code for the purchase of buildings by the said amount of 3 million KM and its amount would be 11,538,000 KM. The reason we are proposing to increase this code of purchase of buildings is that on page 141 of the Budget's reasoning, under the term of procurement of buildings for the Direct Taxation Directorate, no funds are provided for the reconstruction of existing facilities and the addition of adequate road infrastructure at the border crossings of Maljevac – Velika Klajuda and Tržačka Rastela – Kordonski Leskovac. Although there has been a lot of debate in this House about the need to resolve the permeable power at the Maljevac border crossing – Big Kladuma, here in this year too, has not provided for any necessary means to improve the permeable power at this border crossing and finally solve the problem of big crowds on weekends and on holidays when a large number of our citizens working in Western Europe are coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are very dissatisfied with the status of this border crossing and waiting from 1 to 3 hours is hardly acceptable, large columns are being created. We have talked a lot about this in this House, but in the budget of the Direct Taxation Authority there is no intended financial means to improve the status of this border crossing. This dom also adopted an initiative proposing the retegorisation of the border crossing of Tržačka Rastela – Kordonski Leskovac to the international border crossing for road traffic of passengers. Certain activities have been initiated, however, nothing has been foreseen in the budget for the expropriation process, i.e. the purchase of land needed for the reconstruction of this border crossing, so it was necessary to intervene in the way we did with amandman v, and I hope that it will be supported by colleagues and colleagues in this House. Thank you very much. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16085	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16086	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Discussing the budget, or speak now, is something that probably won't give a result, because we're where we are, and we need to adopt it. But with a budget like this, we should be told something that will allow for real change to take place next year while we are in this House's wake. We know by the structure of the state, by the way that it is arranged that the state budget can neither be developmental, nor incentive, nor promote agriculture and economy, nor promotes birth, nor promotes development in education, nor encourages and so we go in order, so we have no, no matter what the laws are called at the state level, in the further hierarchy of any influence on what happens in entities and cantons. But also we here, I have to put this down a little bit, it's very difficult these are big materials, we should think about why, which is why, which is why we keep keeping this number of institutions, agencies, directorships, commissions and I don't know what they don't need anymore, and they're not taking or giving any authority to anyone. It's very interesting, let's say I tried to search it a little bit, so we have as an example just forensic and anti-doping agencies as separate institutions, and both of them can do both and work both. Why they exist would be interesting if we could get that straight. The special question is, I don't even know what it's called anymore, I can't remember, the directorate or the agency or I don't know how to get concessions anymore. Whose jurisdiction is the concession, who gives concessions and when a concession is given at a state level, or is it just a registration service? If it was a record service, it could have been one employee, and we're cutting costs right now, in the context of, say, the Ministry of Economic Relations, because it can't give concessions at the state level, nor does it have the authority. You got it, huh? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] How did they give them away? With consent. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16089	Thank you, too. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16090	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I'm in this group of MPs that had this one group of amendments. So, when you read the amendments and you see approximately what intensity is, you'll see one first thing that we want through the budget, a projected budget, to show what we as Parliament and what we as a policy think about the state we live in, which we also represent about the institutions that need to be the key engine of this country's development and the key engine of the European perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one part of the amendment refers to our intensity to strengthen institutions, the other part is to one more serious fiscal responsibility in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that in 2012, when we adopted this fiscal framework on the means that it was then, we were present at the Directorate for indirect taxation, at which point 750 million marks were planned for the institutions of the state. Meanwhile, much more funding is based on such a way of collecting, and unfortunately, the resources allocated to state institutions remain the same, which says, therefore, that this relationship and this size and that, the support to the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been reduced by a percentage compared to what we had several years ago. I think our policy should be to strengthen the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and those of the capacities that will carry this European story on Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, strengthening institutions, European capacity, fiscal responsibility and one part in this story, this one, will talk about Srebrenica, says counterpart Sadik Ahmetović. You saw that, therefore, our intensity that when we talk about law enforcement agencies, about cops, when we talk about soldiers, about our people working in the Armed Forces, that this structure of people who are at this point, if you look at relationships with all other levels, worst paid, have some kind of worst status, and, in my opinion, if not, therefore, evenly, then it should be much better than it is with, say, others. On the other hand, space should also be opened and shown in the budget that we want to treat these people and that they have a position that they actually deserve. In this regard, this one part of the amendment relating to salary increases and an increase in income from that category of people. 57 I said earlier, no one, in my view, should have the right to use the funds, whether he chaired the Parliament or the president of the state, that without any clear criteria and without a clear framework share our common resources in the way that has been done so far, and I think that no one in that sense will be, even if this amendment is accepted, damaged on the other hand, but even more we enter one, I would say, position where we will have better fiscal responsibility, greater transparency, greater trust in the institutions, so that this part of the amendment is related to that fiscal responsibility. And what I've been working on for a long time, where I've talked about a lot, now that's what my colleague jasmin Emrić was talking about, so we're opening up here certain issues related to some particular electoral units, related to people's problems, let's say, that we represent, here I come from this constituency where people as one of the main problems have this problem of crossing the border crossings. Here, the chairman suggests we come from the same constituency, of course. So people have a problem waiting between an hour and two at the border crossing to get into or out of the country. So, at least what we're expecting right now is to allow these people unlimited, as I would say, transitioning and allowing them to have a decent opportunity to get out of their own country and enter their own country. We have talked about this story several times, and here we adopt the initiative, Parliament in charge, are the conclusions, but after you've made that budget you don't recognize it in the budget. Because if you say it's necessary, let's say, you're going to open a new tape so that instead of an hour these people wait 20 minutes, which is, like, one, more dignified, more polite, etc., and then you don't realize it through that budget. Because before the story was already adopted the budget so we couldn't do it in such a way, that it's just saying that we, that what we are doing here in the Parliamentary Assembly, that our institutions, our governments are essentially not being followed to the end. So I would especially ask you here, so around this part of the amendment, we take special care of the reason why it is a priority for these people when it comes to the border crossing that is the most frequent in the country, this velik Kladuša – Maljevac, which, for example, through which some standard of these waitings and these crowds is somewhere between an hour and two every day, half a million people in six, two million people in six months cross that border crossing. The country's most engrossed area, so it is, because it is not just a landscape and it is not just some local topic and local problem of the region, but it should be a problem and a commitment for all of us. So, this border crossing here, we've predicted 2 million marks to ensure the construction of that infrastructure, to solve these impasses, and the other part is also related to this border crossing, it's about the second one, putting into operation and opening, that is to make that infrastructure at the second demarcated crossing of Tržačk Raštel. We've adopted here the initiatives that, if we didn't recognize it in the budget, then all we've been doing here so far is saying that We had no proper and correct intentions. [[Employee is warned on time]] I ask you in that sense to understand these appeals and to support, uh, to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16091	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Mr Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16092	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. 58 I will say a few sentences, first of all, that I will thank my colleagues who have signed the amendment, and Mr Bećirović and all those who have signed this amendment for the Potocari Memorial complex, and I will say a few sentences about it. Memorial, it's true that I am the head of the Board of Directors of the Memorial complex that has its two parts, has the sacral and this museological. And this part of the sacral part was once run by a foundation that provided all the money for burial and gravestones to victims, and in that part of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina had no financial obligations and that money was incorporated by law, which was passed by a high representative in 2007, in a law that could only be spent for those purposes. After that, however, there is an award of the complete space of the battery factory to the Memorial complex and it has been done complete, designing with, idea solution and all that should be done by law in order to continue building and equipping the museum section. And this second part goes to some sort of its course mainly thanks to foreign donations that are not in any great amount to that complex at some point recently... We believe, and in all meetings with donors, with those coming from outside, there is always a question of how many states Bosnia and Herzegovina participates in these projects. So far, from 2007 until this year, we have had no room to say that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has financed not a single mark in terms of capital expenditure and the continuation of the construction of this museum. We have done three or four projects for the truth, and in February we will complete the museum project thanks to the donation of the Dutch government. So here I am begging you after 10 years of the law, after 10 years of the Memorial complex being part of it, because it is a state institution, it would be good if the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina at least turned a little towards the institution that is its. The memorial complex, if you look at these audit reports, mostly has the best report and never has a single brand for capital investment. And you have an institution of state that has, or has had, negative reports, and each year they are assigned capital investments according to a set programme. We, therefore, have good people outside Bosnia and Herzegovina who pay attention to the Memorial complex and have, let's say, the need to help or feel help. I use this pay phone to thank the mayor of Zagreb and all those who called for a donor dinner a few days ago in Zagreb and all those who were there and who were in their own personal contribution, here, gave some help to the Memorial complex, but even then I had no room to say that the state of Bona and Herzegovina did not, how much it gives and whether it gives. So I had these questions from reporters in Zagreb. Therefore, it would be very good and very important to change this practice, at least for a moment with this problem and to adopt one of these amendments proposed by either counterpart Bećirović or this group of MPs, because I am afraid that with this dynamic of raising money outside Bosnia and Herzegovina we will never finish this job. And I can't believe that when you look at everything that money is spent on in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at all levels, there's no room to be allocated or this part is within the framework of the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, to give, therefore, to the institution that is state-owned. To all those who vote for this amendment, I thank you very much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16093	Thank you. Dear Representative, Mr. Amir Fazlić, president of the SDA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16094	Well, I've been thinking about whether or not I should answer on behalf of the SDA Club. I expected that prior to the statement on the amendments of the finance minister... 59 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So the Minister of Finance will plead. Okay, I thought it wouldn't happen, but I'm glad he will, but if I didn't call twice, this, since the finance minister is going to give us one explanation, because I've been listening to that argument on the Finance Commission, and when most of these amendments are looked at, they have nothing to say no to, they're good amendments, they're, they're amendments for which we, too, which we haven't proposed amendments, probably a similar structure of amendments, and maybe even more and more than one budget of these funds are built on this budget. At the time when we were in opposition and I was as an MP, not knowing then all the essence of the Fiscal Framework and the legal regulation of the Fiscal Council and everything, we proposed a lot of these amendments. I was almost offered a reply by the Minister of Finance to whom I have publicly set – how much unspent funds in these budget years behind us, and then I got the answer, even the structure, if it were somewhere now, the minister can fix me, uh, it would be over 140 million marks, and today, colleague Salko Sokolović has found to us that only from 2015 to 2016, and we see it there, carry me somewhere 50 million, 60 million. So, even what we're predicting, we don't spend. Normally, it is once again a structure of capital projects, it has its own specific consumption procedure and a certain problem why not spend everything and then we talked about it and my question was – how to put these funds into operation, because really Bosnia and Herzegovina is not so rich that 140 million is waiting. What is the essence of this discussion of mine. So, I can't be kidnapped that these amendments are good, but if today we're going to have Budget Bosnia and Herzegovina, there's something stronger, if we're going to get Bosnia and Herzegovina today. I think we also want this to be a stronger reason, and that's why we need to support today's Budget of the Presidency in which the Council of Ministers also played a role and all the budget users and I think we should adopt this budget today. Some things, we have practice, we know that some things can be fixed, especially here where we are all sensitive to the Potocari Memorial Centre, so I would ask the Ministers to explain to us, because there are amendments here that, for technical reasons, cannot pass, which have their shortcomings, there are amendments that violate the fiscal, global fiscal framework and for these reasons, the SDA Club will support the Budget in the sense that the Presidency has proposed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16096	Thank you very much. The word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16097	Well, I didn't plan on it, and here we are at the Finance and Budget Committee on two occasions discussing the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and perhaps invited by some debates I wanted to look at this Budget from another angle from which we usually don't look at ever. Look, the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 is a billion and 961 million marks, in 2015 that budget was a billion and 720 million marks, 240 million marks of difference due to the structure of the external debt in this, for 2017, I apologized for the year. I have the impression, I'm relatively short at this level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, look at the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina quite well live within their budget framework and that there, we talked about this in previous agenda points, there is room for savings, and for 60 rationalisation, and for a different, maybe different way of spending. But these 240 million marks of difference in 2017 will be terribly missing from lower levels of government, entities, counties, local levels. When we sit here and discuss the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I really think we also need to take care of it and I think it is good to fit into that fiscal budgetary framework that we have, among other things, and for this reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16098	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bećirović, a respected representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16099	I just have to briefly replicate my colleagues, Kožul, says that this funding will be missing 260 million, so we have an increase in public debt and that is an increase where 99% of the entities are in debt, the Federadija of BiH is in debt and Republika Srpska is in debt. And that's the money that increases the nominal debt, because we ratified those contracts. Entities and governments working there should work a little on fiscal discipline and reduce borrowing, rather than transferring and talking here about some debt of the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, which is not true and is not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16100	Thank you very much. Since no one's answering their words anymore, I'm closing the debate. I call on the Minister of Finance, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda to declare the amendments on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16101	Hello again, everyone, and thank you very much for a proper debate that seems to me to be following this whole adoption process of the budget. In agreement with kolegij, here's the deal that I'm reading, and you won't mind me saying that if I just do a few things again, I'll think easier and thinking no matter what your final decisions are, because you're the ones who decide. I'll just mention how budget-making and its adoption must be the most complex and responsible document from the least to the largest state in the world and perfectly normal to face the interests, resolutions, priorities and all that goes through it. It is clear that this also causes public attention, you MPs, and so I say in advance that I am grateful to all of you, both for the commissions and here, which, unlike some last years, were framed some kind of discussion and nothing went beyond, I would say, at least that border of decency and even big political proof. I'm just saying again that we tried the Ministry this year to really do everything that we don't have problems of essential nature. As the budget is passed, I will repeat once again, although some of you have probably listened to me, that the first budgetary instruction we gave on 28.01.2016, second instruction on 29.06, the consultation of the budget users lasted from 22.08 to 23.09, after consultation we remained a budget requirement greater than 140 million from the budgetary framework established on the Fiscal Council which, by the way, consists of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers of Finance, two entity prime ministers and two finance ministers and the governor of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance, respecting the calendar, sent the budget to the Council of Ministers and, therefore, opened several sessions to adopt it unanimously at the end of 03.11. 61 He was directed to the Bureau on 04.11. The Bureau adopted him and directed him to Parliament after discussions and consultations on 15.11. And unlike the announcements and said the last day will be adopted, because it must have always been this practice, here you are witnessing that today is still a second reading, because the first reading has passed 30.11. and 14 days have passed since. I have to say that, now I'm going to general some things, and then the statement, you're looking for a statement. So, a large part of the amendment treats the introduction and allocation of funds without budget users at all, and I have spoken much more on the committees, etc. So, when you do your own budget on how we're gonna treat someone if you don't ask for funds, I don't know why we're gonna assign them. There's, uh, a lot in the discussion of what's been recognized and what happens to me as a person and someone who lives and works here likes to adopt, but you have something that's predetermined. And today, at the Committee, we voted, or the members of the Committee, of the individual amendment, and it seems to me that there was the greatest responsibility, and it seems to me that mine, my view is that it should no longer be touched. And I would suggest at the end, in advance, that the amendments be rejected with all understanding. So, amendments on the expenditure side, what a group of MPs are headed by a gentleman, a respected gentleman, a friend of mine, Sokolović and his team are justified, but this expenditure substance is based on the income side, and this requires an increase in the global fiscal framework, which directly violates Article 6. Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH. It's simple, it's either you or change the law or you end up on a fiscal council to get an increase then it's the basis for that, and it is, so it wouldn't really be about individual amendments. So as far as that goes, as far as this biggest part of the amendment is concerned. Mr BećirovićDamir amendments, first of all, I don't know if he discussed them, so there are some, I'd say, technical inaccuracies, but I wouldn't really be discussing it now because they were delivered before the beginning of the session, but if you just see Table 2 and 3 you'll see that it's not income and cost-balanced. Also, this, Mr. Bećirović, the second, was giving amendments and they really came in time and I won't what, he corrected me at the beginning, uh, those sessions of the Committee when he said let's not talk about some kind of technicality being brought to the budget. I tried what I could, but I'm really moving away from everything and I'm kind of considering it on the professional side. So, as the College asked, although I have this right, if I were to declare myself I would suggest that these amendments be rejected, denied, with one note that all during the fiscal year there is time to repair, because unlike last year, when we stayed at 499 thousand current reserves and we couldn't even give the prosecution intervention funds for recovery and excavations, we now have this space. And what is definitely, and you know that we've come to the signing of an agreement with Russia and that we've already made decisions, and I've explained that here at first reading, where everything is focused on capital investments. And I understand that I and Mr. Emrić, and Šepić and everything else, but I have to be here, although I am the chairman of the Management Board, that everything you say about border crossings and the rest has not been contained in the basic budget request of the Administration, but in the annex, and that part of the non-execution of capital investments couldn't have been done, because there were no basic preconditions, so, of course, no building permits, but... land authorisation and the rest has not been done. Here, I would like so much, really not wanting anything, I said the budget in all countries is causing attention, I think that this is the second budget where I sit alone from the Council of Ministers, it seems that everyone's attention except for members of the Council of Ministers is bigger and therefore thank you to the representatives for being correct at least in handling, and in amendments, and in everything else to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16102	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. 62 Dear colleagues and colleagues are moving to the 80th item of the agenda, that is, Ad. 80. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2194/16, of 05/08.2016.) The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted at the 37th session of the House of Representatives, held on 09.11.2016 and at the 24th session of the House of Peoples held on 22.11.2016. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and the Joint Commission was formed both at home to achieve the same text of the Law. The Joint Commission submitted a report on 07.12.2016. The Commission agreed on the identical text of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina by adopting amendments adopted at the House of Peoples session. There's no discussion here. Let's move on with the agenda, move on to point 81, that's Ad. 81. Appointment of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people (rank-list of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency), material number: 01.2-29-2889/16, since 11.11.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, considering I'm reporting for the first time, I'm welcoming everyone present. That the likeness above the ability of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society is witnessing, among other things, this rank list. I will refer to the Croatian people's ranking list for the Public TV Service Management Board. And I'm going to point out that neither of these candidates is a member, nor is my party's sympathiser, which is clear to everyone, because they wouldn't be on that list, but I know some of the life paths of some of them. And if the citizens want to be informed about the curricula of individual candidates, they could only find data for the fourth-ranked Mr. Drago Martinović on the website, and I must admit that his CV is very impressive. It primarily states that it is an active participant of the Homeland War, and in the last election of ministers, etc., I saw that it is much more important than the professional cookout itself and the area from which it comes, the doctor is a doctor of science, political sciences with a large number of scientific papers, many of which are from the field of the TV service, has experience in the field of journalism, administrative and ardent committees. And by reading it, I'm interested in what, apart from similarity, led to the formation of one of these rank lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16106	Thank you very much. The word has an esteemed representative, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have received this material in which we have practically a ranking list which has been proposed and which, as such today, passed on to the Commission which, as proposed here by this ranking list, passed on to Parliament. I am only interested now – based on which procedure, how and how these three names are now proposed. I'd like to know whether and if it's foreseen according to procedure, or if it's supposed to be the result of some debate, or if we should generally vote on a ranking list the way the ranking list was proposed. I'm very interested in that, so I'd like you to give me an answer, if you could give me an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16108	Thank you very much. If I'm going to, so we've received a ranking from the Communications Regulatory Agency, we've been given three times three names. All these three names are names that can be selected by Parliament and can be selected and there is no ban on that list that has arrived here by any name. That's the law, so we've been explained to ourselves in the College, based on the consultations we've had, so we've decided to propose a list of these three names. Here, that's my answer. 64 Does anyone else want to give answers? Mr. Damir Arnaut, the esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16109	I thank the Honorable Chairman. You see, so we really don't have any candidates from any nation, but I can't say on the business side that I'm happy with the answer. So we have, come on the RAC Council, okay, but Parliament is second. The commission phase has passed, and with most of this list, the Commission has forwarded the House to a further decision. I don't see the business relationship that the College made in this case and delivered to the other House. I would certainly see a business relationship if the commission had done it, the competent Commission for Transport and Communications. However, if the Commission is considering this issue by the Rules of Procedure and the Commission forwards the list to the House for further decision, I, behold, now I ask you again as a College, if I should also be asked by the Secretary, to tell me – which member of the Rules of Procedure has made changes on this list, so that we can then continue to show ourselves, because I suppose if you are now telling us this should be followed by an act, I hope you are not only doing it orally, as the College is speaking, as a body. If you are doing so on the basis of someone, which is in the title of the act, on the basis of which a member of the Rules of Procedure is providing us with a ranking which is different from the ranking list established by the RAC Council and by the Commission responsible, which is more important, because I would really not question anything that the competent Commission has completely reversed the list, so the Commission can do so, but I am interested in which member of the Rules of Procedure is specifically preferred to amend this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16110	So everything I knew I told you on behalf of the College and I have no further explanations. Mr. Predrag Kožul, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16111	I'm sorry in advance that I might be part of the agenda, but it's in the context of the agenda. We received materials related to this Management Board in a short period of time, we received an answer to the question asked by counterpart Pandurević and we received this letter regarding EBU sanctions according to BHRT. From the answer asked by counterpart Pandurević, we have seen that BHRT Management Board members at the same time are members of the Board of Directors of the System and that despite the bad financial situation on public TV services in some segments of business, this service behaves as drunk billionaires, as it is said. That, this one, can also be said for these boards of directors, where just those people who have given us Parliament's responsibilities for the bad financial situation on BHRT have been very nicely attached to two tentacles, so to speak, for the entire four years. So what I'm saying is in one other direction, to try exactly as the Council of Ministers will warn us about this situation with sanctions against BHRT, according to the Public TV Service, we try to work towards BHRT's administration in this part, maybe it's not opportunized that two very decent fees from the same people get for a very similar job, I think. I'm really not jealous of whose receipts and, I say, I'm not a fan of a law here called the Arnaut laws, but I'm almost tempted to say that it would be good to rent our colleague Damir Arnaut a little bit in BHRT, and it might be useful to them and it won't hurt us either. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16112	I'm just asking to keep an eye on when we're talking, thank you for your discussion, we're talking about our colleagues. I have the right to ask you to do so, legitimately, because I know what it means when it comes to the person of the representative, I am an example of it here in Parliament and don't ask you to, I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16113	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16114	You don't need to, thank you, I understand you completely, I'm just asking you to, uh, keep an eye on each other. The esteemed representative, Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, has a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16115	Thank you very much. In fact, I don't know, it is partly the correction of the wrong allegation, since I have now seen that it was not present at the session of the distinguished representative Novaković, and he was chaired by the Commission, I wanted only to be a member of the Commission, chaired there, to say – it was not included in the lists, so we did not discuss the order in the lists, nor did we confirm, nor did we deny, but we only took to the knowledge of what we were, with a comment that I personally voted against, because it was a discrepancy between the order and what we read in the CV, so it was strange and I didn't support it. Most of them did, with a note of receiving knowledge of what the RAC did in such a ranking. So we didn't go into whether that list was right and that we plead individually, so then even in the Report of ours there wasn't a word about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16116	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16117	So that they don't get me wrong, I don't know anyone from these suggestions, or I've seen them on TV, so personal acquaintance doesn't mean anything to me right now, but I also don't think it's correct from a fellow who, perhaps what's now being said here, should have said to an enlarged colleague that we have that information. My impression was, and so we presented it at the Club, as if it were the rank lists and that we would declare ourselves here on the ranking list, and in the meantime at the Expansive College, which was extremely finished, the College did not meet the Extended College that the College would have a proposal and that the proposal would be that and that. That's what it's all about. So none of these candidates I prefer, nor am I against them, but I think that for the sake of correctness it should have been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16118	Thank you, Mr. Đonlagić. 66 So this isn't a good way to have us, we have nine candidates, we have three choices, one from each nation. So we got a letter from the Regulatory Agency, and this isn't the first time that we have lists of several candidates and that, on a proposal then, the College, based on consultations within the framework of candidates who meet the conditions, we vote for the list, we suddenly choose all three, because we know what that can mean if we choose one, the other we don't choose, etc. Here, that's an explanation, and based on the consultation, so I'm not saying anything by heart, and here I really can't, I can't tell you anything else, it's just like that. And you know it as well as the College does. That's it, thank you. Excuse me. Dear Representative, Mr. Mirsad Mešić, excuse me, distinguished representative, Mr. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16119	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I mean, to be perfectly clear, we don't like that we haven't been consulted at all on this issue and it's kind of vague, and then I'm also having a vague and business base, so let me be clear, as a club, that's what we're talking about. And it really needs to be taken seriously by the entire College. That's the point here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16120	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. I've been told that the consultation was done, I'm not the man who ever said a single sentence here without standing behind it. So, I'm asking you to, uh, keep this in mind. I would never, and I'm now speaking for the College, have made any moves, and I never said that based on the consultation that it wasn't, that I wasn't told that a consultation was made. And don't, if you want, we can keep going, but I don't think we should move on. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To be clear, the SDP Club will not support any candidates on any ranking list, but I am quite surprised by your, Mr. Chairman, name that is not in the context of the Law on Public TV Broadcasts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's actually about this, I don't know where you got the right to make a selection at the College when the Law on the Public TV System clearly states that the RAC Council determines the ranking list and two candidates propose this House. How did you get to that without listening to their rank list? I, of course, don't know. So, I'm surprised by that kind of way and, look, I'm actually proposing that we vote on a list that was delivered by the RAC.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16122	Okay, and that's a suggestion. Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Mr. Zaim Backović has a word. Here you go. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16123	Of course, here I am immediately saying that in front of the party represented by BPS, Sefer Halilović will vote either abstentionly or against only because the way we are given is the way he is. I know some people, honest people from what the RAC passed on, I know them personally, I'm not like my colleague, I know them personally. Interestingly, with all three lists, both Serbian and Croatian and Bosniak people, I know people, but I do not want to vote on how SDA, HDZ and the Club of Serbian Parties wants to, but I want to vote on my conscience and I want to choose. Not to choose in the set, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16126	We can't do that, no no, we can't do that. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16127	because this is something that is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina's RTTV system. Many of these were levers in the hands of the ruling, as those who came thus ruled the public services. Look at what RTRS looks like, look at how Federal TV behaves. Regardless of my support for their full functioning and their work, I can't accept that kind of work, I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16128	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The topic is that we need to establish a relationship that will strengthen trust and show that we want an institution that is outside of political influence. There was lobbying, they were coming home, one night a guy broke into my house, through my neighbor, not knowing what it was, could you back me up, etc. I don't think it's anything outside of something that we live in this space. Of all these names that they have, I only know Mr. Memija well, and I would personally love Memiju. But I can't put it in a credibility package to raise my hand. As an institution to which we have given the opportunity to regulate these relations, the RAC has created a ranking list and today we are in a position to make the first one of the Serb and Croatian people, and the Bosniak people are not. Why? I don't really know anything about this first-ranked from the Bosniak people, but it's a principled provision that brings me into a position of calmness to make a decision. Okay, you who're the regulator from what you had 68 I didn't have, from what you discussed I didn't discuss, you suggested first-ranking, the College decides to vote in the package, okay. All first-ranked in the package, has my voice. This is how it makes me feel to be restrained in this situation, with a lot of respect for the personality and how I'm experiencing Mr. Memija, but it doesn't fit the concept we're talking about. Public television service in the hands of professionals by choice of what's called RAC. I'd like you to think about it. I would also like to say that in this time, even though we swear independence, there was a story in the towers about political interests where anyone should be. Let the stories... let our actions and decisions have the credibility of what is called the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16130	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16131	Of course, I'm sorry that I answered, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but in a way, here, I used this to request a 15-minute break that we need to consult, given that this is a completely new situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16132	At the request of the SBB Club, I'm giving a 15-minute break. We'll continue at 5:00. We're going back to work. Is Club SBB ready to comment after this break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16134	We have conducted the necessary consultations on this agenda point and we have used our right to have a 15 minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16135	Thank you very much. So, this, after these consultations and all that I've heard, so there hasn't been any of these final consultations within Parliament itself, and I'm talking to my colleague, Bosić, here is not my colleague, not our colleague Krišto, uh, I suggest that we postpone this agenda point for the next session. I invite you to plead with me on this proposal. Prepare to vote. _________(?) 69 [[no microphone turned on]] Postponing the agenda. So, with 20 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, we postponed this item of the agenda until the next session. I urge the club presidents to put this issue on the table so it will be ready for the next session of the House of Representatives. We're moving to the 82nd agenda, Ad. 82. Consideration of the Denis Bećirović parliamentary initiative, submitted on 09.11.2016, which reads: “The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina shall, no later than six months from the date of adoption of this initiative in the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, prepare and submit amendments to the electoral law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which stipulates that the elected member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency must not be a member of the political party, that is to say, after the entry into office of office to resign in party duties, and informs the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an act number: 01-50-1-2863/16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16138	Thank you. In a country that has the electoral rules that we have and in a country where we have a president who magically changes every time, or three presidents, and we call them all presidents, and who are elected by the formally-legal citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean the plural, who are elected, and are not members of just one political party, not one ethnic party, at least by themselves, would be correct to step down at the moment of taking office of members of the Presidency or the role of president, because they should represent the interests of all citizens, regardless of political, religious, racial, such as, such and any other member. It's all about politics now. If this is the case, then none of those who are members of a body called the Presidency, or Mr President, are the presidents of all citizens, but only those who, at some point, chose the political option. And that means that none of them have, let's call it, what's in all the democratic systems of the world, most of them, none of them have the will of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would be necessary for us to do so, and to be able to say that those who assume such a duty must step down from political, because they now belong to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all religious, national, any commitment. If it isn't so who is representing the Rom in the presidency, and we are talking about Sejdić-Sejdić-Finac, Jevreje, Rusin, Crnogorac, Makedonac, Poljak, Ukrajinac, Rumun, Bugar, Slovenac? We have an awful lot of national conglomerates in Bosnia and 70 Herzegovina. Those people who plead to be presidents represent everyone, because they too have been elected and perhaps not, are certainly not members of their political parties. And I support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16139	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16140	I thank the chairman. No, this is a way to erase internal reforms and free some parties from leaders. The Serbian Democratic Party has a principled position, we have long and requested and sought and advocated, for example, that the president of Republika Srpska cannot be party official and the moment someone was elected to freeze his party engagement. From that point of view, we also find this initiative absolutely acceptable. I would only ask you to correct your initiative, not to bury the Council of Ministers since we have an Interresor Working Group of this Parliament to deal with amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, to direct this initiative, to reform it to the Interresor Working Group, which will address this as part of its mandate. And I promise you that you have my support and support for the SDS, the SDS Club. We will support, so we support this intensities so that members of the Bureau are not engaged in political parties during the performance of their mandate in the BiH Presidency, we are simply asking that you re-form and that we are not going to be buried here with ten amendments to the Election Law, to go to the Interresor Working Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16141	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16142	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So this, in my opinion, is a good intensities from different sides can be driven by this democratisation of how this generally political space in BiH, it is necessary to open and to happen and to essentially work through political parties. So democratisation of political parties and general democratisation of political space in Bosnia and Herzegovina is necessary to further develop everything else. If we're going to do it this way, and I believe we will, because these are the positive practices that we already have, here, both in the region and beyond, if in this way we're going to make that kind of norm and standards that are going to be applicable afterwards, and I think we've made this huge step. And my suggestion is also going in the direction of what my colleague Pandurević was talking about, so that it wouldn't be on the side of any action anymore, that it would be used immediately and that, in some ways, it would be recasted and sent to the Interressor Working Group, and let's work on it. I believe that this will also be supported by colleagues from the SDA Club, also those who will be in that Interresor Working Group, for one such approach. 71 So this is what we have a state that is for all, not for some chosen, state that serves all people. I think we can and should show it through these most significant functions in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16143	Thank you. The word has an honourable representative, Mr. Denis Bećirović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16144	The initiative has been delivered, the commission phase has passed, and the House of Representatives will have the opportunity to declare it in the end. This in no way prevents any such initiative from being forwarded to this Interresor Working Group that deals with amendments to the Election Law. But people who know how this Interresor Working Group works, how it is painfully and hard to negotiate and about more harmless things know what the likely outcome is if we do so. So I think today we need to send a clear message from Parlametten that we want to make changes on this matter. And this is just an announcement, and I don't mean to just stand with this initiative, after this vote, I think that we, in the second step after the BiH Presidency, have to sort things out at least at the level of the functions of the president and vice president in both entities. At these important functions, people should represent all citizens, and not just their colossal interests, as is currently the case. And this kind of initiative and intensity is actually our attempt to limit and narrow down autocracy in this country. Well, it's not normal for Bosnia and Herzegovina for you in one person to have such a strong concentration of power whether it's in the presidency or at the entity level, when it comes to presidential functions, that people lead and the party, that they lead and most important state bodies, that they don't consult even an approximate number of people, and that, as we can see, we're not going exactly in the right direction as we are in the situation. The other thing, and that's a special aspect of this story, I think the adoption of one such initiative would be a contribution not to abolishing, but to questioning the partocracy in this country and strengthening democracy. And I must say that this proposal is becoming more and more MPs who are ready to support it, we will see today how the vote will go and not talk about the media and the public. At the beginning of her discussion, kolegica Pandurević transferred the ball, so to speak, and to the internal party of the party from which I came, but there is little truth, to be self-critical. As a man who's seen in his life some things work, I'm convinced that what we have right now is certainly not good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I call on my colleagues to define our position as a House of Representatives, I must say that, of course, it would be too optimistic of me if I expected now that people who are directly controlled by individual members of the Presidency or the president of these entities would support this today. I don't expect any support from them, but there are a lot of free-thinking people who are going to vote for one of these initiatives today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16145	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16146	I thank the chairman. 72 Ma, I thought we wanted a solution here and we're going towards the same goal. If you want six votes, six votes from our Club at this time, there are seven, colleague Novaković is not there, the solution is to send this to the Interresor Working Group, or, here is another solution, write it yourself, it is one member and we will support it. But I can't let every session you have five initiatives to do something about the Council of Ministers. It's not big changes and additions, write it yourself we'll support maybe with some amendments, you have no real problem with our support, we support that principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16147	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, the esteemed representative, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16148	Well, I think we'll get one thing straight, which business opportunities will be used by me and the SDP Club when they can't, and when they can't impose, that's exactly what we're calling an autonomous decision on. We are here an opposition party, as it will all pass is not only of course three MPs from the SDP, there are 42 legally elected MPs here. So everyone needs to weigh, think about it in the end and vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16149	Thank you very much. Niko one's answering for a word anymore. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 84th item of the agenda – Considering Borislav Bojić's parliamentary initiative submitted on 28.11.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16150	Eighty-three.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16151	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so I'm sorry. Moving to the 83rd point of the agenda, Ad. 83. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 24.11.2016, which reads: "It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to, no later than 90 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, prepare and submit to the parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law on the Earth Anti-Fascist Council of National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ZAVNOBiH)", issue: 01-50-1-2973/16 The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission responsible for considering this initiative. The competent Commission submitted its opinion on the initiative on 13 December 2016. The Commission has not adopted the initiative. 73 I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the 84th agenda, Ad. 84. Consideration of Borislav Bojić's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 28.11.2016, which reads: "The BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution is tasked with drawing up a special report on the appearance, use and protection of state, or official features in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1-3005/16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16156	I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16157	We're going to the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 votes for, 4 against, 11 abstentions. There is no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity, and I find that this conclusion has been adopted. We're voting on the adoption of Salke Sokolović's conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 votes for, no problem, nine abstentions. Enough entity majority, we adopted Mr. Salke Sokolović's conclusion. We move to the 79th item of the agenda, please pay attention to the 79th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2914/16, since 15.11.2016. (second reading) We're voting on the amendments of Mr. Honorable Representative Denis Bećirović. 21 amendments, we vote on amendments to the package. Prepare to vote. 13 votes for, 18 against, 2 abstentions. 76 There is not enough general majority, I find that Mr. Denis Bećirović's amendments have not been adopted. We are voting on amendments from MPs, respected representative Damir Bećirović. 25 amendments, we vote in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 13 votes for, 19 against, 1 abstention. So there is no general majority, no amendments were adopted, 25 amendments by Mr Damir Bećirović. We vote on the amendments of respected representatives Salke Sokolović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Senad Šepić, Sadik Ahmetović and Jasmin Emrić. Nine amendments, we vote in the package. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We decided to offer a vote in the package. Stand by. _________(?) Who are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16166	We will.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-12-14-0.u16167	We're going to the second round. Prepare to vote. 22 votes for, 10 against, no abstentions. There is no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity, and I find that this initiative has been adopted. We are singing on the 84th item of the agenda – Considering Borislav Bojić's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 28.11.2016, which reads: "The BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution is tasked with developing a special report on the appearance, use and protection of state, or official features in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1-3005/16. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Prepare to vote. 18 votes for, 3 against, 11 abstentions. Enough entity majority, I'm sure we've adopted this initiative. 79 We are now voting on a proposal to make a statement on points 85 to 94 in the package. Prepare to vote. So 25 votes for, 2 against and 5 abstentions. A sufficient entity majority, I agree, has adopted an initiative to, uh, propose to vote in the package. We're going to points 85 to 94. – Giving consent to ratification of amendments, agreements and contracts. Prepare to vote. 31 votes for, no problem, one abstention. A sufficient entity majority, I understand, has given consent to ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I hereby conclude the 39th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session was planned for 29 December 2016. Thank you for your cooperation. I apologize, one moment only please, please one moment, I thank Mr. Lovrinović, although by Christmas there are about 11 days more, are we not going to have meetings before Catholic Christmas and I am giving all Catholics in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all those who celebrate Christmas on behalf of the House of Representatives and on my personal behalf honest congratulations. I want them to spend Christmas in health and joy with their loved ones, with my neighbors, wish them the best of their lives, and I wish them all the best of our lives. Thank you very much, live and healthy. Session completed at 6:10 p.m.
