ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12737	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the work of the 28th session of the House of Representatives. I welcome you all together. Since I'm realizing that we have a quorum going to the next item of the agenda, that's the 14th point of the agenda, Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-340/16, from 01.03.2016. (first reading) At the 27th session of the House, held on 05.04.206., no negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the conformity of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina was accepted, and the Commission was obliged to, in accordance with Rule 113(2) of the Rules of Procedure, to draw up a new opinion on the proposed law. The relevant Joint Commission for Human Rights delivered 31.03.2016. The opinion in which she supported the principles of the bill. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered Opinion 26.04.2016. The Commission has established the consistency of the draft law with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Borislav Bojić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12739	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Ministers, distinguished guests, fellow MPs. I'll just have a few principle remarks since this is the first reading and that the Law itself is really very much discussed multiple times and on many occasions. And I am, above all, grateful to everyone who participated in the attempt and debate to get as far as possible to a better and more complete solution. With that in mind, I think it would be good after today's debate that, among other things, this enables us to do the same thing in Article 112. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I will propose one conclusion that the Joint Committee on Human Rights will hold a public debate within 30 days on the Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights so that those issues that are not, in my opinion, heard probably today, tried simply to bring them closer so that we can come to a solution. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'd just start with some questions, like, for example. questions relating to the proposal relating to the Ombudsman Institution. When we talk about an institution, it can be a mistake, for example. We have the BiH Presidency, not an institution of 2 Presidencies, or, for example, We have a Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, not an institution of the Parliamentary Assembly. In particular, it would be logical for the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the BiH Ombudsman institution, to be here. That question, I believe we can reach agreement on that solution. What is fundamentally important in this Law itself is the issue of funding the Ombudsman Institution. If anything else, I think that, I believe it can be agreed here in Parliament, that identical solutions to how we solved the review issue, the Chief Audit Service, that such a same solution seems to me to be acceptable to the Ombudsman institution, given that this request stands for us by a number of international institutions dealing with this issue... Venice Commissions and others. It seems to me that in this direction we should lead further activities to come up with a solution that will address the issue of financial independence of this institution. Let me remind you that yesterday, on the Joint Commission, we unanimously adopted the conclusion that further strengthening and strengthening of the Ombudsman institution is necessary in view of the spectrum of issues that this institution is dealing with, especially when considering the need for this institution to carry out additional special reports and so on. For these reasons, I think it would be a good idea that this issue of the financial independence of the institution in a way, of course by budgeting it, not to set a budget for itself, but to prepare or approach a solution that has been resolved when it comes to the Chief Audit Service. Of course, another question that I would like to mention in principle, and that should be resolved, and that is the issue of a preventive mechanism. I think this chapter should bear the name preventative mechanism and... that all solutions within this preventive mechanism are, in my opinion, acceptable, so that there is no confusion, given when it is put in the way it has been settled in the Law it can represent a certain kind of confusion and can hardly be acceptable by elected representatives here in the Parliamentary Assembly. I think we're getting the same thing in principle and in particular, so I don't think anything special is going to change with that approach, which basically defines the question that is necessary to be defined. There are still many objections, but I would not at this stage to make more remarks for the space of reason why we intend to leave this law alive and try a public debate for 30 days, that these questions, I just mentioned some of them, I do not want to open other questions, because it would open the next question again, that this law should be questioned. It would be good to pass this law, especially because of the status of the Ombudsman institution, which is really expected of us to resolve several issues, which is a question of funding and this is a matter of preventive mechanism. These are two questions that we have to sort of resolve as legislators, and this issue of the Ombudsman or the institution I think is a completely logical thing, and I tried to explain in a very simple way, very... what reasons I think that I should be the title of the Law as the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not the institution, because the institution would be, I would kind of consider it as a building or as an institution, you know, that implies everything. Ponović once again, if the BiH presidency is the BiH presidency, it is not the BiH presidency institution, if the Parliamentary Assembly is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it is not the institution of the Parliamentary Assembly. ... it is perfectly logical that the Ombudsman as such has basically the name Omudsmen Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, I'm just a few things that, in my opinion, are isolated, and there are more. I believe that through this public debate, I will allow this conclusion to be shared with the MPs, and in accordance with Article 112, in order to allow for a faster and better-quality approach to a good solution to this Law. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12740	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good day to you all, all present in the hall I welcome. So, I've had a few thoughts, too, since it's the first reading, so I'd like those who are proposing might hear a little bit of my predecessor and me so they can see what they can do to the second reading, so we can come to a more simple final solution. For example, for me, it is a vague article 5 that speaks of some, so what is the institution and some of its powers, but it is unclear who it refers to. Is that on people who are, for example, in the case of a closed or formed special body for what is provided for in Article 5(1). Then, for example, it is unclear why Article 6 (4) – The institution has the authority to carry out research in all complaints of human rights violations and freedoms allegedly committed by military authorities. I don't know why this is a formula, why military authorities. I guess he's gonna give an answer, so maybe at this point, it wasn't clear to me. Then, it seems to me that Article 10 was far more constitutional in the previous assembly than is now proposed, in particular in paragraph (3) – the way in which the choice of Ombudsman will be done, then in Article (12) when the speech on how it can be resolved is up-to-date, in point (b), says – the prevention of performing its duty for health reasons. So first, whoever determines them can have the flu that someone, I banalize, let someone do it while he's fluting, so shift. So it needs to be seen and specified. Then, in Article 17, it is conditional on the proposal to divide it into certain, so to speak, areas, the assumption is that, at the head of these areas, it will be related to one person, one boss. I don't think this is well done, that this is going through with each other and it can't be divided like this. ... discrimination, conditionally named under a), so protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms under b), protection of the rule of law and social solidarity under c). Like what? If that would allow three people to be at the head of such areas, I think that, it's simply impossible to do that because this is pervasive. So I suggest we think about it a little bit and sort it out another way. So, I'm not going to talk about it anymore, as my colleague Bojić says, but I'm just a few, which I thought most important, remarks said, and I'd like the motionaries to think about them. If not, then there's another way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12742	Thank you. Vice-President Šefik Džaferović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12743	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It is good that we have come into a situation today to talk about this Law in the first reading. It is good that the earlier negative report was not adopted, because this is the law that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs and I think that we should all make every effort to finally have the text of the new Law on the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is one of the very important and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to mention the internal needs of our country. There are some issues still at stake at the Council of Ministers' 4 and the Ombudsman's Institution. I have also read the remarks of the Ombudsman and the response of the Ministry of Human Rights, and I think it is possible to find solutions that we have a law in the second reading that would be acceptable, after I hope today we adopt the Law in the first reading, for all of us. I think it is a good Commission commitment to hold a public debate and I think that we should support it today, although it is the Commission's decision, it is not necessary for the Commission to decide at home, but if the Commission insists it would not be too much to give, therefore, today's consensus to hold a public debate. Let me just say a few words about a few specific things. So the questions Mr. Bojić mentioned were questions that were the subject of the debate and when this text of the Law was adopted. We had an Ombudsman institution for, we had an Ombudsman, actually, for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we know that it was an international representative. And when, we had an Ombudsman on the entity level, and when the rules of institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina were made, then it was said that there could be no one ombudsman, if one of these issues was an ombudsmen or an institution would be completed, but there were three, so now the institution stands. And I think that there is a significant difference in the presidency and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of which are the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I don't think there should be any particular problems. The word of the institution, however, means that it is the institution of the Ombudsman in which there are three ombudsmen, and that was the intensity of the Law when it was first passed. But here, let the people who understand this better, I'm not running away from being a different solution, but it seems to me that this was what was specific when this law was first adopted. There are questions here about the mandates of the existing ombudsmen, I ask that this issue be resolved, and it is possible to resolve that question, and I think that this question is a good part, as much as I can read between the ranks of what is happening, burdens the adoption of this Law. I think that this should be resolved in a positive way and I think that the ministry and the Ombudsman, or the Ombudsman institution, can find ways to propose a satisfactory solution. The issue of immunity, beware of immunity, we have laws on immunity and immunity is given to those laws to members of the executive authority, the legislative authority, but only when the court decides that it is a matter from the work of those institutions, whether it is criminal responsibility or civil responsibility. But it seems to me that there should be a good review of the laws on courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and all that the holders of the judicial office have, and it is a protection in their actions and can be linked to immunity, should be given to the Ombudsman institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina and there should be no problems. So, I ask you to be in cooperation, and the Ministry and the Ombudsman institutions, you are on the same task, find a common solution, and what you find I believe will be supported here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12744	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12745	Well, let me say the same few words about this law itself. I remember the time when for the first time the Law was passed and when we lacked many important experiences to make this institution. But today we have these experiences, and that's why I don't understand 5 how there have been so many mistakes in this law. I don't think the law was done with enough attention or maybe it took more time, or more participants, that the things that are finally going to have to be arranged now, getting into the law all the things that we haven't done so far, to bring to the level that we have one representative law. So, what I'm saying, by respecting what my colleagues used to say before me, is not one important thing, and that's the issue of headquarters. So the issue of headquarters is the question of which many polemics were being addressed. And it's inadmissible that the Ombudsman can establish, if necessary, where he thinks, offices. That's not possible, the seat is defined by law, and the rest should be verified, so it's not right for one person to decide something like this. That's one thing. The second thing is about Article 5, and I think we should put a point after – the institution is responsible for protecting and promoting human rights and freedom, point. A... is – for the purpose of functioning the national preventive mechanism for promoting and preventing torture and other... We said it was about promotion, protecting the promotion of human rights and freedom, and it covered everything. I've already said this about the protection of human rights, this issue of complaints as an institute that doesn't exist, which should be replaced, but something I don't think is, conditions, in terms of appointing it, uh, we haven't... spoken. Why does not the appropriate expert prepare in accordance with, which would have to be held by the person who is running for this function, given that he must have certain experience related to the legal profession. Well, it doesn't make sense that there's no point in any of this, that we don't write any, there's no, no, there's no indication which expert cook is supposed to be, and what specialties should be owned by that person. So, there's something you should write down. And finally, Article 12, which speaks of the termination of duty and resolution. Well, it's not just in these three cases, and that's the end of the term, resignation and death. Can an Ombudsman stop his mandate if he doesn't do his job well? This is what is the most important item, we forget often that this basic item should also be a key reason. So, I hope that someone will have it in mind when it does, after a public debate to bring all this into force in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12746	Thank you. Ambassador Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12747	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I also think it is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina to get one such law and it is extremely important that this institution acts on the principles of professionality of financial and other independence. Since the law is in the first reading, I have appeared because I think Article 4 should be complemented before this law is adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to Article 4, the headquarters of this institution is in Banja Luka, and that offices exist in Sarajevo, Mostar and Brcko District. My proposal is, therefore, to say publicly now, to add to Article 4, that this institution also has its own office in Tuzla. And I don't know by what criteria some others might have offices, and let's say Tuzla, as the capital of the most human canton in the Federation of BiH, doesn't have one such office, especially I think it would make a political and any other sense to put into this Law the City of Tuzla, which is recognizable by human rights affirmation for decades. So, I suggest that, until this Law comes into the 6th Amendment phase, Tuzla should be included in this Article 4 of this Law, because there are indeed countless serious reasons why Tuzla should also have an office in this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12748	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12749	I thank the chairman. I will also point out that it is an extremely important law for Bosnia and Herzegovina. As some colleagues have said, uh, there are certain shortcomings, but for these needs and there is an amendment phase and these shortcomings are not at all of the nature that they cannot be corrected at this amendment stage. This may include the issue of headquarters, which may or may not need to be repaired, we will see exactly what is resolved in that package around the headquarters of other institutions. And to me, however, it is not clear why Mr Bojić proposed this conclusion, although I am a member of the same Commission this is my paper, because the Joint Committee on Human Rights, and Mr Džaferović said very precisely, has already adopted the conclusion in accordance with Article 114. Rules of Procedure to hold a public hearing. The public debate was to take place within 30 days, so this conclusion, I think, is no problem in supporting it, but it is really too much, because we already have the Commission's conclusion, not in accordance with Article 112, but in Article 114, that the public debate is held. And that is why, given that it has not already been done in accordance with the business deadline, I would appeal then to the House to set a date as soon as possible by the end of this month, if we were not to go now within this maximum period of 30 days, because we adopted it on 31 March, so we should have held this public debate long ago. So if that conclusion is accepted let the public debate take place, then let it indeed be the conclusion by the end of May. Because we have certain deadlines, that the Ombudsman can confirm, which are extremely important for the adoption of this law, I think it's June, is it, and we have July, and we have a second phase, we have an amendment phase so that if I can suggest that this conclusion is modified instead of 30 days to stand by the end of May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12750	Thank you. We're finishing point 14. We're going to point 15, Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Law No Gasal-Vražalica, from 03.03.2016, (first reading) Last session of the House did not accept the negative opinion of the competent commission on the principles of the draft law, and the Commission is responsible for drawing up a new Opinion on the proposed Law, in accordance with Article 113(3). The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered 7 Opinions 26.04.2016. The Commission has established compliance with the draft law with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system and adopted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12752	I thank the chairman. I welcome both you and the other colleagues and colleagues in this room. Well, you know, this is how when a man looks at it as it's written we would now say that with the proposal of this law, we will have a problem of sport, of functioning, of funding and of all other things that are really important, not only for Bosnia and Herzegovina and sport, but also for all other countries in Europe and the world. However, unfortunately with this proposal, this amendment to the Law did not have these ambitions, and I think with these proposals, this amendment of the Law is actually not really going to change anything, this is just, let me say, fine-tuning some of the items of this Law, but it's hard for me to say at all that I'm going to support something like this that doesn't change the essence. So, I don't think with this bill of law we're going to achieve anything but the fact that, let's say, gender equality is achieved with this amendment, but the essence is not what the bill's supposed to carry with it. That's why I feel free to say that the SBB Club will not support this, the proposals of this, the amendments to this law. And I appeal to all those who have the ambition to make these laws, this or similar laws, to try to solve the essence with what they propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12753	Thank you. Ambassador Momčilo Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12754	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12755	He's giving up. No more reports. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12757	I thank the chairman. Well, I would like, through the discussion, to respond to my esteemed colleague, Mirsad Đonlagić, to remind myself that the amendment and the addition of the Law that would include what Mr Đonlagić is calling for the essence, for someone is the essence to edit and the financial framework, and for someone it is essential that gender equality law be arranged, to integrate into all areas of the Bosnia and Herzegovina society, to replace a discriminatory, offensive term "influenced persons" in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the term "persons or persons with disabilities" prescribed by the 8 conventions. And also to remind Mr Đonlagić that one proposal to amend and supplement the Law which included all this, namely the financial part and the resolution of all these segments in..., the Framework Law on Sport and there were members of the Law proposed by my important colleague Denis Bećirović, however, this House, and neither the Commission wanted to support such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law. So I must stress once again that this Law is a covered essence, part of it is the Law on Gender Equality, which is in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, and finally this is one way to finally integrate those two laws into all the laws that are in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For someone it's the point, for someone here I hear it's not. I am sorry that the Club of the SBB will not support this Amendment and Supplement proposal, in particular that my esteemed colleague Damir Arnaut is also active in the Commission for Human Rights, as well as Mr Isaković, who is chairman of the Commission for Gender Equality. I think this way we could show that the text of the law can be changed and that it includes the essence. And I hope this House adopts this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12758	Ambassador Senad Šepić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, very briefly. I think this Law, or the Amendment to this Law, corrects the situation in this area, and it is better than this existing Law. I agree with Mr. Đonlagić who says he has a lot of room for reaction and a lot of room to fix the current law, but if we look at what we have on the agenda right now, I think this is the kind of approach that my colleague, Gasal, has proposed, we should basically accept. So it's a small step but it's still a step forward and it's actually an approach that's about to say that in one of these ways we can improve the existing state. I also affirm other people who think we should make a bigger move in the existing laws to do so, but let's just say that the only argument being that we're not all what we're kind of imagining, so we're not going to take any less steps that one of our colleagues is proposing to take. I don't think that's the way we were supposed to go in general. And I call on people here today to support, in this sense, the positive efforts of any of the colleagues who really contribute, to sink into a particular area, and to make a positive step in relation to the existing situation. So I will support these changes and invite others to join in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12760	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12761	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really going to ask something with this chair to do to me, I'm not a big man yet, and I can't possibly get out, look, I don't know what's going on here. Not on you chairman, but here's the secretary listening for the fifth time, I really need to go around someone's sanctuary. 9 But I stood up, first of all, to talk about the Law, that is, the bill, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm also not going to support it, because I agree with Mr. Đonlagić, so that nothing essentially offers a new, especially code, but I've already commented several times, so I've commented several times that listing certain groups when it comes to discriminatory actions against people and persons, this, and not citing everyone always causes trouble to leave out. So this proposal also does this again and lists certain groups or concepts, and then ultimately lists both laws, so on gender equality and the prohibition of discrimination. So it could have been avoided, if it was already meant to be said, only by stating those laws, and ending the story. And besides, there is, therefore, a special law and I don't know why all these provisions should be repeated in every particular law, if we have passed a special law when it comes to these terms. Maybe you should, but then you should list all possible groups, concepts, etc., which can be found in a situation to be discriminated against, and in sport and anywhere else, I've said that before, I don't know how many colleagues remember, but in this way I don't think that's settled as well as thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12762	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing on the 15th point. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-610/16, from 18.03.2016. (first reading) Last session of the House did not accept the negative opinion of the committee in charge of the principles of the draft law, and the Commission is responsible for drawing up a new opinion on the proposed law, in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 26 April 2016. The Commission has established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system and adopted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12764	Therefore, it is very important to say something since the commission did not deal with the obvious letter sent by a group of defence attorneys to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It's not likely, indeed, that man can't understand the situation in which we come to work, that law enforcement officials show terrible reserves according to the bill and that we remain immune to it. So, what is it, basically, what is it, what is it? So, first of all, the complexity of the defence function in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not consistent with how it's aligned at the level of canton, entity, so it's first of all, so obviously that's where we made the mistake of starting. 10 Second, the defenders, the adversaries of the defenders, participate in the highest number of civil and other proceedings, and yet, according to the existing law, they are, therefore, significantly demoted in relation to their colleagues who are at other levels of government. Third, defenders' bearers. They don't have immunity. It's amazing how people who are being filed against because they made a certain statement in the process, that they don't have immunity, everyone else has, they're the only ones who don't. I think that if they're already doing that job and they're not going to court, there's not going to be a deputy, a chief attorney and a deputy, but there's going to be an assistant attorney, they're in 90% of the cases in court. So we have to keep that in mind when, we've brought them down to practically state officials. Could a lawyer who does such a job be in the status of a civil servant? Third, or fourth in a row, only part of the problem was brought out. That's what it's been saying for years we've heard things happen in that institution that are worth paying attention to. Parliament has been closing conscious eyes so far. Is he entitled to it? And in the end, isn't this our last chance to make quality arrangements and pass a quality Law on Attorney General, and to address the matter of assistant attorneys. I think it's time we deal with this. These people need to be talked to, and I think the Justice Department has a key task in it, there is no minister, though, but we won't be able to change any amendments, as proposed by the Constitutional Commission, all of this that's been dropped when it comes to suggestions delivered by seven assistant attorneys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12765	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12766	Thank you. When it comes to the Law on the Defence, such a law, the law as such is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is not disputed. When it comes to this draft law on the Constitutional Legal Commission, a very detailed debate has been held on literally all the issues that my colleague Majkić mentioned and I think today we will come to the conclusion that I have proposed on the Commission, which is that until the second stage of the preparation of the amendments by the Council of Ministers that will correct all these shortcomings in this Law. And that's the only way the SBB Club will support this bill in a second reading. So now we go in first reading with this bill, because the law is necessary. In the second reading, we will support if all of these, or all of the corrections that the D.A. pointed out, are installed. Among other things, it's not just about immunity, there are more serious issues, the lawyer's shift issue. It is inadmissible from the SBB Club's point of view that the Council of Ministers can be replaced by a lawyer, only the Parliamentary Assembly can do so as it has been, and in the Bill proposal we have a Council of Ministers replacing it. In any case, I think that today we will have, uh, the Commission adopted this conclusion that I have suggested, I think that the House today will declare itself, which is that it is in charge of the Council of Ministers that until the next session, or until the second reading, correct all these shortcomings, in order to really get, not only the quality text, but also the text of laws that approve those who most apply it, which is the pravobranilaštvo. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12767	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12768	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As far as I could see the meaning of amending the Law on Defence, among other things, is the view of avoiding unnecessary disputes before the Court of Justice or against Bosnia and Herzegovina before the Court of BiH. The idea of making a commitment to an applicant to apply for a peaceful solution to the dispute is not a bad one, but I don't think it's properly governed by this Act. In addition to this Law, we in the parliamentary procedure also have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure which follows, in a certain way, this Law, and we have stopped the procedure when this Law is at issue, waiting to see how this matter will be resolved. And the second meaning of this Law is an attempt to tighten the responsibilities of defenders in such a way that when a Council of Ministers report is not adopted it can raise a question of responsibility. I don't think any of the other questions, which were treated by this law, are properly resolved, but I also think that these are issues that need to be resolved. And that's why I think today the law needs to be supported in the first reading and depending on the amendment phase will depend and my relationship prepares this law in the end. So what do I want to say? I would like to say that it is possible, therefore, to settle this issue of trying to resolve the dispute by means of an out-of-court procedure, but it must be precisely done, it must not be offended by human rights or by any entity under that company which, with active legitimacy, addresses the Court of Justice of BiH, it must be done precisely, we have such examples in our legislation. And this other thing, I think, if this is going to apply to the D.A., then it should apply to all institutions and the D.A. shouldn't be an exception when it comes to responsibility. It is not possible to establish such a mechanism only for the judiciary and leave everything else in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is a much more serious thing than the way it's treated in this law. So, I suggest that we adopt the Law in the first reading, prepare the amendment, that the Council of Ministers consider what we are talking about and then see how we do in the second reading. If it stays like this for me, it'll be unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12769	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12770	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I join everything that was said before me, especially what Mrs. Majkić said, so I had the opportunity to read it a little bit more in detail, this letter, and to talk about it, and it seems to me that this should be resolved by the next stage, if not, so 12 as Mr. Džaferović said, and my relationship with it will be the way these issues are resolved, and I hope that those who have proposed it here today have heard it and will respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12771	Thank you. We don't have any more reports, I'm closing point 16. We're going to the 17th point, Ad. 17. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in dual-use goods – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-748/16, of 04.03.2016 (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 04.03.2016. On 10.03.2016, the legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, which found that it was in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Consistency of the Bill with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina 04.04.2016. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH delivered its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal on 25 April 2016. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security has delivered to the Joint College of both Houses of Parliament a conclusion requiring the lecturing texts of the bill to be delivered to all MPs and delegates. The Joint College decided to deliver to the Council of Ministers the proposed law on the control of external trade in dual-use goods and the Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose, which was lectured by the Department of Lecterisation – the INDOK of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly in all three languages. The BiH Council of Ministers delivered a statement in 10/05/2016 agreeing that the proposed law goes further. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12773	Thank you. So, I wanted to draw attention to both this point and the next, Mr. Secretary, so here's the talk about lecturing, so I think it's here when it comes to Croatian, and in front of me it should be, the name of the law should be "supervisory", not control, so. Well, at both points it's that way in the title, so I wouldn't, I wouldn't answer it next time, but I'd like to ask it to make it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12774	Thank you. We're out of logs. I'm closing the 17th wheel. 13 We move to the 18th point, Ad. 18. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-752/16, of 04.03.2016. (first reading) So it's about the same procedure as the previous point. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, there is Dušanka Majkić's letter, a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12776	It wouldn't be right if there weren't any reports of a point like this. So we could almost have arranged the debate for both the previous point and this point together, but here, we separated them. I am sorry that there is no minister here to discuss this issue when, which is very current, especially because Bosnia and Herzegovina has often been on the list of countries which did not respect the measures taken against countries exporting weapons to illicit markets, so that this law actually replaces these two laws, the back and this, replaces the law called the Foreign Trade Control Act of Strategic Goods for the Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, this Law, which was adopted in 2009, was replaced by two laws, so the Law on the Control of Foreign Trade in Arms, Military Equipment and the Production of Special Purpose, which is now on the agenda, and this previous Act on the Control of Foreign Trade of Double-Forget Goods. Why is that, in fact, why did this happen? Therefore, the first reason is that the existing law applies similar procedures and conditions for weapons, military equipment and dual-use goods. Now we've separated that we have a different treatment for dual-use goods, that it doesn't go through the same procedure as the weapons and other military equipment. So now a common list of military equipment, a list of dual-use goods and a list of special purpose goods is separated. There is something out of the ordinary in this that when proposed by this zakon, the proposer dropped out of sight a constitutional provision that regulates a question that is exclusively within the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a matter of foreign-trogin policy, as exclusive jurisdiction, but that is often referred to by that famous member 4.4.a) who is most often referred to when we do not have constitutional jurisdiction, and then we abuse it. And now that we have an obvious member of the Constitution that speaks of Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction, then the promoter forgot it and, well, he didn't remember it, so that's also being established on the commission. What I'd like to say is that there's a connection here, something that's important, and it's a matter of keeping a record in the ministry. You remember every year we discuss the export of weapons and military equipment through two reports. One report relating to the Report of Licences issued and another is the Report on Realized Permissions. In this case, you also remember that Parliament has no possibility of having a quality debate and that it leads to, because the names of the devices and equipment mentioned in that report are written under codes and no one can assume at all what it is. It was an idea to write it for Parliament in a more acceptable language and way, but we never succeeded with the ministry to fight to know exactly what was exported. If you want to know what weapon it's about, you have to go to a special place to look for what's hidden under that code. 14 So now it is said to be done only, that it is reported, and that only the report of the issued and rejected requests is published, there is no more account of those who have been made. What does the report on the completed export licences mean? This means that whoever has received the weapon at a designated destination must confirm that the weapon has arrived and delivers it to the ministry as proof that it has arrived at the place it is intended to come, that it is not on the same line resold only to the next location. So that's the thing that's not clear. So we have made a law that makes it practically easier for arms dealers to work, and it makes it harder for us to work, because we will no longer have as Parliament the ability to control how it is and where the weapons ended, especially if it ended up in the destinations where the permits were made. That's one thing. And another thing, something about overseeing legal persons who've been issued an I.D. for carrying out foreign trade. So the surveillance remained unchanged. At first it states that the Law is just, this first law that I have stated a little, so the existing Law, that it is just, uh, we have now divided it into two parts because it requires different supervision. But when you look a little bit better, you actually see that surveillance... the way it doesn't change. Here, about these are some of the things that should certainly work in the Law and change to make it more effective for application.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12777	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing at 18 points. We're going to the 19th point, Ad. 19. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of public denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity – Proposer: MPs from the SDP Club Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović and Mirsad Mešić, Law No: 01-02-1-938/16, from 22.03.2016. (first reading) The bill was submitted in procedure 22.03.2016. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on compliance with Article 105 of the Law proposal on 26/03/2016. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, which found that it was in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 26 April 2016. The Commission has established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system and has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Mirsad Mešić first called.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12779	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The wish for us from the Social Democratic Party of BiH is to place the civilised countries in order to regulate these areas through the adoption of this Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have done our best to ensure that, without insulting anyone's feelings or experience, we define concepts such as Holocaust, genocide, crime against humanity, public denial, minimisation, and all these 15 definitions are based on the activities of international law, i.e. on conventions of international, UN, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course as a member of the UN, are obliged to law and enforce these laws. We call on you to contribute, without politicising, to the classification of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order of civilised countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12780	Thank you. Ambassador Predrag Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12781	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, here is a clue to what my colleagues Lovrinović said, a principled remark, so those laws that come to us from fellow MPs would be good for them to be available to us in the languages of all three peoples as systematically and constitutionally provided. That's not in the case of this law. Of course, this systematic and constitutional disadvantage did not prevent me from reading this relatively short Law carefully, so to say that I cannot certainly dispute the good intentions and the correctness of this matter to be regulated legally, on the basis of the best practices of 11 European countries that have done so. But we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we have to do it very carefully, I think. I'm going to quote (1) Article 7. The law: “He who denies the judgments of the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia commits a criminal offence punishable by a prison of up to 3 years.” For the consistent application of this paragraph of the Law, we would need a good prison in this country. Of course, we are left with the possibility of inconsistent application of the law, which is in this country, I would say, the greatest danger. So it seems to me that it would be better, again, as in the best practices of these 11 countries that have done so, carefully in Bosnia and Herzegovina to try the provisions concerning this matter to be incorporated into the amendments and additions to the Penal Code, as it did, for example, for both Germany and some other countries. But really in a careful way that would not lead us into a situation where the vague provision of the law implies the inconsistencies of this Law, anyway, what we're saying, a certain confusion in this country's judicial system, in a way, makes it bigger on topics that are most sensitive. That's why it seems to me, since it's about first reading, that it might be a better and smarter step, that amendments to the Criminal Law regulate this matter, I don't know how, but certainly in a way that doesn't leave room for a broad interpretation of the provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12782	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12783	Respecting every position of any MP, I just have to correct Mr. Kožul. It is not MPs who propose laws who are responsible for whether someone gets in the language or not. Of course, that remark goes to professional services, and perhaps to the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12784	MP Milica Marković, discussion. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, very briefly my reference to this bill. Therefore, the SNSD Club does not dispute the intention and desire to humanise relations in this country after the civil war that took place in the 1990s and to improve the situation for the better. In order for this to really happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, some preconditions need to be met. We do not dispute that the motionor's intention was in that direction, but I must say that what is wanted to achieve this Law has also not been met with some preconditions for it to actually happen. The position of the SNSD Club in general regarding the proposal for this law is that it is impossible to propose and adopt one such law until all proceedings which are essentially a crime against humanity and which essentially have genocide committed in this country, without bias and without partiality, which was unfortunately a methodology in the previous trials of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. So, until this bias and partiality is overcome in relation to the crime against humanity that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990s, we cannot discuss this law, the proposal for such a law. On the other hand, there is more contradiction in the text of the proposed Law. The promoter generally calls for some international obligations between Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of the adoption of such a law, and by content, when you read and understand this text is seen in fact that this is the internal need of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, I will say conditionally, with the desire and intention to humanise relations in society in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, the question is raised here, in fact, human freedom of expression and the right to free speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina is at stake. If you forbid one of these laws to slow down and question something, then, of course, you question the freedom of his expression to speak his mind and opinion, especially in a situation where you have a completely biased relationship between the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice in some judicial proceedings that have been conducted to this day on this plan. And if you have the fact that this same Court of Justice and the BiH Prosecutor's Office for such acts, which treats this Bill, sentenced Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina to nearly 1,500 years in prison and Bošnjak to 170 years in prison, and we know that this same Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office said that, in the case of "Tuzlain Columns" or crimes in Dobrovoljačka Street, there is absolutely no crime against humanity, nor grounds for genocide. So, in this context, you can't talk like this, we can't accept passing this law as long as there's a crime against humanity being committed to one people and treated for the other more than it should be treated for. And there's even a certain, let me say, certain tolerance for crimes committed by some other people. Here it calls for some rulings of the International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court and others, and I question what is the matter with other international institutions' rulings if this is set as a commitment by Bosnia and Herzegovina which it has not done so far. What about the numerous European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg, we know how many have been passed, and even the verdict in the case of Sejdić and Finc is a major obligation and burden for Bosnia and Herzegovina which it has not yet met. Therefore, this argument does not stand, as does the call for the adoption of such a law on the basis of some, as mentioned here, documents concerning the fact that each UN member state should pass a law that would be in the direction of combating cybercrime in terms of, I do not know, crimes against humanity, racism, xenophobia, etc. These documents are even from 1945 to which, uh, the proposer here is invited. 17 So, not to spread, it is very much, there are more controversial things and the thesis that have been put in place as an argument to the proposal of this law, and by us MPs from the SNSD Club here is a very tending intention to propose such a law. This is not the first time this law has been proposed in this House, but I will repeat once again what I said at the beginning, until certain preconditions are met that a law like this would be passed with a good and honorable intention for me from the SNSD Club cannot be accepted, nor an argument, nor a vote for such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12786	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12787	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I was going to discuss this text of the law, but I'm going to leave it, and here I see that my distinguished colleagues have come forward, and I just want to give a message. We from SDA and I Nermina Kapetanović as a representative today want to give a clear message – it is not good to be an interpreter of history. I said that a few days ago when a number of MPs from this Parliamentary Assembly tried to question and question, under the pretext of "suspecting" when we tried to establish a Memorandum of Understanding with Serbia on the search for missing persons, I also said what I am about to say now, we will not as parliamentarians, and we should not be in the name of the future of our children, that we are the supreme interpreters of history and everything that has happened. We don't need to take the role of courts, so setting up the thesis that there was civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and giving ourselves the right to interpret history, and history will show after a certain time... the unfortunate events, and death, and the deaths of all peoples, what really happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly such messages as are happening outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, some great forces that are trying to characterize the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a civil war. I think that colleague Marković, whether she said it with intent or not, I don't know, I don't want to be an interpreter of her words at all, but I am sending a message that here I am as a representative from the SDA and as a Bošnjakinja I will never accept that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is the interpreter. Let the courts do so, and let history do so, and we need... laws, by adopting positive legislation, by overcoming conflict and building a safe future for the children of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12788	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12789	So you, Mrs. Kapetanović, are asking that history be an interpreter of history and justice in this country only when it comes to the claims that stand on your side. That I said there was a civil war and conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only with intent, but also with conviction, and I stand behind it, so here was the conflict of three peoples. And what you're saying and what you think is your business, but you can't ask outside this House to have someone interpret history... the way 18 of you see it. I see it this way, and the Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina see it as a civil conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not aggression, not some third kind of conflict, as you are experiencing it. So, don't interpret my words, what I said, I have the right to say what I think, not only with intent, but with deep conviction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12790	According to the number of reported history and history, it takes more time and attention than what's on our agenda, as far as the future is concerned. Correction of the wrong allegations, Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12791	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm one of the MPs who really doesn't put the predominant interest of the people in focus, or primarily... don't focus... when I'm discussing I speak as a humanist. In my essence, before I became a Parliamentarian, I was a person who saved people's lives. Human life has no omens. It's inadmissible for me first to honor my interpretation of history. I, for God's sake, am not interpreting it. I am a humanist. That's the first one. Secondly, I never manipulate people's lives by counting and establishing the coefficients of convictions in years of prison between Bošnjak and Srbin, I apologize to one people, therefore, or Bošnjak and Hrvat. I don't see any of my colleagues in this House based on the omens of his name, not a single nation, so it's not predominant to me, there are only good people or bad people. But Mrs. Marković has, therefore, obviously gives herself great importance to her being an interpreter of history. I never wanted to be, I'm one of those who invites us here to move towards positive legislation and yes, that's what I said last time, to get out of our trenches' burial and... positions within political parties, within certain positions in entities and to finally start thinking as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the interests of citizens. And I'm a humanist, an anesthesiologist, a reanimatologist, and for me, human life has no omens, nor the count of punishments, years of punishments imposed in some judgments. So I'm absolutely not handling it. But Mrs. Marković gives herself, as usual, very important to be an interpreter of history and interpretation of everything and, of course, insults colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12792	Thank you. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12793	I thank the chairman. I volunteered to correct the wrong assumption so we might try to bring down a little passion. The promoter has achieved his goal. The aim of the promoter was here's what we're looking at. The colleagues who have been sitting here for a long time know that we've had this law twice in our last session, and now he's a little classy. In the previous term, the promoters were Azra Hadžiahmetović and Mr. Beriz Belkić. Both times the attitude from Republika Srpska was clear, this matter needs to be regulated by Criminal Law. You can't impose criminal sanctions on every law of God. We're opening one entirely, in which case, a new dimension. And if the promoter wanted a real solution, he would suggest amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, not this. Unfortunately, there's been a politicization of one topic of 19 here, and I'm asking really all my colleagues not to fall for these cheap tricks. This Law will experience the fate of all those before. The promoter has shown again, by who knows which way, that he is prone to manipulation and abuse of this Parliament. If the intentions are sincere changes and supplement the Penal Code, then we will declare them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12794	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12795	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome you all. I'm not going to talk about the law, I signed up here because I don't have much choice, so I'm not going to replicate Mrs. Milica Marković, but on account of her words, I want to say that I expect a speech in this House about events and not experiences. She said she was experiencing the past war as a civil war, so here's only on my side to reduce the experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12796	Correction of the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12797	So that there would be no dilemma as to what the objectives of this Law are, it is very clear in the very text and the reasoning of the Law. And this Law in no part of it, as it is able to see anyone who reads it, shares no sacrifice by religion, no national, no other basis. Secondly, the law is absolutely in the interest of both the Serbian and Croatian, and the Bosniak people, and the standing and all the citizens of this country. And this law is in the interest, first of all, of our children, to never again in the future what has happened to them in the past. And in that sense, in the name of the Proposer of this Law, I would like to remind you, since I will discuss during the discussion, that this is the Law on the Prohibition of Public Denial, Minimising, Justification or Approval of Holocausts, Crimes of Genocides and Crimes against Humanity. I don't understand why any MP would be against a law like this. So, people who are facing democratic values, who in the future want to build peace, security for our children, have no reason to adopt such a law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is deeply in the interest of, I repeat, of all peoples, not one and the other, but absolutely of all peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12798	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12799	You can also call this business intervention. The Honorable Chairman, the agenda item is the Law on the Prohibition of Public Denial, etc. We went into another sphere. I, as chairman, ask you to return it to the law, and let us talk about the law. Here we have gone to some, and I have two sentences just, this is a law that defines everything so both Gradiška and 20 Jasenovac, let's not forget it, so let's not forget Drina and Pavle Đurišić, and let's not forget it, and everything that happens and what, God Bog, could potentially happen in this country. On the other hand, whether we want it or not, there will come a time when we will have to adopt it, because an identical law exists in EU countries. Therefore, we will have to bring it through the EU's accession. And this law, in its final terms, has sanctions, so let's not go too far. There's no demand here for our confirmation or record of what happened. And I agree with Mrs. Kapetanović we are not judges, we will have time to judge, and time will judge everything that has happened in the historical context in a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12800	Debate, Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12801	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I support the principles of this Law, I support the necessity of adopting this Law in the sense that this area should be resolved, whether by passing a special law, what colleagues have done, or other principles, as a colleague has already said, through amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal legislation. In practice, it is a practice to condemn a man from one nation, from that nation to question that verdict, if they condemn a man from another people and these others dispute it, then if they condemn it from a third nation, then they also question it, more. That is how we question the work of the court and the judicial authorities, as well as international courts. If we are democratic, the third pillar of power must also be respected by the judicial tribunals in total, so also on this matter. Of course, I am aware that both judges and prosecutors are ordinary people like us, and they can be as wrong as the legislative and executive authority, as any citizen, but in order not to have us in the hands of the judicial authority, be executive or legislative, I think this issue is necessary by law. Of course, the adoption of such a law is also foreseen by the UN Resolution, as stated in the reasoning. What I ask the promoters is that perhaps, given that it is a first reading and, of course, all other colleagues, that they may pay attention to the definition of... of a crime in Article 5, which is, of course, related to the rest of Article 2 where they define the concepts. Perhaps this should, in my opinion, be done in a different, better way, and pay attention, in that same article, to the introduction of a new legal minimum of eight days in prison, which is contrary to the applicable Criminal Law. This would therefore be an exception if this were to pass, and they are also calling for criminal law, in this text, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, so I suggest they pay attention to that and eventually fix it in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12802	Thank you. Discussion, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12803	So this is not a law that exists only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather a law that comes from what modern Europe is resting on, above all, in the EU country. And all these modern democratic states have regulated this matter in two ways, or by special law lex specialis or 21 criminal laws. Judging by some statements during the discussion so far, the problem is that this is a special law, but they say it should be dealt with by criminal law. Here, on behalf of the Proposer of this Law, I want to say publicly – if there is a political willingness to solve this essentially, we will withdraw this Law immediately and let's regulate it by Criminal Law. But I'm afraid we all know very well that if we regulated this matter and the Criminal Law again, some would repeat the same argument. The other thing, we in the last term, someone was talking about it, we didn't have a single proposal for this law. So that's one false information, maybe we had some other and similar, but the law that treated this matter we didn't have. The third thing, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the UN organisation, and it is high time that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina understand that we have, not only the rights resulting from it, but also very clear obligations. And that, among other things, was very clear in the reasoning of this Law, citing the decisions of the UN General Assembly, in particular the Resolution on the Denial of the Holocaust, because do not forget this Law, therefore, is a law that should be banned, among other things, and the denial of the Holocaust in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What, therefore, are the key essential characteristics of this Law? Number one is the implementation of international obligations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which cannot be guessed and which must be consistently respected. The other essential feature of this Law is that it respects all innocent victims, regardless of what faith and nations are. Third, that he strives to build a society of justice, peace and solidarity among people. The fourth characteristic is that this law, if we adopt it, should be a function of promoting security for all people in this country. And finally, one of his characteristics is to prevent crimes and genocide in the future. That might be the most important thing. And I don't believe that anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the interest, in any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that this country has no law that prevents it. I absolutely think it's the strategic vital interest of every nation in this country and every citizen. So this law should also prevent further injuries to victims, but I also repeat, and should prevent possible new crimes and genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And therefore, there really are countless reasons why we should accept it. In the end, we haven't talked much about it, but we are a country moving towards the EU, we want to accept European legislation. We have stated very extensively what the situation in EU countries is, from a German who has very clearly sanctioned it, Austria, Italy, which by the Constitution banned the denial of holocausts and fascism, the Spanish criminal law, the French, the Belgian, etc., not to take it. So I think there are countless reasons why we need to accept this law today in our first reading, and then in the second reading, let us pay attention to that law, possibly to amendments, to make it even better. Of course, what the esteemed colleague Rančić was talking about makes a lot of sense, and we've been considering it, etc. Or if there is a chance that we are considering this Law in another reading, I think that all of this should be translated into amendments, because this Law will ultimately not belong to any MP, not to any political party, but to this country and to the people of this country. He's meant for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12804	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 19th point. 22 Moving to 20, Ad. 20. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties – Proposer: Members of the Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of Election Law, MPs: Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović, Act No: 01-02-1033/16, of 04.04.2016. (First Reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 04.04.2016. On 07.04.2016, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, which found that it was in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Consistency of the Bill with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system on 26 April 2016. The Commission for Finance and Budgets delivered its Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on 21 April 2016. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to point 21, Ad. 21. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-124/15, of 10.12.2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12810	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a representative who has followed the work of the Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights over persons who exercise criminal sanctions, I dare say that all those recommendations that we made in previous years, in terms of some minor objections and the need for corrections, and in terms of the protection of human rights of persons who, therefore, have been detained, I think there has been significant progress in the work of that Commission. I believe that most of the Commission's recommendations for the protection of human rights are respected by the Commission, which conducts the supervision, and in one segment, the recommendations did not come not by their own fault, but by the guilt of the institutions to which those recommendations were addressed. What is important is to point out that they have conducted very correct supervision, visited all these institutions, recorded all the objections they have and had good co-operation with the Ombudsman Institution, and excellent co-operation, I must say, with the Joint Commission for the Protection of Human Rights. So I think there's been progress, significant progress, and this report is good, and we should support it today. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12811	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12812	Well, I must admit that up until now when the report of this independent body, which the Parliamentary Assembly has formed with such an inconsistent long name, is really a problem to say to the Independent Commission for Monitoring the conditions of residence in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, so I have to say this, so far I have not been paying particular attention, but after what happened recently in Zenica, when Orthodox Easter was attacked by Serb convicts, then I quickly, firstly rushed to look at what the Commission did on the tour of KPZ Zenica, what its observations were on that plan and what she recommended. However, I must admit I was surprised. This is the first time that we have a Commission that has held only seven sessions and that, as far as work is concerned, which, its task, is the tour of criminal and correctional institutions, has been carried out three announced visits, Doboj, KPZ Doboj, KPZ Oresje and KPZ Bijeljina and one unannounced, and this is the Unit for the construction of the state prison, and there is just no Zenica. And then I took a 2014 report from the Ombudsman, and here I am glad that the current minister is a former member of this body, and then I saw that for KPZ, the Commission gave some 15 recommendations, of which five, three were implemented in some partial work were, and seven were not realised. And wasn't it logical to expect that, that's the biggest Bureau, wasn't it logical to expect the Commission to go first to check what was done there? So it is obvious that the Commission has chosen a path that is simpler and easier and that it is difficult to go where you have so many objections and so many problems and that it has decided not to go there. This is not the way this Commission should work, and this is not why we as Parliament have decided to form such a body. So we should have full information about what's going on in every office, so I could find out more from the Ombudsman's report than from the Commission report that did, which should be her only task. I've been looking at the volume, almost 40% is a bigger report that the previous commission has been working on than this one now. So both by quantity and by quality is significantly less than it was. We need to know what's going on out there, we need to get answers as to how it's possible to break into the afternoons in the rooms where the convicts are staying, how is it possible to, where are the guards? If one of the recommendations is to increase the number of staff in Zenica, then it should not, and that means it is not met, it means we can expect when it will happen next time. And it's not the first attack in Zenica, it's been happening countless times. So are we finally gonna put an end to it? So, I think that this Commission is in this reporting period, respecting even that there has been a shift, that there has been a choice of new members of the Commission, but that they had to show, therefore, that the base is the basis for the work carried out by the Commission and that they certainly had to visit the KP Zenica, because there would be, and look back at those recommendations they made the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12813	Thank you. Moving to the 25th point of the agenda, 25 Ad. 25. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of the two PSBiH homes to review the work of the Independent PSBiH Committee, issue: 01,02-50-19-10044/16, of 04.04.2016. The report was delivered in the procedure 04.04. The Interim Joint Commission delivered its opinion 04.04.2016. The Commission decided to refer the report to Dom with the following conclusions: 1. It is concluded that the Independent Committee has not acted in accordance with its Rules of Procedure as regards the regularity of the meeting. 2. The independent committee did not initiate a disciplinary procedure when there were obvious reasons and clear legal obligations. 3. The interim joint commission finds it necessary to implement the amendments to the Law on Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Structure, which would make it more clear to the bodies and procedures for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings against the managers and deputy police officers. 4. The interim joint committee believes that the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following the review of this report, should decide on the sanctioning of the Independent Committee due to perceived failures in the work of the Independent Committee and its members, including the replacement of members of the Independent Committee. I'm opening a debate. First came the message from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12815	I thank the chairman. Here, I will, as the chairperson of the Commission, get to know a little more about the representatives and MPs on the way and methodology of this Commission's work, which has been tasked with reviewing the work of the Independent Committee. So we had a total of five sessions. Ours, after the constitution of this Commission, we agreed to take a closer look at the situation on the Independent Committee to deliver all the documents and all the documentation that is adequate for us to engage, to say, in research, why the Commission was in charge. After taking into account the documentation submitted, we found that the Independent Committee did not act in accordance with the law or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee. This means that the prescribed provision in the Rules of Procedure is, at least once a month, in accordance with the law that the meetings of the Independent Committee should be held. This was not the case, nor was there any indication through the 2014 and 2015 Work Report that the members of the Independent Committee, not to mention the president himself, warned that they could not hold one month of meetings where they should discuss what they are in charge of and what their legal jurisdiction is. Therefore, the intensity was in the past, at one of the previous sessions, that before considering the 2015 Work Report, this esteemed House was introduced to this Report, so when it is taken into account that they continue to state that they were doing their duty in good time, that they were working in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, that they had quorum or lack of quorum, but for objective reasons they cannot indicate why there was no support for some initiatives, I believe that this House today will be more detailed and consistent with this and will respond to future reports on the 26 work of this Independent Committee. So, in addition to being unable to meet at least once a month, Mr Krunić was invited to a meeting together with members and members of the Independent Committee, but other than Mr Krunić, who is the chairman of the Independent Committee, and the only member of the Independent Committee, no one else came to that meeting in order to familiarise ourselves orally with further ambiguities, i.e. to get some answers to what was not clear to us in the Commission. At that meeting, Mr Krunić pointed out that we, as the Commission, believe that they have violated the business provision at least once a month, it does not need to stand in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee and that the provision is excessive, but has never initiated a single amendment or addition of the Rules of Procedure for these two mandates. Well, if he thinks he's too tall, he should've done something about it. In addition, in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014 we witnessed that there were protests, there were various events, an attack on Serbian Prime Minister Mr. Vučić. In all these events where the Independent Committee was to respond automatically, to call emergency sessions, then the Independent Committee does not have one session after four months, or has calls to call the meeting, and immediately a few days after the call comes the information that it is cancelled for unknown reasons. So all of this raises doubts at all about the need for such an independent committee that I don't really know who and what it's more dependent on. So his, his name, independent, leads to doubt, because everything they've done so far does not show that they were independent, that they reacted, that they did what the legal provision and prescribed. Why is it called into question as a body, and not only is it, the president of the Independent Committee, who is in charge of the management and legality of the work of the Independent Committee? For one simple reason, because the 2014 Work Report could not have been adopted for a year. When you pass through the records of the Independent Committee, it is seen that this body, with all its members and members, cannot adopt its own Work Report for a year, and through the minutes, mentions and gives itself the task of submitting observations to the Work Report in 7 days, which no member or member has ever done. This calls into question responsibility in the work of an independent body and then raises questions as to why it was never initiated that the Parliamentary Assembly, if they had not already been able to work consistently, should include a legislative body that would assist them and remove their obstacles to work. That is why in the Commission with 6 members, 5 members and members voted in favour of this Report, 1 member was abstention, and all of what you initially counted as our conclusions we believe this House will accept our conclusions and remove all of what we have concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12816	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12817	So, I'd just like to say a few things to my colleague. How much politics has taken over like this, it's an example of the Independent Committee. I remember the time when he was founded and precisely because there wouldn't be too much politics, because that would not be allowed for the Council of Ministers to appoint police racers, and the replacement of police agency directors, then a decision was made to form such an independent body that, without much policy, would carry out the job. Where are we today? Let's see where we are. And today it's a political decision and this Commission that did it. Did he, did he have to change his Rules of Procedure? They did. And were they dealing with all the issues that were crucial and problematic? They did. Why isn't the sanctioned conduct of the Co-ordination Directorate during the attack on Serbia's prime minister? Because the Bosniak members of this Commission did not support 27. So, the Minister of Security even asked that, to sanction, we failed. Here, therefore, good intentions are good until the vote is voted, and then we all split up by national seams and each vote by guarding its own. And there's no such thing as work, no protection of police, no director of police agencies that way. The work we entrusted to the Independent Committee and we trusted it to do so, and we were satisfied with it, so the Commission, I must, on behalf of the Joint Committee on Defence and Security, which was very often engaged in the Independent Committee, so we were often engaged and we were familiar with all the problems that were going on in the police agencies. Everything that was a problem was mostly politics. So there's no solution, only those where politics didn't let the Independent Committee do the right thing. Were... instead of 10 sessions they had, so they should have been 12, I don't see that working body, founded by Parliament or not, that has 12 in a year. No, no one held 12 sessions in a year. So, I think here's one of the reports... we're working with these ad hoc commissions we're making, and without seeing, I think, a problem in general. I think that the Independent Committee, as the body involved, should be preserved, because at least in a few, it will succeed in hiding and moving away from us MPs, not to bring down that last institution that deals with the election and replacement of the director of police agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12818	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12819	Well, here's a clean friend of Majkić. If my colleague Majkić believes this is the political decision of this Commission, the Ad hoc commission which has been dealing with the review of the work of the Independent Committee and I can also say that the Ad hoc commission dealing with the appointment of members of the Independent Committee is also politically mounted, so everyone in the Independent Committee is politically mounted. So that's where we come in. If it had been politically mounted for me, it would have been if we in this Ad hoc commission, which dealt with the review of the work of the Independent Committee, had agreed to justify their unhappiness, which is politically mounted. But the work and the research, which is all black on white documents, I don't think we had any reason to do anything different. Furthermore, if you are already mentioning the action, that is to say, not acting for the replacement of the Director of the Police Coordination Directorate, it has become a practice of the Independent Committee. So, before the Director's replacement initiative, there was another initiative, and that was for Mr. Zubac's shift, which could not have come to the agenda the same, for the same reason you mentioned, because the Independent Committee was divided according to the ethnic principle. So when it comes to changing someone who's from that ethnic people, he can't come on the agenda, not even consider it. Uh, then he was removed when the court did everything he had to do, and then he reacted to the Independent Committee. Then the question arises why the Independent Committee if we wait for the court's rulings. Well, since it has become a practice so the Independent Committee continues with this practice, and while they are dealing with themselves, that is, they are doing nothing, and they are doing their business to come around the Parliamentary Assembly, taking fees for their labour, taking travel expenses, and everything else that follows them, and it costs the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina materially, but it costs all of us security situations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12820	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear colleague Majo, let me tell you, I don't know what your motives are for you now to stand as an opposition to this kind of attitude. I mean, it's completely illogical and unnatural, it's your right to be sure. I can agree with you that unfortunately for a little something in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at all in political action, it can be said that it is independent. It's, it's, but you know when the most direct addiction is going to show up here? By voting for the review of the Independent Committee, the vote for the review of the Independent Committee was a direct abolition of any, clear message anyone who does not work according to how some majority, I do not exempt the majority at all, orders, will be removed. I would, that's one thing. The second thing, the formalities you're talking about referencing sessions. Does this mean, does this mean that if, if we were just to meet, we met today to honor the Rules of Procedure and the next first of the month, we would meet again to respect the Rules of Procedure and then we would respect the Rules of Procedure and the legal provision of independent bodies and do so, or should it at least be a fundamental issue? Unfortunately, we don't have the determination here to act essentially. You know how I would welcome this, if this Commission had proposed that the current way of action, both in the current and earlier periods, did not show the confidence of the independent action, that it would propose to the Parliamentary Assembly to amend the law and that the members of the Independent Committee were appointed by 2/3 of the votes in the House of Representatives, then the capacity and independence of this body would be significantly higher. Every other approach to this is to destroy independence as it is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12822	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12823	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome my colleagues and colleagues, present members of the Council of Ministers and representatives of other institutions. We were also against the election of the Ad hoc commission, believing that there was sufficient capacity in Parliament and that we were using the Rules of Procedure and that the competent authorities were submitting a report to Parliament. We are witnessing that, following the arrest of certain people, there has been a problem in this country and according to the directors of some police agencies, and in the very structure of the Independent Committee. And we're witnessing all of it. Today's discussion, I'm not sure that anyone we defend or any attitudes to defend, will contribute to any universal approach, I'm not sure. But what we need to talk about is the fact that obviously this is the product of a particular media campaign against certain people. We have just found that when it comes to the Commission following the conditions of being in prison, there were only six or seven sessions. If the Independent Committee had a small number of sessions in 2014 a number of questions are raised whether there was material for that session? Was there any material? I wouldn't want to comment on whether someone is credible or not 29. I want to believe because the House of Representatives gave the green light to name these people, that these people are credible people. This story of how the Independent Committee is ethnically divided, so what is not ethnically divided in this country, which is not divided. I don't think this is an excuse enough and this is not a good enough argument to open a process against people working on the Independent Committee. So why hasn't the Director Vilić been removed? For ethnic support. Is it true? So I don't think this is a good model for the House of Representatives to discuss in this way, first of all, to form an Ad hoc commission because we've had every opportunity to discuss this at a House of Representatives session on a regular basis, why it puts the majority into the political purpose of some of the relations in this country and that's a question, but we know well where it all came from. I believe that people should be allowed to work professionally, crediblely, to submit a report to this Parliament, not in this way, because I believe that if we enter and implement a certain type of conclusion, which is being prepared, that only one or two names will change in the Independent Committee, and that the rest of the structure will remain the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12824	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12825	I thank the chairman. I have to say, I'm pretty confused. That this Independent Committee worked ideally, had a large kick called reacting or acting in the event of an attack on Serbian Prime Minister Mr. Vučić. And just because this Independent Committee proved unable to replace the director of the agency deserved to leave. And that's why I'm surprised by SNSD's reaction. Do we want the Director of the Directorate gone or not? Who's gonna take him out? The Independent Committee, this Independent Committee will not. They say everything is divided by ethnic principles... Independent committee. Well, it's not true, people, so here's a report from the Commission that both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak sat in, and with one abstention they said that the Independent Committee should go. Which means, from that point on, I conclude that neither fellow Bošnjak nor Hrvat stand behind those members there who disobeyed the law and acted according to the law. Do we want the Director of the Directorate to be told because the Directorate has not done what needs to be done in the event of an attack on Prime Minister Vučić? Here we have the support, we have the support to change the board, to have someone else shift it. But obviously, it seems to me that neither the Bošnjak nor the Hrvat here protect Mr. Vilić, but that he is protected by the SNSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12826	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12827	Well, all I wanted was my esteemed colleague, Prodanović, what's my motive? My personal motive is nothing, nor is this report, the report by Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, but is the Commission's report that was in charge of reviewing the work. And what is my position if you ask personally from the Democratic 30 Front, then the opposition? That is either or, I would say, the difference in thinking generationally or is the difference in party attitude and principle, because our attitude and principle is the depolitisation of all institutions, especially independent bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we don't even have that confirmation anymore, nor is it the certainty that independent bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not, is it, part of politics. On the other hand, thanks to counterpart Pandurević, she said most of it. So, in the Rules of Procedure of Labour, you have every opportunity in the law to initiate strict, disciplinary proceedings against police authorities. Who does that? That's what the Independent Committee does. Even when the Minister of Security initiates them to put on the agenda and send initiatives, they absolutely do not consider it. And if you ask me what my principle or attitude is, why do I advocate to finally get rid of something and take the right path to Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I can ask you – What is your view of holding the status quo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12828	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12829	So, colleague Pandurević, there's some things he needs to know before the man comments. The independent committee was supposed to be working on a report from the Police Body Coordination Directorate, which she didn't deliver. The Independent Committee can't do it by heart based on media reports, because his jurisdiction is to shift the racer of the police agency. To do so well, he has to get a bill. He didn't get the report. How can it work, based on what the Independent Committee can do if the report doesn't come? And you know why he didn't come? Because the members who voted against were told, "Don't let that be a reason for you to relieve me." And so, look at the composition of who was in the commission that discussed it. So, we need to replace everything, and that's why I said we need to replace it, there's no rational reason, we need to make a political decision to change everyone, because we need to set up new ones. And you know what it's like, because that's what the parliamentary majority decides about, I don't really know where the DF came from, but that's what happened. So no one's defending anyone, that's enough, now that you tell anyone that one of the directors of one agency hasn't been removed and what happened in Potocari happened, so there's no force that could save him in a democratic country, that applies to everything except Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it will happen again, again two members from one party will vote not to make that change no matter how big the error of the police agency's racer is.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12830	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12831	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I feel like I really need to be on the job, since I was a member of this Independent Committee, I say at least one sentence. First of all, here are the clear and unambiguous facts of non-compliance in accordance with the law and the non-compliance with the 31 rules. So that's quite clear, and all of us who were on this Independent Committee based on documents, not on gossip and media, according to our colleague, have concluded what we have concluded. And let me tell you that we came to this conclusion with a full consensus, so we sought, of course with one abstention, a colleague who participated in the work of the Commission, of course had his own kind of attitude, which I did not slow down, but we had far more stringent attitudes and this was the least possible form that we could determine regarding the work of the Independent Committee. Therefore, it has the responsibility of this Committee for Inaction, for non-compliance, for non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure. And what else remains but to be replaced. So that's the epilogue, that's the conclusion. Will this practice continue to be confirmed? If we, as Parliament, accept that things are happening like this, then they will, if we change things, so there will come a time when the Independent Committee will do its job. The obligation of this Parliament is, above all, to request the conduct of all those institutions that should comply with the law. Just like that, only if you think this Independent Committee should determine the Parliamentary Assembly in which way it will work. In my view, failure to fulfil obligations that were completely clear and unequivocally regulated by the Rules of Procedure, by law, by their obligations, because only because of their insubordination should they be replaced because they were not doing anything, which they were supposed to do, had the most serious part of the work at the time of these events that we had in Bosnia and Herzegovina when the Independent Committee was to act. He didn't act, and that's why he needs to be replaced.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12832	Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12833	Thank you, Chairman. The least I intend to do is discuss and enter conflicts of political dimensions in the BiH Parliament with some who come from Republika Srpska. We have enough space in Republika Srpska to discuss these issues there. But, I mean, if anyone was asking a question about what happened to the subject of the attack on President Vučić, that's what I was doing here in Parliament, asking parliamentary questions, I haven't often been able to, given that there was not a minister of security whom I had a lot to ask about..., of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers about some of the same things about this event. We are for the shift of Director Vilić, there is no dilemma. Every normal person in this country is for the replacement of Director Vilić, but I am not convinced, nor sure that, if we change the Independent Committee, those who today consider that the Independent Committee should be replaced have the guarantee that the Vilić will be removed, if we look at the course of the debate and the way of the decision-making in the Independent Committee itself. And that's what I wanted to talk to you about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12834	Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12835	Chairman, so you haven't convinced me anything about what you're saying, so nothing, I don't think you... you don't believe me, I'll apologize to everyone when I see that in this country, and we'll be here for at least two more years, being the independent body's unique position on a particular issue. There's no theoretical chance that a procedure could be completed by the Director of the Police Force Coordination Unit, no theory, so no. Here, let me see if I should have done that. Well, it was supposed to be an international incident. Should we, did we have an epilogue of previous demonstrations and burning buildings? We've been sanctioned, but we won't see it here either, here in this second case we won't see a trial of any responsibility. I, therefore, will believe that if 32 institutionally, we legally define the position of independent bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that no one, nor the SNSD, can decide alone, not any political party, but 2/3 of the MPs in the House of Representatives. It's only meaningful, this other story has absolutely nothing... It's decommissioning... what... message... I was an MP when this law was passed. You know what the conditions for visa liberalisation and independent bodies were? We have not shown the independent action of an extremely important institution. If you're asking me if we could've done more, we should've. Not that we could, and we should have, if you're asking me if we should've worked more, a thousand times more we should've all worked. Are we working hard enough now? I'm not sure. Are we getting paid? Well, we do. As we change the burden of compensation for members of the Independent Committee here we are, here I am going to go... So, I'm not saying... the process for that, but it's a total devastation of the highest legislative body if we think that some body, which was appointed in the previous majority,... They should be named, therefore, in an interspace where at least they'll have such a sense of security that they can't be replaced because now they've all joined in that... Are they good? Oh, it's perfectly uninterested... here. I have to tell you right away, I would like to insist, therefore on responsibility, including burning, uh, state, or entity, or cantonal institutions in Sarajevo. There's nothing to talk about. What kind of message do we send to the public if we don't have an epilogue? Should the law be changed? So you need to change it the moment it shows up... That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12836	Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12837	Thank you very much. Often we all say that we are for the independent work of independent institutions, and that would mean that we do not politically interfere in their work. One of the bodies called the Independent Committee would have to be independent, but then we here, any of us, shouldn't say what they need to do, whether we're for the shift of one, the other, the third or any of the directors of the police bodies. Dear colleagues,..., colleagues Prodanović and Košarac say Vilić mention him, there are other directors, and there were other directors in previous mandates. Any statement by any MP or politician saying someone should be replaced or not replaced is precisely political interference in the work of the Independent Committee. ...by law those from the Independent Committee responsible for monitoring the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police chiefs and for launching these disciplinary procedures. Let's go back a little bit to the point, one of the directors mentioned. Namely, this body followed the work of all directors, and in some previous time it was a controversial monitoring of the work of one of the directors of one agency. Here, after a while and another director at another police agency. To take us back a little bit, one deputy director, I deliberately don't mention names, one police agency for pressing charges was suspended by the Independent Committee. It's their job. The court case proved that the man was not guilty and was released, but never returned to that place. It was the work and jurisdiction of the Independent Committee. In the second case, after the indictment, including the judicial, pardon, and the first-degree verdict, the Independent Committee did not want to act in the same way as in the first case of the deputy. They haven't met in months, and they couldn't make a decision. So, I leave them their jurisdiction and I don't want to decide whether any of the directors should be removed or not, whether or not suspended, that's their jurisdiction, but they have to do it, not after six months of not meeting. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12838	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12839	I have to say that a lot of debaters have talked about what the Independent Committee hasn't done, what the security authorities in this country don't do well, and I want to replicate on these issues. I don't think there are any independent committees and these security authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that can repair the damage the political oligarchies are doing in this country. And look at the debate at this House session, how many debaters came from one-sided positions, selectively, inexplicably, unprincipledly. And that's the message we're sending on the air. Some talk about the attack on Vučić, but they don't talk about who tried to kill Bakir Hasečić a few days ago. Is there an investigation into who killed Murat Badrić on May 7th in Banja Luka. There isn't. So, we don't have an objective, realistic approach, and in a situation like this, it's no wonder that we have organs like the Independent Committee and others that can't even work past these political oligarchies their work properly. And we even heard statements, during this debate, as a question – what is not ethnically divided in this country, implying that everything is ethnically divided. This is directly contrary to what we swore at the first session of the House, because the Constitution of BiH does not say that this is ethnically divided, but that this country belongs to all citizens and peoples throughout the territory. As far as I know, it even says in the entity's constitutions. Here, therefore, is the main problem in the authorities, specifically here and at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, not in the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12840	Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12841	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman. I really don't know which direction this debate is going, or how it's supposed to end. We formed the Committee, the Committee proposed conclusions. kolega Rančić says the discussion on the work of the Independent Committee can be seen as political pressure on the Independent Committee. If that's how we formed this committee to discuss it, analyze their work, etc., if it's political pressure. Any body that we have formed here can be the subject of our attention, its work can be the subject of our attention and ours, under alleged signs, investigations, or analysis, as well as this Committee. And it has nothing to do with political pressure for me, and especially not with the Committee's independence, because the Committee wasn't an independent committee, and that's the bottom line, in my opinion, of what it says here. If we had, we probably wouldn't be discussing this today, and there wouldn't even be this report and there wouldn't be any formation of this commission. What I also can't, I really can't understand sometimes, my colleague Bećirović, I don't understand that we don't care about our reputation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Imagine what message we're sending to the world when the prime minister of another country comes and we're making it here a little bit like that a few times, and we expect the Prime Minister of every other country to come to this country eager to come back again. Come on, please. And to compare that with individual cases, we put it in the context of individual cases here that should also be solved, and they are not solved, and they are not subject to political pressure on non-resolvement, but this Committee and all others need to solve these cases as well. But don't, please, let's equalize something that affects the reputation of this country in the world, not to Serbia, your relations with Serbia are clear to me and you don't even need to say anything else in this Parliament's life you've said enough about it and I don't want to make it up to you. I'm only talking about comparing any prime minister who comes and 34 of any foreign diplomat who comes into this country and attacks him with, I don't know, individual excursions to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12842	Thank you. I must warn you that MP Hanko Vajzović has been waiting very long, that we have entered discussions through replicas, i.e. correcting false allegations, and I think that, here's whoever is... reporting two or three times. I would like to remind you that we have another session ahead of us. So, the correction of the wrong allegations, Ambassador Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12843	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Novaković, I didn't tell you what you're saying, look at the transcript, you'll see for yourself. I will repeat what I have said – any statement by politicians, MPs, in a way to publicly say – I believe that it is necessary to replace that and that director, and any director of the police agency, or I believe that the Management Board should do so, I said and I believe that it is a political interference in the work of the Independent Committee, because MPs and Parliament are not authorized to do so. It's explicit in the authority of the Independent Committee. And in the second part, I fully agree with your statement, so if we let them work independently, okay, but they need to account us and our debate on their work, either on their report on work, which unfortunately could not have been drawn up and delivered to this Parliament for 2015, or debate on their work on the work of the Joint, here, ad hoc commission is not an interference in their work. So we have the right to consider their work and to make an assessment. If they've done good work,...they haven't done well everyone should suffer the consequences of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12844	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12845	Thank you. So, I was going to tell my Hazim that I had the same experience as Mr. Novaković. But it wasn't just Mr. Hazim saying it in this House, but often we hide behind it. I think that we in Parliament have the right to talk about anything and in any way, and the other thing is if... we ask a member of an independent body to do so on our orders. So, we're Parliament, when we talk about the media, we don't have the right because they're independent, we don't have the right to talk about the prosecution because they're independent, when we talk about the courts, so what do we have the right to say here? So this is Parliament, I think we have the right to talk about every topic that, and about every issue that happens in this society and... and all phenomena. And our excuses, our thoughts expressed here, our message, our search, that doesn't necessarily mean that gentlemen from any independent body should do so. So let's show that she's independent, not to be protected like, I don't know, a special species and then he's independent, right? So, let it be, let it have dignity and act according to the law as it is said, as it says... And if we were to talk, I don't agree with that, and every once in a while, 35, we take away the right to talk about some things. Well, we're Parliament here, I think we're the most invited to do anything about how we talk here and to draw attention to these phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12846	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12847	Since counterpart Novaković obviously did not follow the entire course of my discussion, I only have to repeat it once more. So, my core message was, and I repeat it once again, is that for the reputation and security of this country, which you spoke of to colleague Novaković, we must fight fully, comprehensively and in principle, and not in any way selectively and unilaterally. And I repeat that one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12848	Ambassador Hanka Vajzović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12849	Thank you, Chairman. Here's today's debate shows that it makes sense to talk about the work of independent bodies, about the work of committees, and I also think that we must, not that we can, but we must. However, I have not listened to so much politics and so much contradiction for these years and for this term. Before I say what I was planning to say, the few just as a confirmation of what I said, says colleague Košarac – they did not have a session. Question – was there material? Was there material if we had events on February 7th and they scheduled an emergency session in June to discuss February 7th? So Mrs. Majkić says they couldn't replace Mr. Vilić because the co-ordination didn't deliver the report. Well, that was the reason they were replacing them for not delivering the report. Mr. Prodanović says -- there is no theoretical chance that an independent committee will be unique. Of course, because they're not independent, etc. Anyway, the Independent Committee, the one we're talking about, has power. We're all aware of that. Practically, it rules the police agencies, has the right to no obligation and, from mandate to mandate, it mostly changes, spins, some of the same people. Since I, almost a full year ago in June last year, asked for this Commission to be formed, for a reason, there was also an argument, which will review the work of the Independent Committee, today I can say that I am very pleased with what the Commission did, the Commission chaired by my colleague, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, very professionally, very correctly, in fact remained all of my objections to the work of the Independent Committee, and about already others spoke of them. He didn't adopt to the other half, they couldn't agree on what they were doing so they could adopt their own report, so then, they're not independent, in conflict of interest, quite certainly, very detailedly, they can be determined that these are people from certain party structures, they didn't work, and that's proven, of course they were very seriously paid. And now that we've passed this bill of amendments, the Law of Salaries and Compensations of Independent Committeemen rebel, it's little to them, they'd keep on saying, so we don't have to meet, so here we come sometimes. What I've actually reported, I'm glad that all the arguments, all the certificates have also been found in the report of the committee that was working, ad hoc, the Joint Committee, and I'm going to support 36 of course their report, and at the next session, I think, most likely to launch the initiative, is not just an independent committee, we have a Board of Appeals and Adversities, yet what should be reconsidered, not just their work, but the justification of existence. I say it is less dependent on the Defence and Security Commission from different parties than it was from this Independent Committee. Well, maybe that's the kind of solution. If the OSA can be seen by the Commission from this Parliament, something may change as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12850	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think it should be pointed out that probably none of us are satisfied with the work of the Independent Committee, but this is not about satisfaction or dissatisfaction, but about acting in accordance with the law. Here's when it comes to the satisfaction of saying that I'm not satisfied with the work of the Independent Committee either, they eventually had a scandalous decision that the involvement of armed special forces in a newspaper is not a pressure on the media. So what are we talking about if we talk about the quality of their work? However, we are not talking about the quality of their work here, we are talking about a report that says a complete Independent Committee should be replaced. So this is all about action, whether or not we act in accordance with the law or political motivations of a particular party, specifically the DF. And I remind you, no one here has spoken of the law of the independent bodies of the police structure. Many today, especially the representatives of the DF, have called for the law, no one has said the name of the law. ... you're wondering if you know it's called the law on independent bodies of police structure. And nobody seems to remember how this whole story started. And the whole story started as a DF initiative, and that was the first DF initiative in this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly, so over a year ago you launched this initiative, Mrs. Vajzović, and it was all before the attack on Mr. Vučić, right? Therefore, what does Vučić have to do with this story if you potentiate the case as if it were the most important for the replacement of the Independent Committee. I'm talking about the DF gentlemen. And the DF is the one who voted against Mr. Vučić's apology, and now it's like having Director Vilić shift because, I mean, there's absolutely no logic in all of this. I remind you that the SBB has been performing since the very beginning on this issue, now I am going back to this whether we are going to act in accordance with the law or political motivations, and the commission has been formed to install the DF into the Independent Committee its member. So motivation is purely political. And what does the law say? There is no legal basis for the replacement of the complete Independent Committee, thus directly disrupting, not only the principle of independence of that body, but you are also jeopardising the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I don't know which one of you remembers but the adoption of the Act on Independent Authorities of BiH Police Structure which regulates, which regulates this matter, was an explicit condition for paraphrasing the SAA, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina with the EU. And only when OHR representatives pointed out all of this, in talks with all political parties, did they all slowly come to our views regarding acting in accordance with the law, not expressing satisfaction or dissatisfaction. I said, we're particularly unhappy with the work of the Independent Committee when it comes to the attack of special forces in the independent media, but we stick to the law. In any case, just like Sutorin's SBB was right from the start on this matter, and everyone slowly comes to our point of view, which the OHR has told you all about. 37 And now finally to touch the questions of compensation to the Independent Committee. The question of compensation has been addressed by the SBB very adequately by our bill. Here, I'm also going to, uh, warn Mr. Sokolović, you're probably entitled to a replica, but the SBB has adequately resolved the question of compensation by our law. And this all shows that this law should not be diversified, as there seems to be some plans and attempts. If our Law had come into force earlier, then not only would the members of the Independent Committee not only receive no fantastic fees, but I would also remind the members of this Commission for reviewing the work of the Independent Committee not to receive benefits for working in that Commission, and some of them are, right? Therefore, when it comes to compensation, it may be wise for us all to return to the one... of the SBB proposal adopted in this Parliamentary Assembly and what issue has finally been resolved. And for this reason, it is still, today's discussion once again shows that this Law is in no way to be watered down, fees should not be paid during working hours and fees should not exceed the base level, or 475 marks per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12852	Correction of the wrong quote, Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12853	I just wanted to say that it's nice to talk and consistently about who a colleague of Arnaut comes to, but it's unwitting to say what, in this House, what doesn't stand at all, especially when you're yourself, you deny yourself. He says, when I put up with this initiative to form, and when I was even interested in the work of the Independent Committee, that the Vučić case didn't exist, he now says that we only insist on Mr. Vilić's shift, which none of us mentioned. So, um, what happened before, it doesn't make sense to talk like that. Of course, I allow someone to be dissatisfied with the work of the Independent Committee which is the incursion of the independent avaz, but he does not mind that the arson of the Presidency and everything else has happened. So who will be pleased when they do not work according to the law, nor do they work in the sights. And it was the only grudge. Now that we've come to this stage, then there's no point in saying what doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12854	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12855	...I must correct the false allegations of an esteemed colleague of Arnaut that the SBB has resolved the matter of compensation and that it is SBB's law. Dear fellow Arnaut, the matter of compensation has been resolved by this Parliament, has not passed the Law on Salaries and Refunds of the SBB Congress, but this Parliament. That's one thing. As far as other matters of SBB's law are concerned, I will remind you that you were the legislator of that law and that he was so bad, he had one member that all the members of the Finance and Budget Commission together made an amendment and completely changed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12856	Correction of the wrong quote, Salko Sokolović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12857	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, it's a replica to Mr. Arnaut. If I understand correctly, the Independent Committee is eternal, so this composition of the Independent Committee is eternal, whenever we come into a situation to change it, we will compromise the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Here, that's how I realized it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12858	Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12859	Here, very briefly, more to agree with Mrs. Pandurević, this one. I hope this indicates that you will not resort to the law adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but that we will leave it to live and show the savings we will have. And I hope that this story of this law, that is, the amendments and the additions, is over again. And thank you, thank you for what you said. As for Mr. Sokolović. Well, first of all, I'd like to ask you to read the law, Mr. Sokolović. So, the Act on Independent Authorities of BiH Police Structure 5 says -- that a member of the Independent Committee can be relieved of his duties, and then contains five basics. Therefore, a member of the Independent Committee may be relieved of his duties, and here we have a proposal for a conclusion that says that the sanctioning of the Independent Committee should be decided. Now that you've replicated me, why don't you go find me in the Act on the Independent Bodies of the BiH Police Structure where it says you can sanction a complete Independent Committee? So we here if we have a motion to replace one, two, three or more members then we can consider it. But it says here about sanctioning the body, which is the same as writing that the BiH presidency is being sanctioned, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is sanctioned, not individual members for what they did or didn't do. So, next time you're replicating me on the provisions of the law, I'm really most friendly to suggest that you read these provisions at least, or that the colleague Rančić, who knows it knows it, has now explained to you, that at least with a respected colleague, Rančić, you consult before you say these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12860	Predrag Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12861	Since I am a member of the Ad hoc commission who was restrained, I will try very plastically, quoting some sentences from this conclusion, to explain why I was abstentioned. See, point 2 of the conclusion says – The Independent Committee did not initiate the launch of a tight procedure when there were obvious reasons and clear legal obligations. I stress this clear legal obligation, because the next conclusion writes – The Interim Joint Commission finds it necessary to supplement the Law on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure in order to make it clear, prescribe the bodies and conduct of the tight procedure. So, what is very clear in Conclusion 2, in conclusion 3 needs to be made even more clear and made clear. So with this clarification of this abstention, I'm going to ask a few rhetorical questions 39 on this subject, because we've talked about this for a relatively long time. That in the work of the Independent Committee there were records of failures, that's absolutely correct. It is also evident from this debate, and the subject of the Independent Committee mentions that the most difficult and complex political and security problems in this country, the political and security problems that far more paid people, the far more well-paid institutions, the far-paid agencies, including this Parliament, are not in a position to address today. On the independence of the Independent Committee and independent bodies, it is for some other political and academic broad debate, but whether the Ad hoc commission that we have formed, so to speak, has been coloquially shaved from political attitudes and political instructions in its work. I don't think it's complete. And at least one theoretical setting about this, if you want one body that has in its prefix word independently to make it potentially independent anymore or make it truly independent. Then indeed, at a time when the government is changing, or when the parliamentary majority or the majority that has changed in power, it seems to me that by not changing that body, that body becomes more independent. That goes to what I also wanted to say, but not to repeat what my colleague Arnaut quoted from the law. It is really very important to think seriously when we are replacing an entire independent body related to police structures from these political parliamentary procedures. And that's why I really, and because of these obvious illogicalities, I'd say, in our conclusions, our work, but also these doubts, I've been restrained and so, in some ways, I'm going to be in voting...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12862	Thank you. Mensura Beganović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12863	I thank the chairman. I welcome those present. I would like to replicate to the gentleman, our esteemed representative Arnaut, regarding the quoting of the Law on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure Article 5. Since you have already reminded us of the (5) paragraph in this article, how you could have skipped (1) the article of this same article, which says – President, President, Vice-President and members of the Supervisory Board appoints and resolves the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH after the ad hoc commission appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly implements the procedure. And I am also asking that the chairman of our House of Representatives return the discussion to the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12864	Thank you. You're right about the ongoing discussion. Sadik Ahmetović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12865	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. osvrnuće will refer first to some of these discussions particularly held by Mr. Arnaut, that the change of the Independent Committee threatens the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. However, I think that the work or way of working of this Independent Committee threatens the Agreement, because not only this Independent Committee but all independent committees in Bosnia and Herzegovina are only about to be independent. It would be good to throw them out of this prefix independent so that they can be committees, so that in some democratic evolution in about a year, two, or three, or ten, that depends on us, they're independent. 40 I have an example that happened a few years ago when we had a choice for the director of SIPA. We had more candidates, so we had a director of the Federal Police Administration, the Serbian Ministry of the Republic of Serbia who got the best grades from their independent committees in the election of the director of the Federal Administration, the director of the Republika Srpska Ministry, Brcko District, and when they came to be examined by a state independent committee, they couldn't even cross the line to be qualified for the election. If they were, they're our absurdities, and we need to take care of it, and we need to think about why it's like that, and we need to take a good look at it, especially us here who choose this National Independent Committee bar. The question arises why do we so much defend these committees, police directors, directors of these security services, why do politics or individual politicians do and why do they need and want to have their own? That's the key question. As far as I'm concerned, I don't need mine, I need one who will do his job professionally and responsibly, to get this country out of the crisis in which it is, when it comes to organised crime, corruption, the fight against terrorism and everything that's been done by the Independent Committee and the Director of Police Agency. But if they compared the property of those who struggled to have their own, then they'd probably get an answer why they wanted their own and why they wanted to, to control them. This issue of responsibility of the Independent Committee, i.e. Director for Co-ordination before and Director of SIPA, is being passed all the time for some of the things that have been happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not going to defend any directors here, but we can't single out one of them when it comes to the Potocari and what was going on in the Potocari. So there were almost every police agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of them. The only agency that has no operational authority or any of their members, so a police officer has no operational jurisdiction are those in the Coordination Directorate. With this in mind, they cannot know unless they are notified by the Intelligence Service and those agencies that have the responsibility, that something is going to happen so that they can take action. Why don't we put the responsibility of those who needed information to warn and tell the Director of Coordination that he has to do otherwise?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12866	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12867	No, they're not, the problem is that you, Dušanka, don't get into it, we could open that question, so this is how you Facebook that face and if you want to go to Parliament. So, because everyone defends their own, because we don't want to set things up, we don't want to set things up the way she looks objectively. If everyone had responded to their mission, if everyone had informed those who had to inform, who have that authority, it would have been different. But we never opened those questions here, and I know the reasons why we didn't open it, why we're going back to it because everyone's defending their own. So what's the key question? The key question is how to choose and who to choose on the Independent Committee? If we choose him at the College's proposal, I don't know if he's independent. If we all say it is, if we convince those who gave us that condition, and the condition was when we worked visa-free regimes, then we can say, here's what we've met the European principle. But opening the debate, the key thing is to open the debate as well as how the Independent Committee is elected and who can be on the Independent Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12868	Ma'amMaja it says here that this is your second discussion and you have no right to another discussion. 41 Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12869	I'll do it very briefly, so I have no intention of really saying a lot. Dilema, if the report before you is adopted, and it is in its conclusion, among other things – the Interim Joint Commission believes that the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly should decide on sanctioning the Independent Committee because of perceived failures in the work of the Independent Committee and its members, including the Committee's replacement. If this Izvješta is adopted, is it considered to have been removed by the Independent Committee? If not, is there any need to make a decision on the resolution of the members of the Independent Committee? So, uh, it's just a dilemma, we've heard everything else, so I think that's quite enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12870	Okay, here's the final hearing. Just to clarify what MP Bojić said, we are adopting the Commission's conclusions today, it must also be done by the House of Peoples, only after that would the decision on the shift be made. We're moving to the 26th agenda, Ad. 26. Information on the potential for testing (pilot-project) advanced technologies in the 2016 local elections in BiH – applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01-50-1-522/16, since 09.03.2016. The House College has been designated by the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent to consider the information. The competent Commission forwarded Opinion 04/04/2016. The Commission has unanimously received information and proposes to the House its receipt of knowledge. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Mensura Beganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12872	I thank the chairman. I am very pleased that we have come to this information, although we have had the opportunity to address something on this topic earlier on this High House regarding the introduction of new technologies in the process of elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would just like to make two suggestions and suggestions, I understand that this is just information that the House is receiving to know, but on a proposal for a solution that, to form an interresor working group to find and propose the models of the introduction of new technologies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has made an Interresor Working Group in which I believe that someone from the Ministry of Communications and Transport should be found, especially from the Communication and Information Sector, given that this whole process is strong, the process of introducing new technologies into the electoral processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina is based precisely on information technologies, on digital literacy, that I do not take this up further. 42 Another thing I would like to explain, to propose here, and I do not see that it has been processed, and if it is the Central Election Commission that it is necessary to amend the Election Law, to take advantage of the opportunity for the amendments that are now under way to be added to the Election Law and this part that provides for the introduction of new technologies into the electoral process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This really shouldn't be some particular problem that requires any detailed consideration, or any alignment between different sides, it's something that I think we can very easily change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12873	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12874	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Very short. First of all, I welcome this information, it is highly prepared, but on page 6, it says it is prepared for Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut's initiative, so I just don't know if Mrs Pandurević will mind, because she did adopt the House of Representatives on my initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12875	MP Dušanka Majkić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12876	So we are already receiving this information on several occasions and we are more aware of it as something that is in the process, which is being analysed, trying to come up with a solution, given that many democratic countries have not successfully solved this job. We have an example of Germany that still has a very old-fashioned way of voting. The moment voters are, I don't know the pen or anything else, they use it as a model and when the database is formed, and you're not sure how they handle that database, then we can get into a lot of trouble and trouble. So, you can fine-tun the election result to whoever you want and whatever you want. The seriousness of this process requires much more studio co-operation, and cannot be reconciled with the fact that it remains entirely in the power of only the Central Election Commission. Will a group that, ad hoc commission that will be formed, formed by the Council of Ministers, Parliament and the Central Election Commission be sufficient to analyse all these problems and to deal with them, I would rather say if I looked at the composition yes, because the number of informers who would have to be involved to just prevent what this material is talking about and that very easily could happen to the database. So the seriousness of this job requires that we be very involved in it. When will the first tests be able to be carried out, how will these tests be carried out, in which area and ultimately as the basic thing that this project costs? We have the opinion of the members of the Central Election Commission who say it's a secret, but I've been informed that it's about 70 million and that it's, in six years, that it has to be renewed. So these are all the elements we're going to have to have in front of us before we make a definitive decision. So, what's to expect is that it's good to inform ourselves, but it's also to expect everyone who can help in this to get involved in order to avoid any problems that we can have later. Because it's gonna be bad to bring the procedure to an end, and then we realize that there have been such mistakes that can cost us all. So we don't want that for sure. My biggest point is that most countries, we cite as an example 43 of one of the countries that introduced the system, it is not enough, it is a newer EU member state. But why don't these standard countries use what this is all about? So that's all the information that needs to be delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12877	Thank you. We're moving to agenda 27, Ad. 27. Information on International Labour Organisation Recommendation No 204 on the transition from informal to formal economy, adopted at the 104th session of the IOR – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue 01-22-1642/15, since 29.12.2015. The House College has designated the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development as competent to consider. The Commission submitted its opinion on 07.04.2016. The Commission unanimously received information and referred it to a further procedure. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to agenda 28th, Ad. 28. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both homes of the PSBiH to conduct procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-868-12,1/16, of 06.04.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12880	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen. Here, as rapporteur, I'd like to introduce you to the course and procedure. So, at the 12th session, held on 05.04.2016, the Commission unanimously adopted the proposal for a list of candidates for the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, of course with an insight into documentation, ie biography and an interview. The rank-list looks as follows: means the first-placed is Dževad Zečić – Bošnjak, a regular professor, the Rector of the University of Zenica; second-placed Zoran Tomić of the Croatian people, also a regular professor, Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Mostar; and from the order of the Serbian people a single amendment has been proposed, which was agreed by the Kolegijum of the dom, which is instead of Momčilo Poljić who gave up, 44 is proposed by Branko Krsmanović, the next regular professor, director of the University of East Sarajevo. That's a short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12881	I'm closing the debate. We move on to the 28th point – The report on the determination, and not that is the 28th point, the 29th point, Ad. 29. Consideration of Denis Bećirović and Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 17.03.2016, which reads: "The BiH Ministry of Security is in charge, that within thirty (30) days of the adoption of this initiative at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives, the information on the activities of organisations and groups that extend religious, national or any other hatred in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina.", number: 01-50-1-881/16 The dom Kolegijum has appointed the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH as responsible for considering this initiative. The Commission submitted its opinion on the initiative on 25.04.2016. The Commission supported the initiative and forwarded it to further proceedings. I'm opening a debate. I conclude, Senad Šepić, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12883	Here's a very short one. So, when it comes to this area, we have a problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we are all aware of that. When the problem arises, then we try to react accordingly. I think the key is how we can do this and we need to finally, uh, finally pass a certain law that would sanction all these phenomena, namely these phenomena legally regulated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Last time I discussed this issue, it was in March, then the chairman of the Council of Ministers said the Council of Ministers is currently working on preparing this law and will be in the process somewhere half this year. In the meantime, we have not received any other information except that something has not been done after that in the Council of Ministers itself, so in preparation for my colleague, Bećirović and I, we are in preparation to get as good information as possible so that we can get to a good law, we have requested that the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina provide us with information on all these organisations and groups dealing with these activities. I thank the Commission who, the committee responsible, who, without any politicisation, has realized how important it is in this way to approach this problem and who supported this initiative. Some of my colleagues used to say through the media that this is about politicization. I can, here as a proposer say, I didn't take this to put up with some kind of initiative, I think we should really have some responsibility, both human and professional, and Parliamental, and where we see that we have a problem in society that we should find answers and offer some solutions. So if someone has a better approach and a better solution, I will accept one, one such approach with both hands. Because here you see, we just had a debate about this Holocaust Denial Act, genocide, etc., it's, it's a basic 45 principle in life or you're fascists or you're anti-fascists. So when you enter a phase in any kind of argument you make whether something like this should be set up or not, you enter a slippery zone where you can hardly, in the sense of principle, come out clean. So I think we should look at these things in terms of general commitment that we as a society and as a community have the strength, we have the courage and ultimately we have the responsibility to clearly set a limit below which we do not go, so this is our relationship to denial, let's say, genocide, denial of the Holocaust, etc. One way, or I would say one way, without any particular politicisation of this case, is that we have a clearer picture of who all the organisations and groups that, according to the information provided by the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing these things and are dealing with these issues. And in that sense, this is also related, of course, to each other across the topic relating to freedom of the media, when we started this story then we had, the current one and the attacks on journalists, so that's the basis on which every society is built. And if we don't have one on this side, I would say, a parliamentary, institutional responsibility that we offer here a solution in which we will make it impossible for anyone to deal with these issues, then we will each put out little fires that we have seen very quickly and very easily plan here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, this is one of the questions that will test our seriousness and our commitment on the European pathway. We are all saying that we are in principle for these European standards, the European perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but then in some fundamental issues, I am not sure how much of what it is to end we recognize what these topics are that we should discuss and on which issues we should have shown that courage to make this kind of a step up. One of my colleagues noticed earlier, so he says, when you take the agenda and you see that the most important issues that solve people's life are daily important for people's lives, we spend a minute or two, and that on some other topics around which, in fact, this policy is trying to get us back and back again, we spend some hour and two hours, then it says that we are still not aware of the time we live in, nor are we aware of the position in which this country is located and where this country should go further. So I'm asking you today, in this sense, to support this initiative, and then this will be the first step, then we'll have a clearer picture of how to come up with a quality legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12884	Thank you. We're finishing up a debate on this point. Dot 30, Ad. 30. A review of the parliamentary initiative of Nermine Kapetanović, submitted on 04.04.2016, which reads: "An initiative to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the adoption and adoption of a state strategy for the promotion of renewable energy", issue: 01-50-1-1031/16 The dom Kolegijum has appointed the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development as competent to consider this initiative. The Commission has delivered its opinion on the initiative on 20.04.2016. The Commission did not accept the initiative. 46 I'm opening a debate. MP Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12886	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Guided by the idea that energy policy was at the very heart of the idea of European integration not only from the Messiah's agreement but also by the creation of the Coal and Steel Community since 1952, and taking care of the fact that Europe has marked almost 55 years since the agreement from Rome, so-called. The Rome Agreement, and the 50th anniversary of the Euratom Agreement, which are the foundations for energy policies in Europe, and taking into account the fact that the Kyoto Protocol was signed in 2012, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina signed and ratified it and that among 160 countries that had undertaken to adopt the Kyoto Protocol policies, and also making sure that the Energy Strategy was adopted at EU level in 2007. So, the EU's two-part strategy on the European strategy for combating climate change and this for us, the more important European Energy Strategy, and also led by the fact that the European Commission, in the European Commission's 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress, has been specifically mentioned by Bosnia and Herzegovina that very little progress has been made on renewable energy, that entities have introduced encouraging, guaranteed tariffs for renewable energy sources, which are not uniform, but the European Commission is still warning us, therefore also in this Progress Report, and these days in the negotiations of the Council of Ministers and Entity Prime Ministers with the European Commission often mentions the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet drawn up a state plan for renewable energy that would create a road map for the implementation of a binding target on the participation of renewable energy with the European Commission's final energy consumption in 2020. I think it is necessary to create a regulatory arrangement that would encourage greater use of renewable energy in all sectors, a matter that this Parliament needs to discuss. I think that the constant reminders of the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's unpreparedness and the lack of energy strategy, and the fact that large sums of money fail every year because of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina did not make that strategy, and that the funds for such projects stand within the EU, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina only through the making of such state and the application of projects can attract funds for renewable energy, I think that it should be borne in mind that Parliament should discuss this, does not naturally dispute entity competences about the fact that entities that will make these laws, but the strategy should be established at the level of the state. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligation is to follow EU guidelines and I think that, having, therefore, given the practice so far and lack of knowledge, the fact is that we do not have enough knowledge of this important segment, from the point of view of rational energy use, the preservation of primary forms of energy and the reduction of the emissions of half-tanates caused by conventional energy sources, an increase in employment rates, employment rates, which are a priority for us and which, to which we are all calling and what we are all aiming for, and of course an increased degree of renewable energy use should be represented for Bosnia and Herzegovina's choice which has no alternative. The renewable energy strategy should be an integral part of the overall energy strategy, and in line with the European Strategy, and I think renewable energy sources, which is being called upon by all those who are experts, are getting closer to winning the race with conventional ones. Of course, it can be talked about wind power, solar energy, hydropotentials, biomass, but of course it will be all regulated by laws that will be passed at entity level, and it is the strategy that should be adopted at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is a shame for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to lose great opportunities in 47 applications to projects, according to the European Commission. And once, by making such a strategy, I think that it would not be a question of any entity jurisdiction, my intention is absolutely not to transfer any authority to a state level that is not already foreseen by the Constitution, but rather to simply try to get some funds for Bosnia and Herzegovina, if anything at least for employment, that is, for me, very important employment of new people and environmental protection. These are two things that are very important to me, and that was my motive for making this strategy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12887	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12888	I'm going to try to be brief, even though I know this problem a little bit by my professional vocality. I fully support you, Mrs. Kapetanović, and I know what is happening in the environment I know that the moment will come when everyone will point fingers and say – we must bring it. But let us return to our reality, and what everyone is calling for, jurisdiction. This reality and jurisdiction are now encouraging to adopt a strategy when it comes to renewable energy sources. Just a few examples. Water, river flows, whether Bosnia goes all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, or goes through one entity, or goes through two entities, or goes through two entities and three cantons, and so on, I don't count it. Every intervention on the Bosnia River has a two-shaped repercusion: it is watery, total pollution and use of that water. When I say using the recent past, remember Mostar and dropping excess water from the accumulating potential of three lakes before entering Mostar and the flood in Mostar. But don't lie down with the devil's circumstances I'm familiar with a few projects just in the area of renewable energy where wind power plants and solar power plants are concerned, solar power plants. And imagine in places where they should be placed is the entity line 30% there, 70% here, 70% here, 30% there, and then we have a huge problem with investors who give up very quickly. Your example is Veleza's space. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, I'm talking about Mount Velez, which is very important, is an example of space when it comes from Glamoc and beyond, spaces where they are so-called. rose winds or wind currents are the most intense in Bosnia and Herzegovina, precisely in these areas is division, entity division. And you can't come up with a solution to that problem to realize a very paid project. But the strategy itself does not take responsibility, the strategy itself opens the door to EU funds, that is what is most important. And your example is the neighbouring country of Croatia, where practically every house that is able to use one of the sources of renewable energy has an incentive, a material incentive to do so. All flat roofs are flooded with solar collectors, private houses and so on. But without a strategy, there are no funds, no means to encourage the use of renewable energy sources, and we have three in our space, that is: water, wind and light or sunlight. We have this problem, and we need to say that we have it, and I see no reason why the Council of Ministers should not approach the development from the aspect of enabling and opening up space for access to European funds. 48 Unless we do so others go very quickly and I fear that we will remain on what is coming to us, which is to be producers of dirty energy – coal, coal, coal, pollution, pollution, and that we get the most polluted instead of the cleanest environment within the EU. Just look at how planned the thermal power plant is at..., very poor quality of coal in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can speak well of this quality, of the amount of sulphur that contains these carbons. And what will... actually happen in the space we live in. [[The ambassador was warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12890	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12891	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be real quick. This, namely, no one slows down in this country the need to use renewable energy sources, i.e. for greater representation in total energy consumption from these sources. No Niko here, of course, is opposed to using as many of these sources as possible, but the strategy does not solve almost any of these problems that have been presented here as problems. We will not limit Bosnia to one canton, one entity, or only Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Sava to only Bosnia and Herzegovina by adopting a strategy. The strategy doesn't have much to do with it. If she Kapetanović been at the energy summit, the Second Energy Summit a few weeks ago in Neum, then she would have seen how difficult it was for us to get to those documents that we took over, for which we made a commitment to bring in some time. So you'd also see probably the intensity in which direction this arrangement is going between entities, and at all the position of entities and states in this, when it comes to the energy sector. I guess she saw it so she wouldn't even suggest a conclusion like this, or she wouldn't start an initiative like this. Of course, that this is, that the initiative is a legitimate initiative, this is about a strategy to promote renewable energy sources, not a strategy to use energy sources, which in some ways justifies the attempt of a colleague himself, means that it goes with such an initiative. I think that this is the reverse process from one that can lead to a strategy, I think that a strategy in this country, any one and this one, can come from the other side, means going towards the Council of Ministers, not from the Council of Ministers to the lower levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12892	Ambassador Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12893	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, the esteemed present. Of course, I won't be tied up for long, since this is, here's the most important thing that's been said. What I want to say, from my experience, is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no problem with the potential of renewable energy sources. We're by electricity production, here's that segment we look at energy, between 42% and 44%, and sometimes up to 48% of electricity is derived from renewable energy. After Austria and Norway, I think we're the first in Europe. However, the potential for renewable energy sources of our country is enormous and 49 of this idea, what the distinguished colleague gave, I would only supplement this, there would be no promotions, there would be promotions and the use of renewable energy, and it would be one complete thing. And with Mr. Novaković, I agree very well with what he said that we are very difficult to come and agree with these things, especially that this is our obligation in front of the Energy Community. And in that last European Commission report, it was our obligation to do it, and I think we're doing this too hard and slow. These are normal things to bring this kind of strategy. I know it's on the entity level, we all know it, but it's doubtless that this will sometimes have to be brought by Bosnia and Herzegovina, so this will have to be brought back sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12894	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 31st point of the agenda, Ad. 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, No: 01,02-05-2-913/16, of 21.03.2016. You have been given the opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 32nd point, Ad. Thirty-two. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Project Corridor Vc 2) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-1100/16, as of 11 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12898	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12899	We're going to the second round right now. For 22, v. 9, abstention 8. There's a general majority and there's an entity majority in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12900	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12901	I know what's in the second round. Let's go to point 17.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12902	Adopted in the first reading...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12903	Yeah, yeah, it was adopted in the first place, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12904	There's a conclusion. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12905	What's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12906	Arnaut has a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12907	Okay. We're voting right now on the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. So, for 24, against 4 and abstention 11. There is a general majority and there is an entity majority, the conclusion is adopted. Let's go to point 17. – Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in dual-use goods – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 31, against four, abstentions four. There is a general majority and there is an entity majority, so the bill was adopted in the first reading. Point 18. – Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 31, v. 5, abstention 3. There is a general majority and there is an entity majority, so the bill in the first reading was adopted. Point 19. – Proposal for a law on the ban on public denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity – Proposer: MPs from the SDP Club Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović and Mirsad Mešić, (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 20, against 11, abstention 7. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. We're going to the second round. For 21, against 11, abstention 6. There is a general majority, there is no entity majority in the second round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12908	There are 2/3 against the RS and it's not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12909	So please, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12910	Okay, sorry, come on. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12911	You understand what I'm talking about. So the law wasn't passed. Moving to point 20. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties – Proposer: Members of the Interresor Working Group for the Making of Amendments of the Election Law, MPs: Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 24, v. 5, abstention 9. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, so the law was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 21. – Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the Joint Commission Report at both homes. For 28, against four, abstentions six. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, the report's been adopted. We go to point 23, after point 22 has been removed, or delayed for consideration, 23. – Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period 01.01.2015 – 31.12.2015. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 25, against four, abstention nine. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, the report was adopted. Point 24. – Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the recommendations set out therein. For 25, v. 5, abstention 8. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, there's a recommendation report that's listed in it. 25th Point – Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both PSBiH homes to review the work of the Independent PSBiH Committee. We're voting on the adoption of the report with the conclusions contained in it. For 22, against 14, abstention 2. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, we adopted the conclusion report contained in it. 53 Point 26. – Information on the possibilities of testing (pilot project) of advanced technologies in the 2016 local elections in BiH – applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH. We're voting on receiving information. For 30, against four, abstention four. There's a general and entity majority, it's received information. 27th Point – Information related to International Labour Organisation Recommendation No 204 on the transition from informal to formal economy, adopted at the 104th session of the IOR – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. We're voting on receiving information. For 31, against four, abstentions two. The general majority and entity majority exist, so it's received information. Point 28. – Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both homes of the PSBiH to conduct procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education Development Agency and quality assurance. We vote on the choice: Dževad Zečević, Zoran Tomić...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12912	Rabbits.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12913	I apologize, Zečić, Zoran Tomić and Branko Krsmanović, for members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security. For 22, against 13, abstention 2. There is a general and entity majority, meaning a nomination proposal has been adopted. Point 29. – Consideration of Denis Bećirović and Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 17 March 2016, which reads: "The BiH Ministry of Security is in charge, that within 30 (30) days of the adoption of this initiative at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the information on the activities of organisations and groups that spread religious, national and any other hatred in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina is provided in the parliamentary procedure." We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. For 27, against 10, there are no abstentions. There is a general majority, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go now, will you?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12914	All right, all right. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12915	We're going to the second round of voting. 25 for, versus 10, abstention 2. _________(?) Repeat the vote. Do you want the vote to happen again? Please repeat the vote. For 26, against 11, there are no abstentions. There is a general majority, there is no entity majority for the second round of voting in Republika Srpska, meaning the initiative was not adopted. Point 30. – A review of the parliamentary initiative of Nermine Kapetanović, submitted on 04.04.2016, which reads: "An initiative to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the adoption and adoption of a state strategy for the promotion of renewable energy". We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. For 26, v. 10, abstention 1. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. Shall we go straight to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12917	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-11-0.u12918	We're going straight to the second round of voting. For 26, v. 10, abstention 1. There is a general majority, the entity majority for the second round of voting does not exist in Republika Srpska, so the initiative is not accepted. Point 31. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. We're voting on giving consent to ratification. For 33, v. 1, abstention 3. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, so we agreed to ratify the Agreement. And final point 32. – Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (Project Corridor Vc 2) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We're voting on giving consent to ratification. 55 For 33, v. 1, abstention 3. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, so we gave consent to ratification of the Treaty. This concludes the 28th session of the House of Representatives and we move to the 29th session. Session completed at 1435 hours.
