ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11162	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 25th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House and media representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. Deputy BiH Foreign Minister Josip Brkić has sent a notice that he is unable to participate in the 25th session of the House. The absence from the session was justified by MP Nermina Kapetanović, and representatives of Hazim Rančić and Đorđo Krčmar. According to the Service of the session, 38 MPs are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. We're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the agenda to the session, I would like to mention the following. The following points are removed from the earlier agenda, and in accordance with the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission: point 4. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: SNSD and SDS representatives, issue: 01,02-02-1-27/15, of 17.12.2015. (first reading) Point 5. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: representatives from SNSD and SDS clubs, issue: 01,02-02-1-28/15, of 17.12.2015. (first reading) Point 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Law No: 01-02-1-79/16, of 05.01.2016. (first reading) They were removed from the session agenda because the Council of Ministers did not deliver the requested opinion on the draft law. The following points are added to the agenda: point 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly - Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club, issue: 01-50-1-552/16, since 15.02.2016. 2 Point 11. Information from the Central Election Commission of BiH on testing opportunities (pilot-project) of advanced technologies in the 2016 Local Elections election process – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, number: 01-50-1-522/16, since 12.02.2016. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Nikola Lovrinović called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11163	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Gentlemen deputies, colleagues and colleagues, all present, all welcome. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as president of the HDZ Club and the chairman of the Joint Committee on European Integration, I would like to express my satisfaction that Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted its application for EU membership yesterday. Congratulations to everyone who's worked on this. I call for this to be a motive so that we can do our homework on this road as soon as possible and become full members of the family we belong to. We are a generation of politicians whose conduct of duty has happened, and I congratulate everyone once again on the belief that we share a common position, and I ask that this card be or, therefore, as an addition to the agenda in the light of the statement, means a statement on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress on European integration, but I do not insist. So I also accept that this is, therefore, the text to be found in the minutes of this session. I thank and congratulate you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11164	Thank you very much. Stasha Koshara, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11165	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and all present here at the House of Representatives. The SNSD Parliament Club proposes, in accordance with Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, to include the agenda item today: – Information from the Council of Ministers on how to decide on the system of coordination of the European integration process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to say that in the last few days, the public has had the opportunity to hear different kinds of information about how the Council of Ministers made a decision. I must also say that we are witnessing the fact that on the basis of the information we received from the media, which is that the decision was made on 26 April, we witnessed that here at the meeting, held on 3 February, we did not have at least the exact information about it by the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. I do not think that Parliament is a place where all MPs in both homes should be informed about how the Council of Ministers makes certain decisions, and I would say that this decision is also important for Bosnia and Herzegovina but also very important for the overall relations on our internal agenda. I don't think manipulations, lack of information are our allies to create some good relations in this country. The SNSD has repeatedly said that the European path has no obstacle, but respecting very clear views expressed through the institutions of Republika Srpska and representatives of Republika Srpska in the three institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and our elemental attitude of the SNSD will not stand down. But it would be very important because of the overall relations and future, because I suppose we will hold the end of the mandate in this composition, I suppose there will be people who will be at different levels of government in this country, but I think it would be good if the Council of Ministers informed the House of Representatives about how to make such a decision, that we know where the session was held, whether it was held, as the ministers from Republika Srpska voted. I think it is our fundamental right and that the MPs of the SNSD Club have the right to bear it and to ask the Council of Ministers to submit such information. I'm asking you to make that known to the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11166	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. As for Mr. Nikola Lovrinović's proposal, I realized that he thought it was like a proposal for the agenda, but eventually he said it was still a congratulations from home, so we're not going to do it, we all thank you and also join the congratulations. As for Mr Staša Košarac's proposal, to request that information from the BiH Council of Ministers on how to decide on a coordination mechanism be placed on the agenda today, I would now put this proposal to the polls so that they know what agenda they have. I therefore put the proposal to include Staša Košarac in the agenda – Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on how to make a decision on the establishment of a coordination mechanism. Of the total 38 present – for 15 against 18, abstentions 5. Federation of BiH 8 for, 13 against, 4 abstentions, RS 7 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find that Staša Košarac's proposal has not entered the agenda of today's session. I find that the 25th session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 24th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-38/15, of 30.12.2015. (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-26/15, of 17.12.2015. (first reading); 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly - Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club, issue: 01-50-1-552/16, since 15.02.2016; 6. Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the establishment of legal provisions in the area of cybersecurity, in accordance with the Convention on Cybercrime and the Agreement on 4 Stabilisation and Association – Proposer: Representative Saša Magazinović, No: 01-50-1-418/16, of 03.02.2016; 7. Consideration of the Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads: "I propose that you set up a point on the agenda of the following meetings under the title: Establishing a parliamentary group to promote the right to freedom of faith and conviction, in accordance with Article 18. General Declaration of Human Rights, issue 01-50-1-1574/15; 8. A review of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads: "I propose that the BiH Parliamentary House College put the following session on the agenda as follows: Information on freedom of speech and the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special emphasis on attacks on journalists", issue: 01-50-1-1575/15; 9. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers that, no later than 120 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the PSBiH House of Representatives, develop and adopt the National Programme for Integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union and deliver it to the House of Representatives", issue: 01-50-1-393/16; 10. Consideration of Monika Tomić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit, within 90 days of the adoption of this initiative in the PSBiH House of Representatives, an analysis of the reform of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to the reform of secondary education and the possibility of introducing compulsory secondary education," issue: 01-50-1-415/16; 11. Information from the Central Election Commission of BiH on testing opportunities (pilot-project) of advanced technologies in the 2016 Local Elections election process – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, number: 01-50-1-522/16, since 12.02.2016; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Note of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the adoption of the technical cooperation project for the period 2008-2012, issue: 01,02-05-2-311/16, of 26.01.2016; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, No: 01,02-05-2-367/16, of 29.01.2016; 14. Adherence to ratification of the Loan Treaty (Project ‘Regional waterway Blue water’) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2383/16, from 01.02.2016. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 24th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11168	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I would just pray on page 11, since you're at my observation about not getting answers set up listed 1, 2, 3, 4, and you didn't specify 3 which were also addressed in their own time, and I think maybe I didn't mention them when I was speaking, and maybe I am, now I'm not sure, but to point out, therefore these are questions about the actions against witnesses who give false statements, these are issues of war crimes in Bikosa and Miletić, and these are questions of investigation of the killings of April returnees and police officers. So, to state these same questions in the record as you listed these three, or four, as much as you stated. Nothing more, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11169	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I am concluding the debate under point 1. These remarks will, of course, be borne in mind when we vote on the adoption of the minutes from the 24th session of the House of Representatives. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of this House of Questions and Initiatives were asked by representatives: Senad Šepić asked the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Agency for Labour and Employment and directed the initiative to the Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; Denis Bećirović asked 7 questions to the President of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers and to the Council of Ministers of BiH and addressed the initiative to the College of the House; Nikola Lovrinović asked the Joint College of both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; Mag Arnaut referred two initiatives to the College of Home, asked the question of the BiH Foreign Ministers, asked the additional question of the Minister of Civil Affairs and asked 6 questions of the Ombudsman institution for human rights of BiH; Monika Tomić referred the initiative to the College of Home; Mensura Beganović asked the question of the Council of Foreign Affairs and the Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of BiH. The following answers were provided to today's session: on the issue of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Miroslav, which was raised in oral form by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, which was asked in oral form, at the 17th session of the BiH Council of Ministers delivered a reply to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees; on the issue of Safer Demirović, the answer was submitted by the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH; on the issue of Milovanović Dušanka, which was placed in writing by the document of the BiH Ministry of Economy, the document of the Croatian Ministry of Economy and Neretva County of the Federation of BiH; on the same question was submitted by the Ministry of Economy in the form of the 22nd copy of the EU, the Hanka was submitted to the Vajzović of the EU, the answer to the document of the European Union, the 23th edition of the reply to the document was submitted by Mr. Who wants to comment on the answers received? jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11171	I thank the chairman. A warm greeting to all present at today's session of the House. I asked the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and about the plan and activities for the refurbishment and reconstruction of the Union railway, and I would therefore comment briefly on the response. In the introduction, the Ministry reminded that it was a very important European direction E751 Volenja – Dobrljin – Bihać – Ripač – Strmica, reminding that during the pre-war period the entire Union railway was electrified, modernly equipped, and that more than 70 trains were transported daily by the Unski railway, carrying more than 4 million tonnes of cargo and more than 1.5 million passengers. Today, unfortunately, there are no trains passing through the UN railways, nor are there goods traffic. The ministry also finds that the current state of infrastructure is very bad, and I would further expand and add this finding – and more than bad, and everyone knows that the situation is nothing, because there is no traffic on the Union railway. The ministry also hints and builds on this previous finding where they say the main reason for this poor situation in the Union has been the fact that the refurbishment of the UN railway infrastructure has been neglected for years. And that is true, I agree with that, completely neglected by this railway route which has a very big impact on the development of the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, there have been no reconstruction and reconstruction projects in this railway direction, but I would also like to remind you that more than 200m euros have been invested in electricity and rail rement in Bosnia and Herzegovina so far. The Union railway was not in these means, and for that, among other things, I am actuating the unski railway in this way, asking questions. The precondition for establishing and limiting rail traffic at the UN-San canton remains for the establishment of inter-entity traffic is the full electrification of the Union railway and the training of security, signalling and telecommunications devices on it. Of course, it's a priority. I agree, and I am partly pleased that the investment plan for the period from 10 years 2015 to 2025 includes the electrification of the Union railway, but I am not satisfied with the level of representation of the Union railway in the investment plan, and later I will explain why. The ministry also states – although there are the necessary conditions so far, there have still been no concrete results in establishing regular rail traffic for reasons that in Croatia, even in the Croatian Railways, there is no interest in establishing regular international traffic on that track. I would very much like to know on the basis of which fact 7 the Ministry has concluded that Croatia has no interest in the Union railway. I don't know if you know that in September 2014 on the Round Table... and explicitly expressed the position and interest of the Croatian Railways on the Hungarian railway, where representatives and ports of Zadar and Sibenik and Zadar County, as well as representatives of the Croatian Railways stressed the importance of the Union railway and invited the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to join in and to jointly seek out how to finance the reconstruction of the Union railway. In the Investment Plan, according to the response, for the period 2015 to 2020, with a projection of up to 2025, made by the Bosnian-Herzegovina railway public corporation along with the railway companies for the UN railway company, a reconstruction of power plants with a budget of 10m euros, or 20m KM was planned. I am partly pleased that... finally moving towards the reconstruction of the power plants and the electrification of the Union railway, but we must say that in 2009 and 2012 there were also activities and should have completed the electrification of the Union railway, and in this Investment Plan continue with the remonst and modernisation of the Union railway. The Investment Plan envisions only one share of the UN railway for the remont, which is from Bosnia and Herzegovina's Novi or Novi Grad to Blatna and a 10m-euro amount. It's still not scheduled for a remont, and I hear it. And I conclude, however, that the Federation Railways have completely ignored the Union railway because, as we can see, they didn't include it in the Roadmap, which is a priority for the Unika railway. In the investment plan the example works for...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11172	Just to warn, Article 171(4), please, this will apply to both you and everyone else, the House Chairman gives an opportunity to the representative, who asks the asked question in writing, to declare whether he is satisfied with the answer. If the representative is not satisfied with the answer, he may ask an additional parliamentary question in writing. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11173	Thank you. On the basis of all of the above, I believe that there are elements to launch an initiative to complement the Investment Plan, so that the Unska railway in the same area is adequately represented and that funds for reconstruction are planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11174	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11175	Thank you. Unfortunately, I can't comment on anything because I didn't get the answers, but I'm taking the opportunity to remind myself, so I'm waiting for three answers from the Foreign Ministry, one three months already. From the Ministry of Foreign Trade also, and indeed a little bit more bored each time at the session to remind what the Rules of Procedure prescribed. I would once again ask the College to enter the record and send an emergency to all the ministries I'm waiting for to respond to. These are just some examples, but in fact this is a constant phenomenon that none of the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, is delivered within the deadline for parliamentary issues. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11176	Šemsudin Mehmedović, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11177	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I last received an answer to one of the questions from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, unfortunately two more questions have never been answered. Although with this answer I am not satisfied because actually the answer is being obstructed in full capacity, because I got an undefined answer. And I'm going to use my right to ask the question again when an opportunity is given, but I want to draw attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, the duty of those to whom we ask the question is to deliver an answer. I have been waiting for the fourth session from the Ministry of Security to answer the question I asked about the status of Assistant Minister Vjekoslav Vuković. I would like to Podsjetić you that the secretary of the ministry has been suspended for reporting and deprived of liberty, and the assistant minister of security has also been deprived of his freedom and has been illegally sentenced to one year in prison, but it seems to me, but the process continues today and has not been suspended at all. Is this law not applicable to all the same or is the gentleman under the protection of certain political options. If so, let the minister tell us and finally deliver an answer to this question, because it is obvious that the person who has an inadmissible verdict should not even have access to classified information, let alone do his job uninterrupted. Therefore, I expect the Minister of Security to answer this question and I hope that I will finally get it at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11178	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11179	...and welcome everyone present. I received an oral question from the respected finance and vault minister of BiH about the situation with the execution of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg's ruling on the payment of old foreign savings to the Ljubljana Bank's savings. And also after that oral response, I asked for the written reply that I received, and this is the way I thank the Prime Minister. ... namely, the answer contains a review of the activities undertaken to remove barriers to the start of the accounting and payment of old foreign savings, which may be reduced to the formation of an expert group. Therefore, the activities taken by the Council of Ministers are the establishment of an expert group and an initiative addressed to the Slovenian side to start negotiations to seek a solution to this problem. The media found out that Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, informed the Council of Europe that it had difficulty verifying the data of owners of the old foreign exchange savings of the Ljubljana Bank in Sarajevo, as documentation of the old foreign currency savings of the Ljubljanska Banka in Sarajevo is unreachable. It is obvious that these two sides disagree on whether all the conditions relating to the delivery of complete documentation to the Republic of Slovenia by Bosnia and Herzegovina are met. Since in Bosnia and Herzegovina, around 130,000 savings have been waiting 24 years for their money to be paid back, i.e. old foreign savings, i, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have not found any obstacles to, in accordance with Article 171, I cannot propose a conclusion in accordance with this response, so that I will refer the conclusion to this House, and I hope that my colleagues will support, in which they are asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to step up efforts to reach an agreement with 9 Republic of Slovenia on the payment of old foreign currency savings -- the subsidiary of Sarajevo, and that the Council of Ministers is obliged to inform this House every two months on the progress made on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11180	Fehim Škaljić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11181	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers, good afternoon. The Institute of Parliament Affairs is an important democratic institute and we must constantly develop it. I asked a question about Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets abroad on August 28th, and I said... to the complexity of the issue I do not expect an answer before the December session. Here, now the other half of the sixth month as I asked the question, I'm absolutely ignored about what's going on and what's going on. The answer is – we have no information, we can't, we can't, we work, etc., but the complete lack of any answer is not good for the reason of this institute. I knew that the question was complex and that it took time to answer, but still six months is a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11182	Thank you. Miroslav Milovanović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11183	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, ladies and gentlemen. So my question was to the Council of Ministers, or Minister of Finance in the Council of Ministers, and it was said – when special taxes were introduced on imports of beer to Bosnia and Herzegovina and how much has been charged by the Directorate for Direct Taxation since then. You all got that information. In short, I will say that this is, that the amount of these funds is not full of 300 million KM, so on imports of beer from 2006. I am quite satisfied with this data, but I am dissatisfied with the fact that the Council of Ministers, therefore in an identical or similar way, does not protect other manufacturers and processors? Of course, it wasn't just your obligation, all of the Council of Ministers' meetings so far were less combative and none of them faced this problem to protect themselves, therefore, domestic production, agricultural production. And bear in mind the fact that farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska are one of the few populations who are in the same suffering and who have the same attitudes and agree on all issues. And that is exactly what they have been looking for for for years, so together farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina together are seeking to introduce special fees on imports of food products, and they have made it very clear that imports are burdened by the different incentives in the EU that are incomparably greater than incentives in Bosnia and Herzegovina with incentives both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska, so in contrast with these higher incentives compared to incentives in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to their estimates, they went to that level if they had made annual estimates, so over 400 million KM would have been charged in Budget Bosnia and Herzegovina if, therefore, they were to burden imports completely legitimately as opposed to incentives between the EU and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11184	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11185	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome all present. My question was, in fact, addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and it concerned the situation at border crossings and terminals, more specifically for the ratio of input funds based on harvesting based on border crossings and terminals and what is invested. The reason I asked such a question is to object to the user, and otherwise to the state of the border crossings, and I received the answer within the expected time limit, as planned. Of course, with the answer contained, the situation, not that it is difficult to be satisfied, but on the basis of two important facts it could almost be characterized as anti-state action. Since border crossings and this area belonging to terminals are an extremely important security issue, on the one hand, and that general impression is important to us on the European path, the general impression that everyone has when they approach the border crossings becomes clear after this data that it is a catastrophic situation. There were also various complaints from users, therefore from the funds raised for 6 years 83 and some million were invested, and 2 million were turned out to be, or in 2015, 248,000 out of 6 million, which turns out to be not 2% to invest in maintenance. Of course, for 11-12 years we've had the Commission for Integrated Border Management, we have, here's the Directorate for indirect taxation to maintain it, to arrange it, there's nothing out of it. And then when you see these numbers, it's clear why there's nothing. I think this important question should certainly be found on the agenda of these sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11186	Lazar Prodanović, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11187	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all present. I received an answer from the BiH Medicines Agency that referred to my question at the previous session, which actually refers to the Regulation on adoption, and then to the publication in the "Official Messenger", the Regulation on the maximum allowable wholesale price of medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am pleased with this answer and I thank the Agency, but I hope that I will be able to have the same answer as the Council of Ministers at the next session. So, I expect that the Council of Ministers, in line with these remarks that would be corrected, will arrive from the competent ministry in the Council of Ministers and will be in a position to adopt this Regulation, to publish it in the "Official Messenger of BiH", in order to publish on its website this Regulation, therefore, on the maximum wholesale price of medicines, their way of forming and forming and reporting on this and so that citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina and health funds would be in a position to achieve significant savings, which would be of paramount importance since we know in what... health institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This would, therefore, be 11 at more than 90 million KM level and make available the right to treat all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina at least at the level of countries in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11188	Senad Šepić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11189	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I have asked several parliamentary questions, and today I just wanted to comment on the question of the Information on all the appointments that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Council of Ministers carried out under their responsibilities in 2015. Today, I will only be able to comment on this, as it is called, the answer. It is evident that in this response, therefore, we can see that the Council of Ministers, which is a state government, predominantly appointed people and staff from Sarajevo this year, then Mostar and a slightly different balance is visible from Banja Luka and the eastern part of Republika Srpska. I'm not going to talk about some other qualifications today, as it's called, people, people and all of what we can see in this memo, but here's what I'm going to draw everyone's attention to a few... So, first of all, we all say what we want, as we call it, a country that is different, better, fairer, more written, a country that is a country of equal odds, a country for all, often, so we don't just have to listen to what people are saying, but we need to watch what moves they're making. So there's the essence of who we really are. If you do an analysis now, then you'll see that it doesn't match what we're sworn to and what we're talking about. So here I am suggesting to the Council of Ministers to run an analysis of these appointments, so to add in this sense the answer to this question, the same should be done by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, therefore, and that through these subsequent appointments it really shows that it respects the country in which it operates and in which it is the Council of Ministers. So I repeat, I'm not going to talk about expertise today, I'm not going to talk about qualifications... people because there are great people here, but I think that you as a Council of Ministers and as a state institution have to show that we're giving everybody a chance, we're giving everyone a chance, that we're ready here to show that our integration of the country through the moves we're making in the most important places. Because I think that's how a righteous country is built, and that's how the government should actually win and trust all of us. To show through his moves that he's making a country of equal odds and that he's making a country that's gonna be for us all. Here's another example, in Mostar recently, the government has called a cantonal contest for the reception of 100 trainees and among the 100 trainees there has been no person named by the University of Mostar with the best student of the generation, five awards, you see five awards, five awards. So the university is all behind it and it can't be found among 100 interns. I think it's a system that's, therefore, harmful to this country, I think it's a thing that we have to change. I know there's a limit to political parties, so I have them, and I'm aware of that, but I'm also calling on these people sitting here, you're a government, you're making decisions, and you need in this sense to answer for those moves, I call on you to establish principles, and to correct this because these appointments and the overall that it's called, the overall schedule of people and the schedule of those who behave the most significant functions, so it has to be professional, professional, etc., but it also has to paint the country that we represent. That's how I feel about Europe, and besides that, it is the Europe we're all talking about. If we really want this Europe, then we have to change, essentially. 12 So, just for a little while to comment on this second question. I delivered perhaps two months ago an initiative related to the Unika railway and related to this activity to be taken with Croatia. I support everything that my colleague Emrić said about the essence of this information he provided. So, we all know that there is a great interest by the Republic of Croatia, that there is an interest from the Railways of the Republic of Croatia to make this thing happen, now it is only up to us to show the interest on our part. I expect the Council of Ministers to respond to this initiative in a way that says exactly what moves it has made to get this story started from a dead end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11190	Mirsad Isaković, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11191	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. My comment will be very brief. So in January I asked the question – when can we expect the Internet Trade Act or distance shopping? I got the truth answer that has nothing to do with the question. So this is how I discussed it in the last session, I hope I get an answer, the right answer to the question. The question was asked by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, however, I see that the Ministry of Communications and Transport has responded. What's here is very... that it's European law and that law awaits us. It could have been answered, therefore, very simply – that in the next period, we would have no jurisdiction, or anything, in this sense. But since it was really responsible for nothing, the answer was entirely on the Internet line's lease. So, I think we should, it's high time to answer one of those questions. And here I am, taking the opportunity for the services to renew that question and get an answer to it. How seriously the most drastic example is, for example, sales from Bashcharshia, therefore, products. How people will send invoices. So we have to define some things that are very simple, but we make them complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11192	Nikola Lovrinović, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11193	Thank you. So, as one of the predecessors, I don't have any comments because I didn't get the answers, but I can't miss this session, either, to say that I seem to be a recordr on outstanding questions, as far as I know this moment is 7 or 8. gospodin Arnaut, it seems to me Mr. Mehmedović have said they haven't won, so in my case it's 7. Some are waiting for more than half a year to go to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and, therefore, I feel discriminated over it, and I sincerely hope that it is not because I am a member of the Croatian people, I hope that I will get those answers anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11194	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. 13 We move to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 24th session of the House, held on 03.02.2016. On 15.02.2016, the Constitutional Commission submitted a report on the Bill's Proposal. Representative Nikola Lovrinović is on 15.02.2015.(?) submitted in the procedure of the amendment proposal to defend the plenary phase in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11196	Thank you. So, colleagues and colleagues, yesterday as a member of the Constitutional Law Committee, I was on the occasion that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I put in two amendments, so I'll just say one thing about it. So one of the amendments referred to the request of a representative of the Red Cross who came to me for an e-mail address as an agent, and it is that, therefore, they are in some way afraid, so to speak, that the provisions of this Law will apply to them, and they warn that they have their own special law. And that amendment was me yesterday, in a way he actually fell, and it was an agreement with the Ministry of Justice that until today's session he would tell me whether what I suggested in the amendment was controversial, why it was controversial, and whether it was confusing in the provisions of this Law? Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer until this session this morning, because I expected it, so I wasn't able to continue this story on the amendment of that kind, because yesterday, colleagues from the Constitutional Commission, one of them who might be more experienced than me, said that maybe this amendment of mine would bring some confusion into this law, so here's what happened, but I'm sorry now that I missed that opportunity, but the gentlemen of the Red Cross are at my disposal that if they think they still need to go with the initiative to change this law when it comes to me, I'm happy to do it because, well, it wasn't the way we agreed on the Constitutional Commission yesterday. The second amendment is you, I hope, got here on the benches when you came to the session and it refers to, therefore, amendments and additions, Article 2 of Article 5(2). I also did not pass this amendment on the Constitutional Commission yesterday, but I am investing it again today, although something little in the changed variant than yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, because yesterday the Ministry gave an explanation that they wanted to extend the base of terms and terms relating to possible discrimination, the spread of hatred or inequality, the submission of applications for the registration of associations or funds. I said then that, that every listing of such a species, in my opinion, always leaves the possibility of someone being left out, so let's say for me, as they said in the amendments and additions, that is to say, it means equality, hatred, impatience can only be found by them in terms such as racial, national, religious, sexual, physical, psychic, etc. I think that they left out concepts such as, that it can also happen in terms such as regionality, economic situation, financial situation, status, social character, education. So a lot of concepts are also left out in which all of this can happen, and hate and, I know, inequality, etc. 14 So I think that the formulation that I have proposed is enough, however, to replace all that they wanted to say in some public debate, and besides, the concept of discrimination is processed in a special law, we have, we are signatories of the convention, so our Constitution requires it. Thus, one who eventually finds himself in such a situation, one who wants to register an association that is not granted it can also find a foothold in those laws. So I think what I suggested in my amendment is enough for what the promoters thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11197	Thank you. Šefik Džaferović, deputy. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11198	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. It is good when, in my opinion, when a representative enters this detail into the problem of a law and when we are actually offered alternatives and as regards some definitions that are standardised, which are commonly applied in practice and I cannot do so without assessing it as a correct contribution to improving the text of the Law that we are discussing. We have discussed this issue as well as the previous issue, concerning an amendment which you, as far as I understand it, have held yesterday's debate at a session of the Constitutional Commission. And after that debate there are arguments and what Mr Lovrinović is talking about, there are arguments about what the Council of Ministers is talking about and what is written about in the very text of a provision whose amendment is proposed. I think a broader definition offered by the Council of Ministers has been put in place. So that's my opinion, because the Council of Ministers listed some forms of hatred, impatience, not everything, because it can't even count everything, and it said – and other forms. So in all that word, the others, on two occasions, cover everything that could possibly be the subject of this law and of this provision that we are talking about. If one enters a definition without this word – others, it is something that is set in relation to what the Council of Ministers has proposed. That's why I suggest we adopt this today as it came from the Council of Ministers, and yes, here's the Council of Ministers, given this debate, first of all the Ministry of Justice, consider and consider what you were talking about, Mr. Lovrinović, so if it can be a better definition, but not to adopt it on a shortcut, that we don't just adopt it unexploredly. It's a very sensitive matter where we can leave something out and it costs us later. I'm not up for it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11199	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11200	I must say, it is obvious that the current Council of Ministers of BiH is not doing its part of the job. At least it does not work that part of which it has established or has established one of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. I remind you, for this amendment, which was delivered by a respected colleague, Lovrinović, who, for me and 15 for the SDP Club, is not controversial, we will vote for him, but if the Council of Ministers had done what Parliament had committed to the Council of Ministers for such an amendment, there would be no need. What's this about? In February of last year, we adopted an official parliamentary initiative which obliged the Council of Ministers to submit to parliamentary benches the text of the Law prohibiting the challenge of national, religious, racial or any other kind of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 2015. Today, here begins the second half of February, we still don't have that law on benches. Obviously, therefore, the Council of Ministers does not work and respects the conclusions of this Parliament and this is a key problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11201	Thank you very much. Damir Arnaut, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11202	Thank you. I am intrigued by what Mr. Lovrinović said, because yesterday I also participated in the debate... To the Constitutional Commission on this proposed first amendment, which, if I understand you correctly, you do not defend before the House today, concerning the Red Cross. I also received, like all members of the Parliamentary Assembly, because I saw, and then I checked and we all received a letter from the Red Cross on the official e-mail from the Parliamentary Assembly asking for a solution to this issue in the way that Mr Lovrinović proposed. And as far as I understood the debate on the Constitutional Legal Commission yesterday was the plan for the representatives of the Justice Department, did they, as a competent, or as a proposing, give someone their opinion on it. But I don't know, here, Mr. Lovrinović, I'm sorry to ask you because for the first time I've heard of this, so you haven't received any opinion from them at all. It is disappointing to me, too, because what the letter of the Red Cross is, that is, how the Red Cross wrote in his letter, seems quite well explained and reasonable. But I was also on the Constitutional Legal Commission yesterday, and I felt it would be good to hear what the Ministry of Justice, as an official promoter, thinks about it. And I'm sorry that we don't have that, and I'm sorry that, therefore, because of the lack of that opinion today, here's the man being forced, so that, or it's been impossible for him to defend his amendment again, since the conclusion on the Constitutional Commission was about yesterday -- let's hear what the Justice Ministry says, and then we'll continue to show ourselves about this issue. So I remain with the fact that the letter of the Red Cross is well explained, seems reasonable to their request and, in particular, whether, taking into account and respecting the specific role of the Red Cross. As for this second amendment, I join what my colleague Džaferović said, I said it yesterday, and we cannot support something that reduces the definition, and the definition proposed by the ministry is quite broad, especially in terms of the area of protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11203	Thank you very much, Damira. Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11204	Well, very briefly, since we are in the second reading, we have a proposed amendment, I will only comment on my fellow Lovrinović's amendment. I think he proposed a good solution and I welcome that the amendment restricting the activities of organisations,... organisations and foundations in terms of prohibited activities, unlike amendments, which says that the objectives and activities, which are part of the Statute, organisations cannot be directed towards the collapse of the constitutional order, etc., my colleague Lovrinović, has added one key word to me, which is that to the objectives and programme, which is part of the Statute, but he has added word and action, which is promoted by this member. So not only must you not in your programming and statutes have these things prescribed but you must not act in this way. I think it's a step in relation to the proposed solution and I'd be happy to support it. And this part where, not walking into a trap to list any possible imbalances or how here in the original text is a violation of human rights, hatred, impatience based on, so now it's listed here, he said in the amendment – commitment on any basis, which I think extends and, in some way, gives us the opportunity not to jump any of the possible constraints without any intention. So I think that this amendment is well formulated and I am personally, and the SDP Club, as counterpart Bećirović said, will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11205	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The bill was submitted in procedure 17.12.2015. On 23.12.2015, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the compatibility of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been found not to be in full compliance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the applicant to correct the shortcomings observed in the Bill proposal. The BiH Council of Ministers proposed the amendment to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH on 28 January 2016. The BiH Joint Commission for Defence and Security delivered its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal on 15.02.2016. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11207	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members. 17 I really need to say something about this Law that was often a stumbling block to us, so to those people whom he referred to. The truth that it was passed in 2005 as well as the Law on Defence, but we also never got the strength to fix it, not to be any more trouble as it happened. What exactly is this about? I understand the ministry's need to resolve some issues through these changes, and it really stands, such as the closer regulation of human resources management, the specificity of a military service that is indeed such, non-discrimination and transparency. And it's all clear and it deserves that kind of treatment, but there's that part that's slow and it's still gonna be a problem for us. So it's about Head V, it's pension-involved military security. They're members of 44th and 45th. As you know the jurisdiction of pension- invalidity protection belongs to the entities as a whole. And they handled it properly. So that should have been respected in the adoption of this law. Republika Srpska passed the Law on the exercise of the right to the retirement of professional military personnel and was published in "The Official Messenger", number 63/14. What does that mean now that the Council of Ministers again,... The Department of Defense regulates things that are not in his jurisdiction. The legislator again deals with what's called pension-involvement protection, the insurance company. Well, I think that... I mean, the 2, 3 amendments that were supposed to work on this bill to get him a pass, respecting what was supposed to be solved and not. Well, first of all, I think it would be Article 7. Proposal relating to Article 45 The law, in addition to the position (2), should also be deleted (3), given that... the insurance standing with an increased duration is either prescribed by the Law or determined by a special regulatory procedure. So that's what we need to see, this is what we have left open. The second thing is that in Article 8. The proposal for a law relating to Article 46 should lay down conditions for the exercise of age pension rights for officers, for officers 55 years of life and 35 years of retirement, and for officers 60 years of life and 35 years of retirement. So we have to make sure that the border is increasing, but we know how we get to, how many people are making a pension and how much our fund is in total. And finally, in Article 14. The proposal relating to Article 101 should be prescribed that the maximum length of service for officers is 30 years, but the longest until the completion of the 60th year of life, and for officers 30 years, but the longest to the 55th year of life. Also all of this, Article 15 needs to be brought into line with these previous members and it is necessary in the end to see how many people get the right to, if these changes occur, what that means as a financial part of the law that is mandatory. So, we're going to give consent to this law in the first phase, but I don't think we'd be making a problem again, that we should agree on what's not the Ministry of Defense's jurisdiction and not deal with pension-involved insurance, that those whose job it is, and that part of the law we get out of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11208	Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11209	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. I was on the Commission yesterday against giving consent to the principles of this Law, but here is the Commission for Defence and Security who gave consent and here we have a debate today. That's why I want to point out a few things that should be slightly different defined in the second reading. In Article 2, we seem to be making Law 18 more precise and clear, but we do not allow flexibility regarding the appointment of commanders at the head of the regiment. In fact, so far the rank of the colonel, or OF4 as it is led, could be found at the head of the regiment's command, but by this law, this possibility is erased and left to OF5, it's the brigade, I think, that's how it's defined. I think that this is a reduction in the flexibility of the Law, i.e. leaving fewer opportunities for those who are potentially leading human policy in the area. The second question relates in Article 16 to Article 116 of the Basic Act, where at the end of the text, behind the wording – the calling of a magistrate or, meaning the old Law, which, by the old calling, adds words – a high education II cycle of the Bologna system of study in accordance with the needs of defence according to the law of the defence minister, and the rest of the text is deleted. And also in point g) at the end of the text behind the word – the operational-strategic level of completion or, words are added – the higher education of the III cycle of the Bologna study system in line with the needs of the defence, according to the law of the defence minister, and the rest of the text is deleted. This is actually necessary to avoid any doubt as to whether only the Bologna system is now being introduced, and the old schooling system is all waste, which would not be correct and fair to those who have completed their education system in the old system. And I also want to point out a part of the text in the argument that, in fact, is explained, but there is no basic text of the Law, where it stands – the amendments to the Law of Faces to Armed Forces will be postponed over the next five years. Is this completely delayed, which would certainly compromise the defence system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is not and that this may be the wrong approach in the explanation, but is said to be delayed unless the full, or extended contract is executed, already with existing military personnel in the Armed Forces of BiH. Therefore, I ask that this text be corrected in an explanation until the next reading, i.e. until the next text of the bill. And of course I will use the right to put in a response number of amendments to possibly correct this text of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11210	Thank you. Safer Demirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11211	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Given that I had one question about this childcare process, and that the Law treats one institution of our own, which may have shown quite the best results in the past, if not best certainly among the better results in all fields, especially in international activities, where we did not, where we mainly had positive indicators of the participation of our Armed Forces in international missions. And I would therefore be delighted to see this area and this Law that treats the Armed Forces properly done. I don't have any major objections to this law, but I'd like to point out three things that maybe, here's what I'd like to see as a little bit of a proposal. It is related to Article 5, i.e. the former Article 13, where it is mentioned about the VII degree of professional training, it is now added that this corresponds to the first cycle of the Bologna. If it stays like this, this is also six semesters and eight semesters, that's 180 or 240 points. Maybe if we were to rank it in the seventh degree, that would go to eight nine hundred and forty-sevenths or if we left this system then it would be one thing and the other. Here's to having it in the phase of, uh, thinking. Next thing you know, it's about a member of 58, it's about a vacation. Maybe make a mix between the old and this new proposal. I think that for this number of employees at the Ministry of Defence, in the Armed Forces, it is actually necessary to make one plan of vacations, because it is very difficult... that without this plan it could not go, to allow, of course, two parts of who wants to take advantage of the annual vacation, with one part of them having the right member of the Armed Forces to use at their request whenever they want, and this one, I think, is a practice in most companies where there are a lot of workers and where the size of jobs is very large, and since again, members of the Armed Forces through some other privileges have very many days off, perhaps much more than in some other areas. And regarding only the explanation of Article 14, the reasoning actually for Article 14, something Mrs. Majkić said about this year's retirement internship. I agree with this first part that it needs to be increased. This second part with increasing that they will be able to calm down for certain years, doesn't have to be exactly that, an increase of... of five years that he will settle for 40 years, I think it's necessary to define exactly what years and age they are when a single member of the Armed Forces should go and meet the conditions for retirement. So much for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11212	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes – Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club Representative Denis Bećirović resigned as a member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 16 September 2015. The House of Representatives' College on two occasions asked the SDP Club of BiH to submit a proposal for a new member of the Joint Commission. In 15.02.2016, the SDP representative club submitted a proposal proposing representative Saša Magazinović as a new member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. The motion for a decision has been made. I'm opening a debate. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11214	As it is, a man would say it's a routine rock or a change. But that's not the point. In fact, a few months ago, I was here at the House of Representatives meeting, so I am speaking on my personal behalf, very clearly saying that I am resigning from the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights and listed clear reasons which, unfortunately, are not stated in the argument. And what are the reasons? As the elected representatives of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe we are obliged to protect and defend the rights of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and human rights in this 20-nation country. So I resigned as a personal expression of the protest of denial, the Constitution of BiH and the Dayton Peace Agreement, guaranteed the rights of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who speak and write in Bosnian. This right is flagrantly violated in the bh entity of RS. And I want to repeat this again today, as I said three months ago, it is a bold denial of Bosnian language in the territory of the bh entity RS, it is a plan-based negativity and denial of Bosnian language, and as we know it was preceded by the eradication of the name prefix of Bosnian from certain city names in the RS entity. And I must say that the disastrous message that is sent to all Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the message is – can't be Bosnian, can't be prefixed by Bosnian, but can be the name of the school "Serbia" both in the Palace and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What kind of message that is, and what kind of policy that is, it's hard to figure out. I don't know what my colleague Džaferović is talking about right now while I'm talking about this, but I want to express my position on this very clearly. Accordingly, and for these reasons why I do not want to, as an expression of my personal protest, to be in the Commission for Human Rights, I want to say very clearly as the elected representative of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that this is a violation of the BiH Constitution. Accordingly, and in accordance with Article 92. I would like the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, position (2), to request that this statement be entered in the minutes for the next House of Representatives session, so with reasons why I do not want to be in the Commission and with a clear explanation that it is a violation of the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11215	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Please, I'm closing the hearing, no one's registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11216	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11217	Well, you should check in on time. It's not mine that I'm here, the debate is concluded on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11218	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11219	How do you think I can't close the hearing if I don't see more people reported?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11220	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11221	It wasn't. Well, look, we're all here to take a look. But here, here, so we don't turn out, if we were to deny it, here's the debate and the correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11222	21 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11223	You have, let's... let's just... let's... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's just... let's We're still going to point six, Ad. Six. Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina on legal provisions in the area of cybersecurity, in accordance with the Convention on Cybercrime and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement – Proposer: Representative Saša Magazinovićć The House's College has appointed a Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 15.02.2016. The committee submitted its opinion on 15.02.2016 and supported the initiative and forwarded it to further proceedings. Representative Saša Magazinović has proposed two conclusions and they say: - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives warns all competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that the problem of Internet abuse and the lack of proper legal regulations is one of the key security problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and calls for their urgent resolution by strengthening the capacity of security agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers, within 60 days, to analyse the non-compliance of legal regulations in the area of cybersecurity in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in accordance with this, to the parliamentary procedure, to pass on amendments to existing rules, and possibly new legal solutions. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11225	I thank the chairman. Here, I will see to it that I have saved time for everyone since we talked about this issue at the last session of the House of Representatives and also at the Defence and Security Commission. I'm just going to say for a little while how this agenda even happened. I have asked a parliamentary question concerning the activities of the ministry and security agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina on crimes committed via the Internet, with a special reference to hate speech based on ethnic, religious and other grounds, calls for violence, murder, support for terrorism and others. I got an answer to this question that, from the Ministry of Security, which was done, of course, with SIPA employees, and what I said last time, I want to repeat that this is a really quality and exhaustive answer. I wish the answers to all MPs' questions were as substantial as this. The second thing is the defeat of what is the content of the answer itself, where it says that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the signatories of the 2001 Cyber Crime Convention, that it was ratified in 2006 and that in these 10 years, not much has been done by what our obligations are. It also says that the response team for computer incidents that should have been formed unfortunately is not, that we have problems with resources, with capacity, with staff. It is also a number of what our obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement are under when, when we talk about this area and us as 22 parliamentarians, through the answer to the parliamentary question, a series of warning messages have been sent. One of them is that any further delay in the adoption of new laws and harmonisation of existing laws with European legislation further complicates the situation, delays the application of EU recommendations, supports the country's technological lagging and exposes information systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus also data that contain greater security risks. In short, I will only read the last sentence of this material, which you have received as part of this agenda point, and it reads – The Ministry of Security problem of Internet abuse in terrorist and extremist but also other criminal purposes, sees one of the key security problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thinks that only the overall involvement of all relevant bodies, public and private sectors can improve the safety of the internet in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Conversing yesterday at the Defence and Security Commission, whose members I thank for the support, several, conditionally said, problems that some people have with this topic have. One of them who presented counterpart Dušanka Majkić is the claim that this is exclusively entity jurisdiction. That's not entirely true. Because all levels of government, and hence the state level of government, have its own powers. We had the opportunity for Mr. Vuković Vjekoslav from the Ministry of Security to be present at the session so that he would give us a few more information on what is already in this, I would say, with a dramatic response from the Ministry of Security to this issue, which is that legal legislation, was present and the former minister of justice, should be advanced, among other things and at the state level, that there are a series of obligations to the Ministry of Transport and Communication, that the Regulatory Agency for Communications has its specific role, etc., etc. It is also true that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a different way, legal legislation is harmonised, i.e. not in line with what should be, so that there is a difference in the degree of adjustment in entities, and that is the fact. However, the very fact that we had obligations to meet in 2001, 2006, '10, '12. And that much has not been done has been the reason for the launch of this initiative. A colleague, Bariša Čolak, a member of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, was as someone who was former minister of justice, also spoke about this and pointed out that this is an inter-resorial issue and that this should include the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and I absolutely support such an approach. That is why I find it incontestable that we are in charge of the Council of Ministers, which is the people who, I believe, will respond in the best way to this task, of course if Parliament accepts it, and by forming an Interresor Working Group, tell us where we are and what our obligations are. And in the end, I will only say that yesterday at the session there were talks about the possibility, or the inability to make within 60 days and to analyse the non-compliance of legal regulations and the existing situation in the area of cyber security and to propose legislation. People said it wasn't enough time for them. And for this reason, I would like to accept this kind of suggestion and propose, if necessary, that I will also deliver in writing, only a small technical amendment to the second conclusion which, in this sense, would say that it remains a 60-day period to carry out an analysis of the non-compliance of legal regulations and the existing stage in the area of cybersecurity and instead of words – and in line with the preparation of laws, to be put in place – in order to comply with these laws. Of course, the analysis will show. I don't intend to, and that's what I'm trying to say in advance, since I'm assuming that there are different thoughts, no one here trusts anyone else, in this way, to touch the jurisdiction of any level of power. This analysis will show that there's a lot of unfinished work both at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at entity level, not measuring who's better or worse, so let's give people a chance from the Ministry of Security to make that analysis, to tell us where we are, what's the job, and then go into law making. 23 Finally, I thank you once again for the opportunity to discuss this subject and thank the people of the Ministry of Security who have assessed this as a very important issue and their willingness to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11226	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, the debate. And the correction, Borislav Bojić, the correction of the wrong allegations, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11227	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Very short. So, since this issue has been resolved in Republika Srpska, it has not been resolved in the Federation and the analysis itself is not a problem. Based on the analysis, we're going to need what's necessary, but already to say it's the law, I think it's premature. So I think that this initiative is not bad, it really makes sense, but in what way it will be resolved to let us do it after an analysis has been done that will show that there are certain regulations at certain levels of power, that the Federation does not have that kind of regulation, and that the Federation needs to work on making that regulation, and then access to what we estimate, based on that analysis, that it is not possible to do. Here, that's short.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11228	Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11229	Well, let me explain. My colleague Bojić is right, so that's the point. Is there going to be a change of law I don't know. Since, say, BiH's Criminal Law, if you ask the Ministry of Justice, it can also be used to process crimes committed on the Internet. If you ask if it's being conducted, whether it's being processed, then it says no, because it's not very defined in the best way. And here it is said that following an analysis of the non-compliance of the existing situation, amendments to existing legislation are being submitted in accordance with this parliamentary procedure. First of all, it is thought of the Criminal Law, if they have any other laws, too, and possibly new legal solutions. Who can claim there might not be some law. But you're a colleague of Bojić's quite right, I agree, it will show an analysis, that we are not going into detail now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11230	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11231	Thank you. Well, I was trying to suggest yesterday on the defense committee. The prerequisite for any start should be the establishment of an Information Society Agency. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina has tried to do so in time, but because it is the entity's exclusive jurisdiction that 24 attempts failed. Now, in 2011, Republika Srpska, therefore, formed the Information Society Agency and adopted the Information Security Act in 2011. Accordingly, the Department of Information Security, whose task is to coordinate prevention and protection against computer security incidents and to protect cyber-infrastructures of public authorities and legal and physical persons. That's what we're talking about cyber crime and speech on the Internet and everything. So she made one effort and she did it. Why it wasn't done in the Federation is another problem. Now we are in an unequal relationship, and then as a rule follows that – if something does not exist in the Federation let's move it to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it will be faster and better. E can't be faster and better. Because on what basis will Bosnia and Herzegovina be analysed when there is no assumption of that? So if she had any assumptions based on which she could do it, what could be done? To call on the institutions of the Serbian Republic, which are in charge, this Agency, or the Information Security Department, and to say what it has done and what it intends to do. To do all these things in the Federation, and then to try to see what remains to be done in the context of the security sector that would be tasked with amending the Penal Code. So, it's a serious thing, you can't run an analysis without any preconditions, that's all I'm saying. I respect the initiative, but every initiative is worth as much as it can be. If it can't be realized, it's not worth it. So is that the best way? We've given the Council of Ministers an assignment that will be held by the head because there's no element from where he could go and start working on that plan. If we had the same conditions for both entities, we could just end it. Then we could say with the entities, let's see what else is left to get rid of at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the Criminal Law, to make that sanction. So everything else would be done. This is how we go hungry and thirsty, so we don't know where we're gonna go or what's gonna happen to us. Even if the effect of this initiative is supported today and I hope, colleague Magazinović, that we will remember, once reminding myself of what I said. So I want you to do maximum success in that, but I'm talking about the reality of what needs to be done before this kind of analysis could get on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11232	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11233	I thank the chairman. I think the initiative is extremely important and useful. As for the constitutional basis, I would like to stress, therefore, that there is absolutely a constitutional basis. You have a Article III 1.h) of the Constitution of BiH which establishes a clear responsibility for Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to establish and function inter-entity and international communications systems. So that's one thing. Then before that, you have a position in the BiH Constitution that gives clear authority to the state, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for inter-entity and international crimes. And these issues are among the most regulated at international level. So, when it comes to constitutional basis, I really don't see what's controversial. This is without a dilemma, among other things, in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as the proposal for a conclusion is concerned, I find it rather strange that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives warns all competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the 25th lack of proper legal legislation. We are the ones who adopt legal legislation, and now we warn the other institutions that there is no relevant legal legislation. I absolutely welcome the fact that an esteemed colleague has asked the Ministry of Security for these answers, and it is clear that the Ministry of Security has only been offered his questions to consider considering this problem, but let me say that as a competent executive body, it was mandatory and it was necessary to warn the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the lack of adequate legal legislation. So communication was supposed to go in that direction, not that we, who bring it, warn the executive body, who looks at it on the ground every day, that there is no adequate legal legislation. Therefore, the question arises as to what this executive body, or the person responsible in that executive body, has been doing all this time until your parliamentary question. And then he calls for urgent resolution of the same, by strengthening the capacity of security agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here, at the state level, who strengthens security agencies' capacities rather than the Parliamentary Assembly through appropriate legislation and through the budget at the end. Therefore, the communication was to go from the competent Ministry of Security, or the responsible person in that ministry, to the Parliamentary Assembly, rather than vice versa. So, I absolutely welcome the initiative, but I also find that here the Ministry of Security and here the Ministry of Security has not done their part of the job, so unfortunately communication needs to go towards them to finally explain what their job is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11234	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11235	Not wanting to get into... a problem that is huge, when it comes to the act and the violation of the law, or the violation of the law by something that should be, and we must... speak the language to understand us, not just us who are potentially dealing with or using funds, but also those who listen, means what people call surfing, work, control, writing, etc., that this is a problem that has been put as one of the priority problems in the world. We forget that something called e-mail is now recognised in all court proceedings and documents. So what our courts didn't even recognize, even electronic money transfers, is now the most normal thing to admit. If I wasn't talking about court proceedings where the courts didn't take it, they thought the money was in the bags. The hate speech is especially... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, Nikola, I have, I can name here a dozen of these lawsuits. The hate speech, the terrorism, the invasion of your privacy and so on. But the problem is that it's related, not just to the environment in which you live or the local environment, but to what can be related to Japan from here. From here it can be tied to the United States, from here it can be connected to any point on this planet, given how this system, the global system, works. And it's not just the Ministry of Justice anymore, it's going to need it, it's a much more complex problem, there's the Ministry of Labour and 26 Social Policy, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and so on. It's a very complex problem and I suggest that we adopt this conclusion proposal, so that, after the analysis we get, we see what it is that we need to do, or what it is that the Council of Ministers, Mr. Denise, should do, in order to have quality solutions at all levels. Here, we can talk like that. I don't care if it's the level of Republika Srpska, the Federation, the cantons, it'll probably come down to some lower levels, but externally we'll have to work on what's called and we say inter-entity, actually state and interstate. Some, something will have to happen, because, you read it, we all read it, today as amazing as what is not sanctioned, which does not stop, from hate speech to terrorism, to debauchery, and among other things, to insinuating and creating an atmosphere that can lead to great ugly consequences for individuals. Please take, type in, type in – suicides, and see how many suicides are due to communication through e-mail. And no one's answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11237	Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11238	Dear Chairman, colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members. I, like others, will be brief in this debate, firstly looking at the opinion of the BiH Defence and Security Commission which has found, therefore, that there is an initiative, that it has been submitted in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, supported that initiative and concluded that this initiative is being addressed to the House of Representatives. We do not have here in the Report whether the Commission has supported the proposal for conclusions as part of this initiative. And if she didn't, or if she didn't vote then we'd have to know here that there was no vote at all on these conclusions, and that is, a significant change in the relationship to the conclusions. Because it would normally be that, by discussing this initiative, the Commission supported or did not support the proposed conclusions. Secondly, with the fact that I would sign a 60% discussion by my colleague Majkić, the fact remains that in 2011, the Council of Ministers, meaning at its 156th session, adopted the CEFTA Strategy for the establishment of BiH, means 2011. With taj strategija he formed a working group, which did not finish his job, he never delivered a report on the completed work, but he did, so, by this act practically, means by adopting this strategy it is practically, in some ways, let me say under the alleged signs, he was admitted that there is a part of jurisdiction within Bosnia and Herzegovina in this area. And I don't think it's even questionable that there's jurisdiction in some of the elements in this area. I repeat, this has already been confirmed, therefore, by accepting this Strategy in 2011. And yes, now I don't want to, of course, cause controversy with this, I just want to, because of this, I said all of this to propose the corrections of the conclusions that my colleague Magazinović delivered, as follows. Namely, I suggest adding this point point to the first conclusion at the end of the text means deleting and adding the text – in accordance with existing legislation. Because watch out, strengthening the capacity of security agencies can only be carried out in accordance with existing legislation. And it is important to note that we would not have a problem later if we adopted these conclusions, so we get an analysis, then a proposal to measure, and then we realize that this proposal is not in line with what we have today, or with what is whose jurisdiction. As for the second conclusion, at the end of the text, I would also delete the point and place -- out of the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not now at this moment, what is in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, that will be the subject and we will discuss it when we get that analysis complete, so we will see to what extent this area is in the jurisdiction and criminal legislation, so if you want to discuss everything else, what is it also said by my colleague Backović. I absolutely think he's right when he says that this is an area that can't be solved in a way that's the responsibility of one ministry, but it's almost, when you look at it, in every ministry in one part of it. I will deliver these conclusions to all colleagues, i.e. changes in conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11239	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11240	I don't have any other way of talking to you in the end. So when, if you analyze what's said in this agenda point, we're all right and we're all wrong. But when after discussing who's right and who's wrong, go home and go to sleep, you wake up again in a country where this isn't solved and that's exactly what the Ministry of Security and the SIPA said. And then you have a choice, will you go back on the subject of who's right, who's wrong, or we'll do something to make it a little bit better. And today is that try, let's try it. We live in a country where you have daily open calls to terrorist acts, to murders, to hate on national, religious, I don't know what basis, and we all testify to that, on the Internet. And we live in a country where institutions that are supposed to co-exist say, either that they don't have a proper legal basis, or that they don't have the capacity, or that they argue with whose task it is, whether the owner of the portal or that the prosecution reacts immediately, etc. So, there's a lot of things unsettled. I do not dispute, I do not dispute, and I repeat again, that part of these powers, most of it, is outside Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, or outside the Council of Ministers. But what the representatives of the Department of Security said yesterday was to me, in fact, a star of leadership that we should go in this direction. They say let us show you where we are and what it is that needs to be promoted. And then you're the ones who make the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11241	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11242	As far as I'm concerned, here I am finishing up, as far as my colleague Novaković's proposal is concerned, I absolutely support it. So, to add -- in accordance with the existing law, I agree, we will not pass the law, to add -- from the jurisdiction of the institutions, I also agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11243	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11244	Thank you, Chairman. 28 Behold, I agree, as most MPs agree, that this is an inter-resor problem, that everyone should be involved, that it is an important issue, but I would like to draw attention, when we say so, that under Article 74 (2) of the Council of Ministers of BiH have an obligation to attend the sessions of the House. And now I don't know which one of the ministries, and here it can be assumed that they have nothing else to do with the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers and the resilient Minister Borovac, they attend the session, the others are gone. Is there any way for a college or someone to react to that? It's a practice, isn't it? The two of them support, and the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11245	Well, to this observation right now, I don't know how to react, because here we have all the time since the beginning of the Council of Ministers' session, so if he's here, I mean what to say, and we have a very distinguished minister, too, so here we go on. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11246	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I hope you didn't close the debate before I called in...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11247	Here's how you see I'm not.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11248	He's blaming the quote. So, we are pleased at the SNSD Club that the chairman is present at the time of the cybercrime debate, although we wanted to use his presence today to answer some more important issues concerning the coordination mechanism and in general European, Euro-Atlantic integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But to say what I've reported, for a false allegation. So, it refers to the latest exhibit by colleagues Magazinović who said that, I will paraphrasise, so that today we all listen to what we are listening to, so we go home, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when they wake up again in the morning, in a country where this issue is not resolved. Well, that's true to my colleague Magazinović, but you can't claim that for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Republika Srpska, as counterpart Majkić said, has solved this in the best possible way and what the law allows these issues. And it is certain that citizens in Republika Srpska when they wake up in the morning will not wake up in a society that has not regulated the issue. The fact that the Federation didn't regulate this question, that's another story. And of course we at the SNSD Club support that the Federation does. But that does not mean, therefore, that if an entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not resolved issues concerning this area and from this domain, it should be asked that it be resolved at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not its jurisdiction at the moment. So don't create an ambience and situation, and this is not the first situation that some issues that are not settled in the Federation are automatically trying to raise us to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because you will put us in a position to reject both what is useful and what is needed for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, first of all, we should appeal to the government in the Federation, and the institutions that are in charge of it in the Federation, to regulate this issue and thus to
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11249	Time. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11250	Helps the citizens. But I am fully convinced that just as we would settle this at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both entities and Brcko District, there will always be room as in other areas that citizens in this country will have problems with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11251	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11252	My predecessor really said what she needed to say. Yes, it is settled, partially solved on paper, but whether or not it's being conducted and whether or not it's something else. And I would ask you to, if anything, take and open the website www.rsportali.com, www.telegraf.rs, www.pupblikasrska.net, www.vest-online.com and I to you now, www.navidika.rs, so read how and how to write and comment. There's no better situation here in the Federation, you don't think, nothing. But since it's legally arranged there, I can see that everything that's written there is illegal, it's a question of all the questions, where Zaim Backović is the ballija, and where Bojić is my Chetnik. No, no, here I speak, I apologize for mentioning you since we've known each other for a long time, that you don't mean in an ugly context, please. Eh, but let's start really talking about this problem. So, here, I've only given you some portals of respect, ma'am. Now... it wouldn't take me two hours to count them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11253	Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11254	So, a colleague of SDP club Saša Magazinović no doubt proposed a well-intentioned initiative that could benefit all citizens and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I just want to make this argument that he already presented that there is absolutely no obstacle that we do not properly regulate it here so that this area is as well arranged as possible. And if we are already talking about constitutional powers, then I would like to say that Article III of the Constitution of BiH, point 5(a) provides an absolute constitutional basis for the state to protect the security of all its citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11255	Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11256	I have to say a few sentences to my esteemed colleague Marković and certainly welcome the initiative of my colleague Saša Magazinović, because what I heard is that Republika Srpska has solved this problem, and it is certainly commendable, but cyberspace has no limits, we have it in our heads, and it is a danger to all people, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in the whole world. And I therefore welcome this initiative itself, and I think that both the criminal acts that are regulated and where the jurisdiction has the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BiH Prosecutor's Office can find their basis in what is called cyberspace and what it brings when it comes to these crimes, not to mention 30 calls to terrorist activities, etc., and all that we can follow through the internet today and all that we see on the portals that we open. So I think the initiative is very good, and I think we should get that fact out of our heads, or not there, because I think we should focus on solving this problem in a way that all citizens in our country are safe. And certainly, they also called the Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman, and I think yesterday's application to Bosnia and Herzegovina for EU membership is an answer to all the questions you had today or should have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11257	Thank you. I'm closing the debate at this point in the agenda. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Consideration of the Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads: "I propose that you set up a point on the agenda of the following meetings under the title: Establishing a parliamentary group to promote the right to freedom of faith and conviction, in accordance with Article 18. General Declarations on Human Rights’ The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 15.02.2016 and adopted the initiative and forwarded it to the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. Senad Šepić, the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11259	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So the right to freedom of faith or belief is one of the fundamental human rights. All our acts in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina guarantee this right. In practice, there are often some misunderstandings. So, due to our historical experience, we may need more than in some other environments to hold a debate on this issue or, in some way, to have legitimacy at the highest legislative level of protection, which is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Many and large international organisations have their own special rapporteurs reports that treat exactly the state of freedom of faith and belief. So this has the European Parliament, the British Parliament, Norway, the American Congress, the US State Department, the UN also has a special rapporteur on the state of, uh, freedom of faith and beliefs. There are also more, there are several global international initiatives that bring together parliamentarians from around the world who deal with this issue. I had the opportunity in September to be at one of these forums and meet somewhere over 120 parliamentary colleagues from over 70 countries around the world. So it's an international panel of parliamentarians for freedom of faith or belief. Documents that treat the right, i.e. freedom of faith or belief are the General Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution of BiH, the Law on freedom of religion and the legal position of 31 churches, I only list what we already have in our legislation, then the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination... And what I want to encourage and achieve with this initiative, this is what I proposed on 10.12. this initiative, so there was no story of this which had a bit of arousal to the public about certain interpretations of decisions made by the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council. So we know what conclusion we're talking about. I don't think anybody with one of those conclusions got anything in the state, and I think we've all lost a little bit, because we've started dealing with some issues that I don't think we need again. We're wasting unnecessary energy on something that we might have some of our, uh, mechanisms, in the system and in the state that we have arranged. So, I think it is necessary to protect, in such a way as to protect and prevent ambiguities, it is the BiH Parliament that has the authority to guarantee and protect, therefore, the right to freedom of faith or belief. And I would suggest that, above all, I would ask my colleagues to support today's initiative, thank the Commission for the human rights that unanimously supported this. And what exactly are we supposed to, uh, achieve? So if we were to form an open parliamentary group, here we are 42, in the House of Nations there are 15 colleagues, this, delegates, that would be an open group of people who have an interest, have a desire and have, as I would say, a tendency to deal with these issues, and it would have approximately a mandate to propose the necessary amendments and amendments to the law, to ask parliamentary questions about freedom of faith or beliefs, to send parliamentary letters to certain stakeholders on specific issues and to co-operate with international governmental and non-governmental organisations. In that sense, I would also suggest that we charge the Commission for Human Rights today to, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers, prepare a broader information, which I am telling you about right now, as clear as possible and as concrete as possible, so but to get one broad information, that we are prepared by the Council of Ministers and the Commission for Human Rights in which we would clearly propose the full information and a clear framework and mandate for the action of this parliamentary group on which we would then declare ourselves as a House of Representatives, i.e. as Parliament's Assembly after we have all this information. And as this parliamentary group should look around, I said earlier. She, this is perhaps one of the first steps so that Parliament's overall action in the coming period can be changed and so that we can make Parliament have more and more function, more and more opportunities, more interest, to really be what Parliament and Parliament should be, in my opinion, really. So, within the framework, this would be done, this would be an open group, as I said earlier, each of us parliamentarians would join, or engage in their own interests and according to their proclivities, of course they would be part of our already existing engagement and work. Let us immediately point out that this, this, participation and work in this parliamentary group would not be paid, so it is voluntary, acting on a voluntary basis within this parliamentary group and perhaps not in this, apart from what I mentioned earlier, we would have information about this area once or twice a year as part of that mandate. So, of those people who would have a mandate to address all the institutions, I said a moment ago, and governmental, but also international, so that we could have as best and quality information as possible about this situation. And I said a moment ago, when I proposed this, there was no thought of any, obviously, stories about what we currently have when it came to this disturbance of the whole scene, i.e. the entire public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the conclusion of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. If we had one such group where we could discuss it and we were to give in this sense our proposals and our opinions and before any institution of the state sends any kind, I would say, attitude or opinion about something that affects freedom of faith 32 or beliefs, they should have an opinion and should have an opinion from, people who are most directly elected by the people and represent to the end the will of the people throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I would ask you, therefore, to support, here with this conclusion, I will allow this to be copied for MPs, along with this initiative and the conclusion that I have proposed, so that after we have all the information we can make a decision on the formation of this parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11260	Damir Arnaut, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11261	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, as far as the initiative itself is concerned about the formation of the group, I also put it on the Commission yesterday, there is absolutely nothing questionable about this group in particular and in general about the groups. The BiH Castle Parliamentary Assembly, not only for the rest of the world, but also for the region, and you, if you just look at the legislative bodies in the region, will see that there are very many groups of these types, therefore which are not official commissions, but groups that have open membership depending on the individual interests of the members of that legislative body and members of the legislative body are joining each other according to their different groups. You have various, here's freedom of faith one question, you have diaspora groups and the like. However, what is absolutely unclear to me here, and here I will officially ask Mr Bojić as the chairman of the Commission, who signed the Report, or Opinion on the Parliament's initiative, is yesterday, or I made an objection to the fact that the initiative is - in accordance with Article 18. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I pointed out the fact that the Universal Declaration as such, i.e. as an act of the UN Assembly does not have an internationally legally binding character, has no international legal character as a declaration, and I pointed out that it would be much more appropriate to refer to a document that has an international legal character, which is Article 9. The European Convention on Human Rights, not only through the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the signatories of the Convention, but also through the fact that the Convention is an integral part of the Constitution of BiH. Proposer Mr. Šepić, who was present at the Commission's session, remember, if I remember correctly, he is there, said he fully agrees and said he agreed to add – in accordance with Article 9. European Conventions on Human Rights and Article 18 Universal declarations, I agreed and the Commission voted on it. And now this, it bothers me with one general principle because, I mean, can we trust what we officially get from the Joint Commission on Human Rights, you have a tone record, but I don't think even in this case it takes as clearly as it was yesterday. So, I wasn't the only one involved, Mr. Šepić's promoter agreed to it, I think Mr. Genjac is, but I'm not sure, but someone else said something about it. He was a delegate from the House of Nations who also discussed this and read Article 9. European Conventions on Human Rights. So, absolutely undeniable and now I'm asking for some moderation to be found here to correct this opinion according to what the Joint Commission adopted yesterday. So this here, absolutely without any dilemma, is not what the Joint Commission adopted. And if anyone who was present at the Joint Commission's session wants to correct me, I will be very happy to participate in this debate, but I think we all know what was adopted yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11262	Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11263	Well, an esteemed colleague, so I'd be happy to give you a brief explanation. This initiative, as an initiative, has been accepted by the Commission to go to parliamentary debate, not to dispute the facts you spoke of, but it would have been much better if we had had had the conclusions that fellow Šepić is now presenting here in the House of Representatives, and that the Commission, as in the next point, expressed itself in relation to the conclusion which has the content as it has. But the Commission has not considered these conclusions at all, and now the House of Representatives will deal with the work that was to be done by the Commission itself and come with a clear conclusion on these issues. We just said on the Commission that this could go as a part of the agenda. Whether the part is now missing, I do not want to deal with the stenogram issue now, I will be very happy to take and listen to the stenogram, in any case, and my colleague Šepić has agreed that this question should also be content, but that does not mean that the agenda point should solve the whole content issue. We're not going to write everything in the agenda that was the content of our discussions. Therefore, it would be better for the Commission alone to have a proposal for the conclusions of counterpart Šepić and if the Commission had made a statement on the proposal for a conclusion, then this House of Representatives could make a decision more easily. This way, we will have a quick or hasty proposal for a conclusion which the House of Representatives will now declare and the question arises as to how this initiative will actually end. We've all said that there's a need to talk about this topic, to discuss this subject, but in the epilogue itself, we'll see it, right here in front of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11264	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11265	Here's just to, therefore, help a little bit, uh, I forgot to say it, it's true that yesterday my colleague Arnaut discussed it this way and that I accepted yesterday on the Commission, this, the Joint Commission and here I am going to propose that in the title of this initiative, except in accordance with Article 18, just add – and the European Convention on Human Rights. Because the European Convention on Human Rights has two members, the first one is identical to this Article 18. The Charter of Human Rights of the UN, so that nothing will fundamentally change that. But from what I understand, therefore, and Mr. Chairman Bojić, he was only in principle yesterday, since we didn't have any more information, passed this on as support, and my obligation was in some way to take over this part, because we agreed yesterday with Damir. So here, after this discussion, we can then have, as it is called, what we want to post, which is that we have support on both sides of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11266	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11267	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Pointed to Mr. Bojić. I'm also taking the opportunity to thank you for what Mr. Šepić said, because that's exactly what happened yesterday. So, on the Joint Commission, we voted on the initiative of Senad Šepić, amended in accordance with the debate, therefore, amended. Listen to the tone record, therefore, it has been added, in the name of the initiative, is added – in accordance with Article 9. The European Convention and Article 18, the rest of the text remained the same. 34 So what I find controversial is the credibility of the Commission's acts, taking into account how clear it is that anything we adopted yesterday. And I'd like to ask for a little more attention in the future and that these things don't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11268	Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11269	Very briefly, without intending to burden myself, so basically nothing changes, we will talk, therefore, about the content, and the content will be proposed by colleagues Šepić. And we'll come to the Commission again to consider the proposal for a conclusion. If it was a mistake, I apologize, let's say it was my fault, which I wouldn't exactly say I could make such a mistake to do something with intent, with intent nothing was done. So we're talking about Mr. Šepić's initiative, which he described as what he described. The promoter didn't suggest any conclusions, didn't suggest material or anything else. So we will also need to talk again on the Commission, and possibly engage other institutions in order to discuss this topic. The question arises, we are opening a process in the Parliamentary Assembly to introduce this kind of parliamentary work. So, it will need to be safe, whether we take this practice that is present, about which counterpart Šepić spoke, or not, it is a matter of Parliament and parliamentarians. So, that's what we need to talk about. If we introduce this kind of puck, then we need to see what these are all about, it will not be just this Commission, this task force, but it will be a spectrum of rye commissions and certainly that MPs are interested in other issues. I consider this an initiative that opens up a debate on this subject, but I also extend far broader issues that will certainly be a dozen. So the Parliamentary Assembly should determine whether this will be the way in which we will, therefore, form these kinds of working bodies, since we have permanent working bodies. So we introduce working bodies that are something that is not binding, MPs who want to work in these kinds of working groups will answer themselves, the question arises... rules, ways of working in these working groups, in which way the working groups will have the right to determine the acts that the colleague was talking about. So this isn't quite over, this is for discussion, the initiative is good, but it needs to be discussed in Parliament, on the table. I don't think we've made any mistakes and it's a good thing we're discussing whether we wrote a sentence or not, uh, it's not intentional.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11270	Milica Marković, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11271	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, here, I'll make a few comments about this initiative. First of all, I want to say that I have listened to a very careful colleague named Šepić, but I must say that I did not quite understand the purpose and purpose of establishing such a parliamentary group that has its name, so it would aim to promote the right to freedom of faith and persuasion. I have to say one general thing, so this is quite a new initiative in our Parliament, because it has not, it has not been a practice so far to establish such parliamentary groups, which is the case in some other parliaments and in our environment and beyond, but when such parliamentary groups or parliamentary networks are established, as it is still called, then there is an exact goal and purpose for why it is established. When I was thinking about this initiative, so there can only be two things here that to me, it could be the first thing that's clear to me, and the second one can't be completely. So, this is what fellow 35 Arnaut was talking about, so if it is a violation of human rights from this domain, if someone is usurped with the right to faith and religion and convictions that he has as his own world supervisory office, then it is one of the broader issues to deal with both Parliament and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I think we can all admit here and say that at least in Bosnia and Herzegovina today, or we don't know about it, but I don't think it's the situation that today's religion and light-headed and persuasion, which each of us has individually, that they dispute and usurp. If that is the case, therefore, if there are such cases and such occurrences, then of course it is a question of a broader context, therefore not only for such a parliamentary committee. So I'd like to know what's concrete. If counterpart Šepić has knowledge that such a parliamentary committee should contribute to improving the situation, and the right to believe and to convictions, the religion is within the scope of human rights, if that exists, then Bosnia and Herzegovina has a serious problem with different aspects. If this has something else to do with this, and I will only list a few examples, then it is known that there are parliamentary committees, for example in the Serbian Parliament, the Women's Parliamentary Committee, where all MPs are involved, regardless of political membership, so those in that Committee are working to promote and improve the state of the women's population, both in the government and in the sphere of human rights and in other domains of society. And that's their job they're working on independently. There is a Parliamentary Committee, for example, to fight child pornography, where a group of MPs are working on that domain. But here to say there's a parliamentary committee, if there's a new body to be introduced, then it's a new story. So, then another context opens up, and we should know that in the initiative, so in the position of the promoter, is that the intention to introduce some new, new body here in the sphere of permanent bodies. I didn't understand it here from the initiative, but of course you can talk about it. It would be good if we had also had in these conclusions, proposed today by counterpart Šepić, that we had the Commission's position, but of course everything that is not, on which no parliamentary commission can be declared, MPs and Parliament as a whole. So, I do not dispute that every domain, every sphere of one society should work on that, where there are shortcomings to improve them, to improve this situation, but of course we must have a clear situation, so what is the goal and intention with it. And I am, and again I will say, convinced that the sphere of human rights in this domain, which is indicated and written in the name of this parliamentary committee, I don't think there is, or there is, to a significant extent, a violation of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if this should be some debate club in our Parliament where parliamentarians will be involved with their own interest or their own independence, I do not dispute it either, so everyone has the right to participate in different forums and to discuss it and give their proposals and initiatives, but if it is about introducing a new body and bodies into the permanent bodies of Parliament, then of course we must take a special debate and certainly determine ourselves accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11272	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11273	Thank you. I actually want to replicate to all those who have said that there is a expressed need to form such a parliamentary group. I don't think there is. In fact, there would be if we had information here that this area, which is the right to freedom of faith and religious beliefs, is sufficiently not legally, if you will, processed... 36 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, that's defined by the Constitution, by all conventions, etc., and if in application of that, then there's a problem. I do not see that there is a problem and I really do not see the need to set up a parliamentary group that will promote the right to freedom of faith and persuasion today in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this Parliament. And that is why I will not support this initiative because I believe that this is unnecessary, unnecessary in Parliament, that we have this area fully and securely legal and constitutionally, etc., but also in practice absolutely. Of course, if it's covered, if there are individual jumps, we're not going to build a promotional task force because some, in some individual cases, we have a problem. It's not a matter of promotion, it's a matter of something else, or a matter of competent institutions and bodies that need to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11275	Thank you. Debate, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11276	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Šepić's initiative, first of all, is what my colleague from the SBB said at the very beginning, should be based on the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 9, which I fully agree with, because it is also what we rely on in the Constitution of BiH, meaning not on the Convention but on the constitutional provision. And this, what Mr. Šepić suggests, I understand a little wider, not only as a fundamental freedom in terms of religion, but in terms of all commitment. So I'm going to go with little examples to make it a little bit more understandable for us. The U.S. has the pistachios, it was, if it wasn't in the meantime, what changed, 240 and some religions, officially, official. Among these religions are those religions that in their postulates are in line with the American Constitution or the laws of the states in which they exist within the United States. However, through their right to their persuasion and commitment they are viewed through what we call lex specialis as a special separate community where their beliefs, their beliefs are ultimately respected. I've cited an example of Amiš here, just laugh, but it's a fact, if someone was and saw it all clear to him, and a large number of our citizens rely on, say, a community of Čikag Amiš because they're not allowed to slaughter, buy sheep, calves from them, and they're doing it on their property, and they can't do it, and in American law it's forbidden, there's no one to ban. Just so you know, that's what communities do and there's no more whether there's one, the other, the third, but both Bošnjak and Hrvat and Srbin and everyone at Amiš's weekend to get supplies. This isn't just about other types of tolerance, in terms of sex, in terms of sexual orientation, in terms of, no, why don't we just say that we have a lot of haters who love, I don't know, here's what my colleague likes, likes the Internet. And so in turn, there's everything and everything. Therefore, it is necessary to support that we enter into the essence of this problem through Article 9. The Convention or through our Constitution and thus paved the way, because a large number of laws that we must pass, and in accordance with the Roadmap, according to the agenda is just bound to this, is simply 37 bound. School, when did you hear about our ten-year-old kid being enrolled by the university, when did you hear? When did you hear that we had a 90-year-old in college? I could put it like this forever. So this is much broader than the context of religious, national belief or any other, and it needs to be supported in order to get into the essence of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11277	Lazar Prodanović, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11278	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, yesterday on the committee, I also told the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and I agree with this remark, which the distinguished colleague Arnaut noted is the same... that fellow Šepić, who, with great enthusiasm, is trying to win this parliamentary initiative in some way. I believe that we have no obstacles to informal parliamentary bodies, and in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, they can absolutely form. So we have these forms of action, I think it's unnecessary to define this business as defined and the other parliamentary bodies, that's one thing. And secondly, so we are not in agreement about this, this is a very important issue in the field of human rights and given the experience of colleague Šepić in terms of his presence at certain global forums, I believe that it is possible to make such a parliamentary body without any decision of this House, therefore which would have had its Rules of Procedure, as in the Parliamentary Assembly there is a parliamentary group for the population and development,... the experience of the UN Fund for Population and Development and therefore the European Parliament owns... a similar group, and we have an informal group that has its Rules of Procedure and... does not report anything special to the homes, so there are activities that they carry out in accordance with these international activities. /The ambassador is very difficult to understand what he is saying/ In this sense, I find it unnecessary for the Council of Ministers to prepare this information because there is a law in Bosnia and Herzegovina that absolutely allows freedom of faith and religion and religious beliefs. I also believe that after that, this information, in order to after that, to propose a parliamentary group for freedom of faith and belief, whose decision to establish a establishment would then be considered and set up by the Parliamentary Assembly. I think that's really unnecessary. If there is work to be done on any amendments to the Rules of Procedure, every MP has the right to submit an initiative to form parliamentary bodies, if this goes businessly, I have nothing against it, but I don't think we have any obstacle now that, as an informal group in the Parliamentary Assembly, it can act in this way and satisfy its activities, therefore within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also on the international stage. There is no need for this to be formed, nor to ask for this information from the Council of Ministers, they already have certain obligations both under the conventions and obligations of the agreement, therefore with religious communities, from the Holy See, the Orthodox Church and probably in the future with the Islamic Religious Community and others, so that these frameworks and these agreements can be respected. So I think it's unnecessary to look for this firm form of establishment of this kind of work, and I have to say that we cannot support it in that form. In that form. _________(?) 38 [[no microphone turned on]] Without any problems, if you organize a group, if there is my interest, I have no obstacles to business or parliamentary, to be a member of an informal group, such as 9 years in the parliamentary group for population and development, and I have not had any interference from the Club or in any sense, nor to perform in terms of action. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11281	Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11282	Thank you. So, I generally support this idea, whether it will take the proportions of informal... MPs, MPs or get some form of behavior at least for starters, to me right now it doesn't even matter. I'm glad that colleague Šepić raised this question because we may be running away from... the fact that, so I don't know if I'm going to tell the truth, 90% of the residents of this state are believers. So, yes, we, too, are, I don't know, most of us probably believers, so they want good communication with the faith. So we have 100 questions raised in various ways when it comes to adoption, for example. rules of cooperation with the civil sector, and let's never ask for the opinion of the religious communities on some issues of humanitarian law, human rights, etc., as they see it. So, because we're part of them, I am, I believe that a large part of the MPs here are also. I don't know what form it's going to get or content, but I do know by chance that religious communities except the Interreligious Council are dissatisfied with the way they cooperate with the state. So, I know that from an earlier engagement, for example. They were looking for their time, and now I don't think they're giving up, that the Council of Ministers is forming an office for co-operation with religious communities. So it's never formed. Some kind of form, to say the least, of constant and professional cooperation with them. For example, they have a lot of questions that ask us or the Council of Ministers, which is, for example, Health insurance of religious officials, e.g. Retirement insurance, e.g. their opinion on laws, e.g. the return of property. So there are many questions that religious communities have to ask. And I think they're a very significant factor in this country. And I think that fellow Šepić, is it now well articulated here, raised that question well. And I think we need to find a solution, whether it's for the start of an informal parliamentary group that still has some rules of conduct, so we're going to see if that's how we're going to satisfy the interests and official representatives of religious communities to co-operate with such a parliamentary group, a committee or what we're going to call it, and that we might be opening these issues with them as well. Why not hear their opinion of the formal, therefore, formal bodies of this House without telling the Council of Ministers. I hope we find a solution. As for me personally, therefore, I can support the initiative as an initiative and see what will bring us this proposal, but I am certainly one 39 formalized cooperation with religious communities that are a significant factor in this country, so daily life.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11283	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11284	In fact, just a small addition, not wanting to leave anything unsaid, respected counterpart Lovrinović. The individual act of each of us is who is a believer who is not a believer. Only the one above us, when we lift our finger up, knows who is the true believer and who is not, and he is the only one who will judge us. But also those whom we say are unbelievers, they are great believers, if they believe in their ideals, the principles of life and so on, and it's strange to define what is religious and what is human. So I wouldn't look at it that way, because if Bog had or Alah, and I believe that there is, for all of us is one, because if Islam is right, all the rest of the population of the duneluc will go to hell, if Catholicism is just the administration, everything else will go to hell, if Orthodoxy is just the administration, everything will go to hell, and then we forget that we have Hindus, Buddhists of different cataraganes and beyond, various beliefs, that we have religions that have survived, no matter what they've tried to be destroyed in the middle, I don't know Peru, you still have those who remain on the principles of old, what we call an Indian, an indigenous population. And so in order, and so on. So for all the population, Bog is just one, and what we've done in this world, mixing him up and actually fighting people, is something else. Let's make people believe in good, not evil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11285	Maja Gasal--Vražalica, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11286	Well, I would like to correct my colleague Lovrinović precisely because I would not be dealing with percentages especially because there is no statistical data at any level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they should not be because it is really a believer or a non-believer one of the individual things of every citizen in this world, so I don't know where 90% of any personal assessment, especially since in Bosnia and Herzegovina today everyone is actually allowing themselves to interpret what a true believer is, or the unbelievers, so I would say even most of the population is holding back to pleading with any religion because it's all so distorted that some of us remain restrained to plead on this matter. The other thing is that you have stated that the religious community is not really asking to the extent to which it should be asked, that some, if I understand correctly, NGOs are more concerned. I would like to remind you of the past term where a law on medically assisted fertilisation, which is very important for citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the religious community in Bosnia and Herzegovina has intervened, even because of this involvement where they have given themselves the right to judge whether it should be for the citizens and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the law has never entered into the parliamentary procedure. So I don't really want to support it and simply that your freedom to say that some non-governmental sectors are respected and the religious community isn't. Everyone has the right to come forward on a matter and they do, indeed, that religious community in Bosnia and Herzegovina does when it suits them. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11287	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11288	Correction of the wrong allegation in the discussion of fellow Lovrinović, who, if I understood it correctly, said that such an initiative should be accepted for reasons to improve co-operation and communication with religious communities, if I have interpreted you well. I just want to say that there is an inter-religious council in this country that has very good communication with both entity and municipal institutions, and therefore it does not stand for your findings, because this Inter-religious Council, which includes representatives of all religious conflicts in this country, has the right, and it does, that, like any other association of citizens, it can deliver any initiative, not only an initiative, but also a request for material, technical and any other support and assistance, which the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing. And such a finding of yours, in fact, if we were to think in that direction now, could bring us to the ground to ask an open and correct question, in advance, so what I'm going to say as a believer, ever since I've known myself, so all my life, but I want to tell the truth for, so we'd come to the ground to ask the question of human rights and the relations of the citizens in this country who say the following, and there are enough of them, so the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are working together, supporting religious communities and materially, and communicative, and certainly, but as a mother or as a father in this society were either happier that the authorities gave at least a third of those funds to the religious communities that they gave to schools, to sports fields, to the centres of culture, to sports halls, and to others, which should be particularly young and to the young population in this country. So, I am happy that the authorities in Republika Srpska are supporting religious institutions and I am helping and I need it and let it remain, but of course we must not go into this observation and observation of this domain, because we will come to a situation that others tell us of course – so here we have not received as much as others have received in this society, and yet we are asked to do so even more. I think we need to take care of it, and we need to have a balance on that sort of thing. So I understand you...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11289	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11290	But you have to take care of it. Perhaps you, I believe that you know that there is an interreligious advice that has absolutely the right to observe and to give its opinion on all issues relating to religious communities.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11291	Mirsad Đonlagić, not respecting the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11292	I really don't mind a single discussion and I don't dispute anyone's right to discuss it, but I would ask my colleagues to leave our energy and time for much more important things that we don't have on the agenda today. I do not believe and I am sure that this is not the most important issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course not contesting that there are certain problems there as well. This can really be solved if there's any good will in any way you want, but we have to admit that 41 of us have been separated from the agenda in a certain way. I would invite all colleagues to return to the agenda to discuss it, if I need to, and we will discuss it further, but to stick to the agenda and to be as effective as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11293	I thank my colleague, Đonlagić. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11294	Well, I agree with my colleague, Đonlagić, so the debate went a little bit where it might not be necessary, for a good initiative, for me. Only the correction, Mrs. Gasal, so the religious communities didn't judge anything, they gave their opinion. That's a different story. So, I'm absolutely a secular state, but I'm sure in the previous Law, which we've discussed today, about associations, so I also know on the Constitutional Commission that one part of the Civil Society Association has been asked very much, but let's say it wasn't the most important organization of civil society, if we're going to call it that, is it, therefore, a religious community or a religious community. The Inter-religious Council is mostly discussing between itself, as far as I know, issues concerning them and what problems they have, but they do not have a good one, as far as I know, communication relations with neither the executive authorities nor the legislative ones. This may be an attempt to fix it, and I don't know, so what else would that story be spreading? When some specific topics come up, we can talk about them, but I think I was just clear about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11295	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11296	Since I'm the first among the debaters, here's if you'll allow me to have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11297	And then check out with the correction of the wrong quote for the sake of time. Denis Bećirović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11298	Thank you. So, regardless of certain inaccuracies,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11299	We'll keep an eye on the fact that it's now out of the debate, but we'll take care of the weather. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11300	So, regardless of what is this formulated initiative of the esteemed colleague, Šepić, is partly inaccurate and insufficiently defined, but I suppose he also planned to bring up appropriate adequate conclusions through the debate and 42 specific proposals, this initiative between the lines, so we can say both indirectly and directly, talks, first of all, about two things. First, we live in a country where the BiH Constitution is not respected. We live in a country where the current structures of government don't respect the laws of this country. When I say the laws, given the topic we are talking about, in particular, the provisions of the Law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not respected. The law was passed here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If we had respect for constitutional provisions and legal provisions, such an initiative wouldn't be on the agenda at all today, but we're obviously not in this situation. Because if we were, this country and the structure of government would, above all, respect Article 2. The law on freedom of religion and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where a direct ban on religious or belief-based discrimination would be imposed, would be respected by Article 5 and Article 7 of that Law, and responsible representatives of the authorities would have in mind and a member of the 14th Law, point (3), which says – no church or religious community in Bosnia and Herzegovina can receive special privileges from the state, or through the whole law, the principle of equality is promoted according to all churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So human rights are being violated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. counterpart Lovrinović said over 90% of believers live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not have official data from the published census that I can say what percentage it is, although I suppose my colleague Lovrinović is not far from the figure that I believe will be published even after the official confirmation of the census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, this fact itself tells us about one absurdity, the absurdity is that if 90% of the citizens who declare themselves to be believers, how that 90% of the citizens of a country who plead as believers have structures of authorities that are unable to protect religious rights of believers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, it's not the only question of human rights violations, because wherever you look, you will face the flagrant forms of human rights violations. To go into the field of labour legislation, mass violations of labour rights. Who in this country cares about workers when they're working on plus 40 or minus 30. What about the right to language, over 2 million people in this country, and that is guaranteed by the Constitution. However, the issue is that the Constitution is not respected, and when I say disrespecting the Constitution, I mean disrespecting the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. In the Constitution of BiH, it has gained an extremity, has priority over all other laws. It is not a question of whether or not we will implement it, it is prescribed by the Dayton Peace Agreement and entered in Annex IV. So if we implement the Constitution, if we implement the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, and I repeat, it has an additional character in our constitutional justice system, we will not be in the problems we are in today. And should one be reminded that we have violations of the rights and of the believers in this country. So look only in the last few months, that I don't speak for years, how many times there have been attacks on people coming out of religious objects, how many times have religious objects been stoned, how many times have there been burglaries in religious objects, inappropriate graphites on religious objects, etc. Why hide that truth? So, if this initiative by colleagues Šepić can at least point to the problem, to shed light on at least one field in the sea of human rights violations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then this initiative makes sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11301	Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11302	I say hello again. 43 I need to say a few sentences here. So, the initiative as an initiative would really be pointless if anyone on this and on any other topic said this should not be discussed in Parliament, and I think it should and I think it is okay to discuss this topic in Parliament. But when we take, therefore, the quality of the prepared initiative I think it is unqualityly prepared, that the conclusion itself is unqualityly prepared, because it says, among other things, that the Joint Committee on Human Rights and the Council of Ministers is in charge, but what is even strange – that the Council of Ministers determines the framework for the work of the parliamentary group. As far as I know, we are setting a framework for the Council of Ministers' action, and I would not be setting things up right now that the executive body of government determines the framework for the work of parliamentarians or parliament. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I read what it says. So it writes that in co-operation with the Council of Ministers to establish, it proposes a framework and mandate for the parliamentary group to act. The Council of Ministers and the Joint Commission should now establish a framework for parliamentary groups to act. What do I think we should do? I think we should open a discussion as we discuss, that the Parliamentary Assembly of both homes assess whether we need informal parliamentary groups? To be the subject of discussion and debate. If we consider that we should have informal parliamentary groups, then we should set rules for the action of informal parliamentary groups. Who's gonna make those rules? I don't know. I am now unable to say who should do such a single document in which to define, we have our Rules of Procedure, we have a way of action, we have parliamentary groups that we have established, these would be parliamentary groups that are not binding. That kind of rules of conduct of informal parliamentary ones, I believe, are also going to bring to the public the informal parliamentary group, because it is difficult to tell parliamentarian it is informal. I think it is also formal because when a parliamentarian takes his position and in an informal parliamentary group, it is not an irrelevant thing, it is, in my opinion, a very important thing. That is why Parliament should determine on this kind of initiative because it opens up a space for the creation of new informal parliamentary groups that will cover a wide range of issues. I need to say one more thing, of course, I will review the stenogram from the session of the Commission, but my colleague Arnaut here, to tell you that Mr Senad Šepić and at the point of the 7th agenda when he proposes the conclusion he does not call at all to the European Convention and Article 9, but calls on the General Declaration of Human Rights and Article 18. So it would be correct if, even when proposing the conclusion, it would be called to the binding convention that you were talking about. So it's hard for me to follow him and understand what he thinks, once he says it like this, twice like that, so sometimes I don't understand it, and it's best to read what he writes, and it says what he writes in the opening statement. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11304	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11305	In conclusion, you can call, in the introduction or in the preamble of the conclusion itself, to what you think should be the content of your conclusion. 44 So that all the subject itself should be the subject of debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. The agenda item is under-prepared, under-prepared. We need to discuss the basics, whether we need these kinds of parliamentary groups, I see that there are provisions for MPs, and some people don't think we should. We need them, I would, in my opinion, do the following – I would give the Research Sector of the Parliamentary Assembly the task of carrying out a comparative analysis of the activities of informal parliamentary groups, both in the environment and elsewhere, that this kind of information would satisfy, in my opinion, the Parliamentary Assembly and from there we could withdraw some of the information as the informal parliamentary groups act, since we have no experience in the activities of informal parliamentary groups. I hope I have not said anything to disrupt this way of discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly, but perhaps, in some way, to direct further activities. And we are not using the Research Sector in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and here we have employees who are doing their job. If we had that kind of prepared agenda point in a way that there was a comparative analysis here, this debate would certainly be completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11306	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11307	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Novaković, it is not the point when they are, it is not the point whether you think whether this particular parliamentary group or not should be held, is precisely the point of informal parliamentary groups. And here, when you look at Parliament, i.e. the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, means by the way, that we say informal, that is, those who are not working, other than those of their committees, which are called committees, subcommittees, working groups, survey committees, etc., they have a whole series of informal parliamentary groups where people join, or members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where people join on the basis of their affinities, findings, etc., of free choice. They have an example. Parliamentary Forum for Energy Policy of Serbia, Parliamentary Group for Open Parliament, Parliamentary Group for the Reform of the Political System, Economic... So these are all, to be very precise, these are all these informal groups, these are not their committees that are permanent working bodies. And that's what we're talking about here, that's you informal or so to speak, not working groups that exist beyond their working bodies. So it's not the point whether any of us individually consider whether one or more groups need one or more or not to be specific. If you think it is, do not get attached if you are not in it. Here, let's say, this one that Šepić suggests I don't have theseaffinities, I won't join, but I also want to follow the European, so here's the regional... I've now quoted what we have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And if there's a group forming tomorrow that I have an interest in and affinity, then I'll join. And the whole point is that we all have a choice, that's the point of this whole story.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11308	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11309	So, let me comment on this. I thank everyone for the discussions, just a few comments. So, Col. Milica says -- if we need to have this group of 45, then we're like a country in trouble. I quote, has a European Parliament, has a British, has a Norwegian, has a State Department, has Obama, Canada, Norway, etc., so they're in trouble, but they're looking for ways to answer that problem. This is not my attempt to introduce any permanent bodies, we will determine here whether we need permanent bodies and we are making a decision, as it is called, about it. A colleague, Novaković, said he saw no problem in this area. I really think a colleague that we have a problem with that it's about freedom of faith and... So, I just said one of those things, someone would say, a harmless case, but you know how much it is, you saw how much he's produced turbulence and problems about the ban on wearing, as it's called, scarfs in these institutions of court and prosecution. So, in America, I've been saying this recently, in America you have a perfectly normal situation that a woman who has a scarf... judges in New York. And no one brings it as a problem because there is a system that has allowed people the right to that kind of freedom. My colleague Backović is well, so he noticed, this is about a broader context, faith is one thing, we know what faith means, /very hard to understand because it's moving away from the microphone/, faith, so on, these are different forms... beliefs. And other beliefs are those that people choose for themselves and consider them important for their lives, partly or entirely organize in accordance with..., so people who are not...... in that sense the right to freedom of their representation. And, therefore, here's a little bit more to comment on. I thank Lazar, if there's any chance that we can do this without further ado, here I am right behind it, let's shape today in a way that anyone who wants to do this, do that kind of mandate and start doing that, okay? But don't just disable, as I would say, the possibility, because if we don't assign the Council of Ministers and the competent institutions to this right now, what I'm talking about, I've got this for myself and got it from some people who are dealing with this, I can get this to everyone as much information as possible, and if that...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11310	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11311	The Council of Ministers does. So, I answered, here's Nikola. And the whole concept of this is, on the one hand, to enable this kind of complete freedom, so just to build a society in which we will affirm, uh, freedom in every sense, of course, by respecting the Constitution and, uh, all of our laws that Denis was talking about, and I support the proposal... told fellow Bojić that this would also be the first step to opening up the possibility of redesigning our work. So, I think that we as Parliament should open up more, that we should..., that we should be, as I say, more serious and go into step with what are modern possibilities, and not that, in some way, we keep ourselves nailed, you know, there was something 10 years ago, we established, and so it has to stay until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11312	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11313	Well, I don't know if we're talking about the same agenda point. I feel like we're talking about two different points. Namely, the agenda point proposed by counterpart Senad Šepić, 46 initiatives, which he explained in this document, or the paper we later received, does not speak of any formation of an informal group of parliamentarians. It even very seriously, the way he suggested, indicates it will not be informal, but highly formal. This is where the Council of Ministers enters, this Parliament makes a decision, on the modes of work, not to say that we will also have a question of compensation, etc., when to work, method of work, and I don't know what everything. In the meantime, maybe someone won't think of it, I'm not saying it fell to the promoter, but someone in that... So I was talking about a working group like that, and I thought we didn't need a working group like that. If we are talking about an informal task force that we parliamentarians of both homes together with the parliaments of entities, cantons, etc. will do with the goal of bringing individual cases down to the lowest possible extent, and there are individual cases of endangerment, that is quite different. Then we define today that this point is going to be so and that we will have a debate about it at the next session, that whoever proposes to prepare it will be prepared to look like this task force, who will do it, to what number of parliamentarians, from which parliamentarians, and it has my support immediately. So I have a feeling we're talking about different things. And you keep talking here about informal...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11314	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11315	I'm sorry, but the promoter didn't say it was informal. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11316	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11317	The correction of the wrong quote is what counterpart Šepić said a little while ago. So, the very fact, Mr. Šepić, that you have in a very inconclusive and imprecise way put forward your initiative has just led to all these discussions and to a different view of what you are looking for in this initiative, so you have so misread what I said. And what I said in the discussion, therefore, was two things – the question of what do you want with this initiative. Do you, on the one hand, consider that there is a violation of human rights in a domain that you define in that initiative or, on the other hand, you don't mean that, but you want the existing situation to be further updated and repaired. That's one question. The second question – do you want a formal or informal group to make it. And so, what I said, so you didn't quote me correctly, you didn't get it right, if Bosnia and Herzegovina had a violation of human rights in that domain then she had a serious problem and then it would be expected that you were looking for the formation of that group for that reason. Of course, when we talk about the very establishment of this group if it is informal, I agree with my colleague Bojić what he said, then Parliament should also, of course, set certain rules on how to set up, because I think this may be the first or one of the first initiatives to form a parliamentary group. If it is informal and there must be rules, and if it is formal then it has no support from the SNSD Club, that we fully understand each other. Because if you start a particular group, you need to know what's the point of what you're setting up. For example, in some European countries, the establishment of a parliamentary group, e.g. to advocate the legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes, parliamentarians who are doctors enter that group, they conduct discussions, debates and ultimately give certain initiatives to improve or pass a new law that will regulate the area. If they get most in their parliament it goes away, if they don't get free they're talking. So you need to know what the goal is and the purpose is, and if you want 47 that we just apologize, so there must be rules and don't interpret your colleagues as it suits you at the moment, but either listen well or accept the fact that in a very imprecise and inconclusive way you set up what you set up and that's why we have these discussions today.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11318	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11319	Not wanting to get into the depths, just looking at this as something really necessary from all aspects, but really all life aspects, I have to react to this for the mahram. By circumstances, I don't want to play by names, but when the time comes, I know judges and prosecutors who have tattooed crosses on their hands and shoulders. When it comes to the operationalization of this I will publicly publish them names and last names and they will have to take it off because it is forbidden to wear religious features. So these are strange things, because my mother is wearing it today not as a religious feature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11320	Senad Šepić, non-compliance with the established agenda. But please stick to the business provisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11321	Let me just have one minute, so don't get the wrong picture out of here. I immediately said in the introduction, that this is, therefore, an open group, reporting anyone who will, there is no fee whatsoever, and don't make any dilemma that this could produce such connotations. But please, this is what's called a newer, better, healthier, which I believe will be good for all of us. And I want us all to understand here in Parliament. So, as counterpart Novaković said, the formulation, whether it will be a group, a parliamentary group, open, formal, informal, now we are all wandering, because that is, we do not have in our, what is called, the Rules of Procedure the best settled. But the initiative I didn't purposely...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11322	You stick to your colleague's order of business.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11323	If, then, I wanted to write it to the end precisely, I would have written it so accurately today, and then maybe the debate would have gone the other way. I purposely wanted to say in principle today that we are ready to accept the initiative and then, after that, to all be in charge of gathering as much information as possible so that after that, we can specifically, as it is called, state and what its mandate is, how it will work, how it will act, how it will report to us, etc. So please, I think it's all contained in that conclusion. If we adopt the conclusion behind that, we'll have a lot more information.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11324	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11325	Although I appreciate the work and efforts of respected counterpart Šepić and his efforts to improve the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is at the source of information and that it monitors what is current in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that, of course, I respond using my business law. I really think that this initiative is kind of premature, or insufficient, even though I gave my voice and supported the Joint Commission on Human Rights, wanting to open this issue in this way. Because here is how much energy and time we have spent on this initiative which is defined and limited by the fact that it is defined as matters of faith and religious freedom and the rest, I still think that fellow Šepić could have prepared it in a different way, first of all because he is very often absent from Bosnia and Herzegovina and those practices that are in other parliaments have many opportunities to get to know and see how it works in another more developed, more democratic world. I would, if I were to engage in this whole thing, really prepare it in one way to say what informal groups are in those parliaments, what they are offering, who can be activated, in which way, I, say, I don't have the upper hand for this, and I even think that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the very issue regulated. Wherever I turn in my life, there's a religious object. Wherever I turn in my life, my child doesn't have a green surface, but there's a prayer hall or I don't know what. I'm entering some institutions, the public sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning on my face, my dress doesn't say who I am and what I am, she's already moving and saying hello to me in some other inappropriate way, rarely who heals more and speaks a good day or something that used to be said, because I guess it connects with communism or I don't know what. So I, let's say I can't give my consent and support it just because this is just one informal group listed like this. I think that this question would waste our energy as a representative and a representative, to lead us to another path, perhaps to stray from the European path, we'd be having an extra fight somewhere, and someone would say he respects his rights more than someone else's. I even think that, just one approach, I would pull this, this initiative, work it out, and then count that, among other things, these informal groups can be for parents and children with special needs where we would give, activate ourselves by our own affinity, could be faith and religious freedom, could be sexual orientation and birth identity, why not. It can be anything that comes to one's mind by its own self, that, in accordance with all that Mr. Bojić mentioned about research that can help us with the legislative sector. So I'm not personally going to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11326	I'm closing the debate right now. Since this is the item of the agenda, meaning representative, we had the intervention of the respected Minister Semihe Borovac, she wanted to turn around and here we will finally give her the word that she speaks under this point. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11327	I thank the chairman. I welcome all honourable MPs. Indeed, the point of the agenda is something concerning this Parliament and it is Parliament's right to declare this item of the agenda. However, some findings concerning both the work and the Council of Ministers and the Ministry and the state's lack of attitude towards even religious communities were held in the debate. For the sake of knowledge alone, I cannot sit here and follow the session without responding to the finding that another office of 49 should be formed that would deal with religious issues, relations with the religious community next to the established Interreligious Council and with the established mixed committees monitoring the realisation of contracts signed by the state with the Holy See and with the Orthodox Church. Namely, the Mixed Commission of the Representatives of the Orthodox Church and representatives of the Council of Ministers is already very much working on some sub-legislative acts, which is working on documents derived from the treaty, the Mixed Commission with the Orthodox Church has already been in shape, and the Council of Ministers has proposed, and according to the Presidency, a basic contract with the Islamic Community, which we have no answer to yet, but we have the possibility, namely, that this Joint Commission for Relations with the Islamic Community is also being formed. So, from the point of view of the state and of monitoring the implementation and the contracts and the law, there are, therefore, mechanisms that work in that direction. I would also like to say that the Law prohibiting discrimination whose reporting on its implementation is in the power of the Ministry of Human Rights, that this was prepared by the Ministry to the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the conclusions of the joint session in Bijeljina, with the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly, prepared this Report and will be delivered to this Parliamentary Assembly. It is, therefore, the occurrences of discrimination established on the basis of and the application of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in that part of which the Ministry reports, and the part which remains the Ombudsman remains to be reported by this Parliament to the Ombudsman for human rights. So, we will carry out all those obligations that we have made and through the Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers for the Implementation of Obligations from the Conference in Bijeljina, which this Parliament, through the Joint Commission, has given to executive bodies, specifically the highest of human rights and refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11328	Thank you, Minister. Moving to point eight ____________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Please. _________(?) Wrong quote, signing in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11333	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11334	Is the breach of the Rules of Procedure under this point?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11335	The Honorable Chairman. Article 76. – The Chairman of the House gives his word to the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after he has asked for it. So you violated article 76. Rules of Procedure. It has not been recorded in this Parliament's work so far that MPs have no right to comment on certain matters within one point, following the presentation of the prime minister, minister or anyone. You did it. We from the SDP Club will use exclusively this Rules of Procedure and we will do nothing contrary to this Rules of Procedure, but if you think that this is how you deny the rights given to this Rules of Procedure, let me immediately tell you that it will not pass. Now on behalf of the SDP Club, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because of your conduct, I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11336	I'm taking a 30-minute break at the SDP Club's request. And as for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I said, You interrupted me, I concluded the debate and moved on to a new agenda point and we are at a new agenda point and on this issue I am giving debate(?) half an hour, break. 51 Please honorable MPs and MPs after half an hour's break we're still giving a half hour's break. So now at this point you have a break an hour. So at 2:20, we start the session. Resume operation, point 8. Debate, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11338	Thank you very much. Here, there are a few requests and some, as it is called, colleagues to keep us as short as possible. I have detected one of the areas in this report on BiH, the European Commission's progress report. We could have noticed that in a few things we had a step back. One of these things is freedom of speech and the state of media freedom. That's why I'm here to take a step forward in the next period, to prepare for this 2016 report to be better, to act now and say we prepare information on freedom of speech and the state of media freedom in BiH, with a special emphasis on attacks on journalists. And given that we also had this on the Joint Commission on Human Rights yesterday, it supported the Commission and adopted this conclusion which should be in charge of the institutions to deliver all this information to us. As soon as I could, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11339	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11340	I thank the chairman. So, from the point of view of the initiative and the contents of this initiative, which was delivered by counterpart Šepić, I have no objection. However, on this initiative, I need to open several important issues now. This is primarily a matter of relations between the legislative authority and the executive authority, relations between the concrete House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers. That stuff obviously doesn't work. That this is so, that they really don't work and this initiative is another one in a series of evidence that talks about it. Namely, what's this about? If the BiH Council of Ministers respected Parliament and implemented Parliament's conclusions, we would certainly not have certain points on the agenda today as such. Unfortunately, this situation is not the case. What's this about? Less than a year ago, here it is, I suggested a point that bears the same name as my colleague Šepić, who is proposing today. And that's when we adopted two conclusions. The second conclusion reads on January 15, 2015, so for a year, I quote – The House of Representatives tasked the Council of Ministers to submit, within 30 days at the latest, full information on the phenomena of pressure and intimidation of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it's been 13 times 30 days, and we still haven't gotten that kind of information. And what position are we in now? Within a year, then, twice the same point, the same suggestion, which is a bit of an unmarked precedent. 52 With that in mind, I have no dilemma, therefore, yes, this is what fellow Šepić said and suggested that we at the SDP Club support it. But we definitely need to think that, and I am now calling on the College of the House of Representatives, not to ask for this on the agenda of some of the next sessions, to provide us with one piece of information on the adopted conclusions and initiatives here in the House of Representatives, which should have been implemented by the Council of Ministers and to get an overview of what is realised and what is not. I think it will help with all the other reasons, and that is why we should return, in some way, the dignity of this Parliament. I don't know what anyone thinks about it at this point, but I would like to say that it is very important that what we adopt here at Parliament that we here in Parliament insist that it be indeed implemented by the Council of Ministers, because this position we currently have is simply not an appropriate position for our constitutional powers, as a legislative authority. The question arises, and I will finish by the time we get to the same topic within a year, or we will forget about it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11341	Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11342	Since this is an inexhaustible topic that I apologize for calling Denise again. And so it's going to go cyclically and it keeps repeating itself. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Sadik, I've known him for a long time, here's practically 20 years, right after the war I met him, so, yeah, but I really did. And this is an inexhaustible subject, and it would be able to elaborate on this in a number of ways, and it all depends on what angle we look at it from. But if there's freedom of the media and there's pressure, there's no pressure, there's pressure, etc., we'd have to first ask ourselves what it is, what, how does freedom of the media come about? It's the political establishment that puts the most pressure on the media, and then you have what's called the so-called media. Half-tronic media, I say this directly, don't laugh at anything, because you won't tell me that the sky that's blue, someone describes it as black, someone who's gray, and someone says it's blue. So then the situation turns around and then the one who said it was blue, says the sky is black, the one who spoke gray says blue is, and the one who spoke blue, says it's gray now. These examples can be cited here as much as you want. But we don't have a reaction from the state institutions to what's going on. That's our problem. Because we are the ones who should create, both in the legal framework and in the code of conduct of those who deal, we call it politics, because in us people as soon as they enter something called and approximately political waters, they run for the municipal level, he says - I'm a politician. And it becomes his profession. And then he's given to Bogo that he can appreciate the quality of the work of someone who's called a journalist, and the quality of the media, and he's putting pressure on the media to do what he wants. And then we've got anti-substance, the addiction of journalists. We don't have independent journalism and that's why we... speak on this subject, I said we'll see you tomorrow. And they'll be quiet about talking as much as you want. ...as in your family, the one who feeds you is good enough to listen to him, or else he won't feed you. So our media is objectively the media that are on the infusion, and the journalists are actually on the infusion. And they take one bottle of IV every day and they have to do as 53 bosses say. Well, whether we want it or not. I went out like... and criticized. And those called in the media electronics, television, radio, and to print, and then the purpose of the public service down, they're very big addicts, and then we have because you depend on one attack and the other. Niko one can tell me that two entity televisions, called the Federal and Republika Srpska are not fat addicts, or fat on someone's addiction, or fat on someone's influence, because it's just amazing that what you're looking at with your eyes and seeing with your eyes, when you're listening to both the media and the other, it gets quite ten connotations, extremely different.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11344	Your Honor, I am currently having legitimate reactions from the parliamentary benches.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11345	Tell me, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11346	You must know that we are having a debate on whether this initiative will be included today. So when it is, when we discuss it, so please, I beg you anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11347	I'm saying this to conclude in finality, Madam Chairman, and I'm talking about how much time I've been given, and if I'm just saying I'm about to fit in, we don't need time, we could vote right now, so there's no discussion. So if I'm just going to say it dryly, yes, it should be classified, then here I am in favour, and I'm going to vote on it. It's very simple. But let me state the reasons and why I'm going to do it. Why am I going to be like the man who's been through this, ma'am, because you and I have been in benches with me when I was having a newspaper all over the place when I was against the Privatisation Act when I was against Family Law, and you and I were sitting in benches with MPs. Now you're the same media who yelled at me for being against the der privatization. Very interesting, very interesting. So I'm telling you this as a man who should have that understanding, because you've been experiencing these same things. I can even tell you which media has characterized you very badly. I have a strange memory. And I'll remind you of '98. A year. So remember '98. the years and large two sides about you in the Sarajevo Liberation. You can see I remember that. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He didn't approve, but just to say, I have a strange memory, a very strange memory. I suggest that this point be classified and go, and we try, because it's one of the conditions for us to European path, to edit the media space, not control, but edit. Not the influence and the regimeal media, but the media that will give the citizens of this country real, accurate, accurate information. We don't have any serious media today. It all came down to the boulevard press, the boulevard television, everything became a circus, or a reality show that we have and too. That's the way it is in the media. And you, Madam Minister, as you looked at me, and I'll remind you, no, no, I'll remind you, and I'll remind you of '99. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11349	Please, please, it's not an argument that you remind someone here personally. Here, we thank you at this point. Damir Arnaut called for a hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11350	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I agree first of all on what, with the conclusion of Mr. Bećirović who reminded us that more than a year ago, the House of Representatives adopted a minor identical conclusion that is proposed today, and Mr. Bećirović did not mention, it was done, that you suggested, that, if I remember correctly, for a reason, I think that the direct cause was the raid of the police in the Klix portal room, right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, and another attack. In any case, it has passed more, it was in December 2014, immediately after this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly was formed, and we have never received a report from the Council of Ministers which was requested by that conclusion. And in the meantime, the state of media freedom has gotten worse. 'Cause Klix got into it with short pipes, if I remember correctly, and the Day Avaz rooms were being hacked, but with long pipes. So, the state of media freedom is, and in both cases, there was a warrant. So even in Klix's case, there was a search warrant, it wasn't just an arbitrary police raid. Now I am going back to the conclusion here, that is, the Report of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and this is Mr. Bojić the second time today, and I am going to ask the competent services to do a stenogram of the Tonnes of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, since yesterday we agreed on a text that says – that the Council of Ministers is committed to, in collaboration with all relevant international organisations and based on reports from these international organisations, based on reports from these international organisations, because these reports are getting worse and worse. Therefore, not only does the Council of Ministers make up a report on the state of media freedoms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in co-operation with relevant international organisations they can organise a meeting with them and write their report. So I specifically insisted on the conclusion – and on the basis of reports from relevant international organisations. And now it's gone. And now I'm curious really what you're preparing your opinions for the House for? Because this isn't what we voted on yesterday. So, I never again, this is the second time today, I will never agree to the Joint Commission again until I see in writing what it will go to the House, because this is a key sentence. And so, I would ask Mr. Šepić, who was present and I suppose you remember that I insisted that they say – in collaboration with all international organisations and based on the reports of these organisations – a report on the state of media freedoms. Because I will believe the report on the state of media freedom only if it is based on reports from relevant international organisations, and those relevant international organisations, in all their reports in the last 12-13 months, make it very clear that the state of media freedom and freedom of speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina is getting worse and worse. And we submitted an application for EU membership yesterday. 55 So, I, here, would ask the Proposer, if he agrees, if I do not, then insist that, after part of the sentence that he says, in collaboration with all relevant international organisations, what we voted on the Commission yesterday, – and based on reports from these international organisations, etc., make up a full report on the state of media freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11352	Correction of the false allegation, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11353	Since I, too, thank the chairman, since I am a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights as well as my esteemed colleague Arnaut, we have not voted on what Mr Arnaut is talking about. We agreed unanimously with our confirmation, head, or verbal statement, that since there were various proposals from members and members of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, and Mr Senad Šepić's proposal was present all along, we agreed that the Secretary of the Joint Commission would form exactly this way as it was formed and we did not repeat it because there were different proposals. It was delivered to all of us to see how this conclusion was formed, so that we could react either by email or directly to Madam Secretary Emini Jahić. So there was absolutely no vote on that conclusion, nor was the conclusion formed to vote on it and everything from the stenogram can be read, of course. And what you're saying is that it's been voted, it's not voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11354	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11355	Dear fellow Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, are you saying that the decision was taken by the Commission? You say it was delivered to you for insight. Nothing was delivered to me for insight. Is something delivered to me for insight? Here's the secretary confirming that nothing has been delivered to me. You just said, are you saying that you made a decision after the Commission's session was over? Because in that case, we just have a problem. And you've now opened one very interesting question, now I'm curious how that decision was made? You say something was given to you. Was that given to you during the Commission's session? If you, here's a colleague of the Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil tells you that something was adopted that was given her insight, and confirms that it was not given to her during the session of the Commission. I draw the conclusion from that that was given to her after the Commission's session, which means that we have a conclusion here that has not been adopted at the Commission's official session at all. Because nothing was given to me. Looks like we've got some groupings that'll give us some insight. Here's the secretary confirming that I didn't get anything. Therefore, I do not know what you were doing after the Commission's session. But if you have adopted something, or if Mr Bojić has signed some conclusion that you have agreed after the session of the Commission, I am telling you that it is absolutely not a valid conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11356	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11357	You say we voted. Now I ask you what we voted on at that session of the Joint Committee on Human Rights? For your information, while you had the same moment as the Joint Commission decided to visit the Ministry of Civil Affairs, you had a meeting of your Club SBB, and you were not a member and, a full member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights were present at that meeting. We talked to the minister for an hour and a half, had a constructive conversation. At the session of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, we agreed that all of what members and members, as well as the Proposer Senad Šepić, will be said about this initiative by Mr Šepić and that we will submit one, based on the stenogram, one conclusion that will be delivered in such a form as it was delivered. So you're saying we voted, and I'm telling you we didn't vote. That's the whole point. And you now if you want to popularize all of this and hold onto words, I'm telling you that a group in the Joint Commission on Human Rights absolutely does not exist, and that all there is intensity for forming without you would be absolutely impossible to form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11358	Debate, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11359	Here's me to say a few words about this debate. In fact, I hope that we will not get into a situation where those people will come to us – that Bogd will deal with himself, and I do not think that we will come.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11360	And we're not far, are we?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11361	We're not going to get into that position. That's a good point. And I think that, quite correctly, in the end, if something in the conclusion didn't stand as you thought it was standing, it would be very easy to take a pen and say, change the conclusion in that part in which the word should be added here, we support and end the debate in... A completely correct debate on the Commission, a harmonised position, other obligation on me to prepare the content of the conclusions together with the Secretariat. I wasn't able to repeat everything I said at the session myself, so that the same moment would be a written conclusion. It's impossible to do that, I don't know if any of you parliamentarians can, but I can't, I admit I'm not able to remember every word anyone says at the same time. I can't. Many can. So, there's a stenogram, there's a record, there's a conclusion. And the conclusion is extremely correct. After all, we have a progress report that says we went one step back when it comes to freedom of the media. I'm not going to say anything about the media here today, and I have something to say about the media, because it's not here, today it's not the media, but on the agenda it's the agenda. I suggest that this point be placed after the debate is held, as suggested in the conclusion, not to go to the next session, because then we will have a thematic session about the situation in the media, when it comes to freedom of the media. And finally, the Joint Commission planned this issue in its Orientation Plan. This initiative by Šepic is welcome to only further, let me say, raise this question, that it may be 57 earlier than we planned. So these little shortages, I don't think they need them, they don't need to be too burdened. I think there's plenty of room for us to make this important issue through this conclusion. And it is very important to talk about the issue of the media, and I believe that there is quite enough content in this conclusion that everything that fellow MPs want to say can be said when this item of the agenda comes to Parliament, and I suggest that it does not go to the next session, but that it goes after a thematic session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, on the basis of reports prepared by the Council of Ministers, because I know that this part is already being prepared in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11362	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11363	I thank the chairman. So here you are, Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, so you've now confirmed that you haven't voted on it, and you're talking about some meeting you had at the Civil Service, you're honoring me for having a club session, I absolutely had a club session, I went to a club session, you went afterwards, some members of the, you didn't even have a quorum, so, to decide. So you're saying that the conclusion was made past the official session of the Commission. It's really devastating to me that it can be done like that. In any case, I would ask Mr. Šepić's proposal, this is a very good initiative and we support it, only if you can tell if you agree that according to what we said yesterday on the Commission, so – in collaboration with all relevant international organisations, to add – and based on the reports of these organisations, and the text to move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11364	Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11365	I asked Emina to deliver me a stenogram, so I'll read you how it stands in a sentence, so you can just figure it out on your own. He says, among other things, in the agenda point, Mr Senad Šepić speaks and says – but if you allow me to suggest that it may be modified a little bit, to be said in accordance with Articles 18 and 19. The European Charter of Human Rights, because the European Convention on Human Rights, therefore, is the first member identical to Article 19. Universal declarations, etc., etc. So I don't know who's able to draw a conclusion based on what's been said on the Commission. So, let me just say...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11366	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11367	It's past the point of course, just to tell you, therefore, that you're making too much of your colleague Arnaut. So it is unnecessary to complicate something that we have found extremely correctly on the Commission itself. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11368	Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11369	I'd really like to help. If you saw me as a promoter, I spoke for 25 seconds, because I thought we'd end this very quickly. Now let's not go into these procedures alone as it all happened, but it's totally acceptable to me. This conclusion is fine, so what fellow Arnaut is talking about, doesn't rule out one another, it just, as I would say, improves the text, or precises the text of this conclusion and says after this sentence – and based on the reports of those international organisations, and then it's quite correct and quite complete what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11370	Thank you. The debate, Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11371	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It is very interesting that he is this active in sending these proposals to the debate, but it is also very interesting that each of his proposals causes further confusion and further misunderstandings or the need for further clarification. Therefore, I would ask him, if the Commission can't already do this, for human rights, I would ask him, since most of these proposals go to the Human Rights Commission, to be clear and precise in the formulation of his proposal in the future, to avoid these unpleasant situations. Because you see something, please, as I understand this proposal. I realize this proposal is about two things, about the right to speak, so human freedoms, and that means my right to speak, and that it's about problems, as is said here, media rights, etc. So, I'd like us to even talk about human rights, about the right to speak, about the right to publicly express our opinion. But this House has long stopped being an institution that deals with these serious things. We're under pressure here, and no one's talking about these pressures here. They're carrying voting papers twice from here. We don't talk about it. I expect to start now and put pressure on us and ask how who discussed it. So the fundamental right to discuss and vote is compromised. Well, I guess I answer, I just answer to voters, if I'm not sure, according to certain laws, I've committed some certain violations. And I can't accept it just, the fact is that journalists are in a very ungrateful position and that their tasks they perform are neither easy nor naive, but rather very difficult and very responsible. But also all of us who have the right in this Bosnia and Herzegovina to speak publicly, so whether they were members of parliament or were speaking somewhere on the street, or in restaurants, cafes, walking around, we have the right to express our opinion without thinking whether or not our heads will hurt. I think we should have that report on these human rights and rights to be brought forward, and the rights to action, without being subject to investigative authorities or demands towards this institution. Yes, and that's included in the report, if you don't mind. But here right now, the Human Rights Commission is dealing with things that, I can't say, are insignificant, but in any case, these rights are only part of 59 of what we should be discussing. And I suggest that we really discuss endangered human rights seriously in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11372	Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11373	Well, I do have a real need. So, I was, I was saying it, and maybe I should have talked longer in just explaining this initiative. I just wanted to be proactive and we as Parliament to be proactive. ... here today we all signed, handed over the app, that's great, that's great, we're just gonna have to start doing something. The European Commission said last year, for 2015, you've done everything, you've made a bunch of things up ahead, you have a step backwards in media freedoms. And I'm just thinking about how we're going to say now, what we should do as a state to prepare ourselves when this report is being made for 2016, that we have some positive evaluation here, too. I don't think now that anything is particularly unclear what I'm actually trying to achieve. All international organisations, the European Commission, developed countries have an index that measures media freedom in countries. If we don't know how to make it, we take it and we see how the OSCE, the European Commission, etc. does it. And so here's just another brief comment from my colleague, Đonlagić. So I think Professor you understand me in that sense. This is what I was looking for, so, uh, and I'm trying to be, as I would say, to do something concrete. And when it comes to some particular explanation, here we explain and discuss at the session itself. I'm sorry if I'm misunderstood in some things, but it's no secret that many important people through history have been misunderstood in their time. So, but after a certain period, everything comes to its own time and it's important.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11374	Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11375	I thank the chairman. It is not a correction of the wrong allegation, it is the support of initiative and co-workers, Đonlagić, because here another initiative was born through this discussion about the initiative of colleagues Šepić. And for the record, you'll have our support. Form an initiative. Here, if you want, we can do it together. Let's see who was responsible here for what he said as an MP, who was all invited to the prosecution for something the Constitution guarantees him. I have 50,000 marks of slander charges for what I said here in Parliament. You remember that I launched an initiative to make the Ombudsman a special report on respect for the rights of workers in the company Boxit. And because I did that, I got a libel suit from the owner and the medium that passed it on, he got a libel suit, asking for 50,000. When I say here that Željka Cvijanović is not doing her job, it was about protecting the Consumers Act, she sues me, she looks for me, she says I've ruined her reputation and she's asking for 10,000 marks. So over 50,000 marks for what I said here. Of course, it'll all fall in court, but it's a kind of pressure not to talk, to cause fear. And I beg you indeed, it's a good initiative, formulate it, and you will have our full support.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11376	Debate, Mirsad Mešić. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11377	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I want to share some anxiety with you. I feel so stupid about this debate, where a large part of it, a large number of MPs' heads and heads, are totally discussing it. And that's where I'm gonna stop. What I'm trying to say is that this House has a big problem with the Council of Ministers for the simple reason that I have an impression, and no one has denied me, and that's what we started the story of the College in an extended composition, I don't know exactly what conclusion was realized in the times that were adopted here. For this reason, I propose a conclusion that says: – To be in charge of the College of the House of Representatives to carry out an analysis of the adopted and unrealised conclusions adopted at this House, and to make a report about this. This report should, of course, introduce us and certainly those who are the cause of this situation, the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11378	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11379	Thank you, Chairman. Well, in addition to all these discussions, it's clear that freedom of speech and media freedom is at stake. Compared to the previous report, that is, the proposal we were supposed to have, whether, these differences were, or improved when it comes to these media freedoms. We've heard that MPs have been called on several occasions to make statements when it comes to voting for Sutorina and voting, Miss, I think it leads to something else and that we're going in some direction that isn't really good. What's still worrying about me is the fact that breaking into news agencies, or media, is really unacceptable. This was condemned by even many foreign organisations present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is certainly not the way to do it. On this occasion, therefore, I would like to give full support to Mr. Đonlagić's proposal and, of course, Šepić. Here's how much for now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11380	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, no later than 120 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the PSBiH House of Representatives, develop and adopt the National Programme for Integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union and deliver it to the House of Representatives" 61 The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for European Integration responsible for considering this initiative. Representative Mirsad Mešić modified this initiative on behalf of the promoter, and it now reads - "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, at the latest within 150 days of the adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary House of BiH, develop and adopt the Programme for the Integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the EU, and deliver it to the House of Representatives."The committee delivered its opinion on the modified initiative on 15.02.2016. The commission accepted the initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Denis Bećriović, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11382	So, I thank the Joint Commission for the European integration of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which gave a positive opinion, and unanimously on this initiative. The initiative has been very clear and precisely formulated, with a clear task and deadlines, and it has been modified only in that the National Integration Programme has been expelled, so that the EU Integration Programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina remains and the deadline originally planned for 120 days has been extended by 30 days, so it remains 150 days. I think that Parliament plays a very important role in the process of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration, not only our Bosnian Herzegovina but all other parliaments, especially after the signing of the famous Lisbon Treaty. This important role we play in this process, so the role of Parliament, in my court, needs to be further affirmed in the coming period and we must insist that what we conclude and adopt, as Parliament, be truly implemented. I also remind my colleagues that the BiH Council of Ministers also adopted a similar conclusion in March 2008 during the Council of Ministers Chairman Nikola Špirić's adoption of a similar conclusion requiring a programme like this. In August 2010, a certain obligation was also given to the European Integration Directorate on this issue, but nothing has been done to this day. I expect that, and I hope that if this initiative is adopted today, especially in light of the surrender of this application, that this House's conclusion should indeed be realised on this issue, in order for us to make our modest contribution as Parliament, I am now talking, therefore, about the process of European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11383	Thank you very much. Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11384	Well, first of all, I want to say that I support the debate at this House on a similar document that would talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU integration programme, but this conclusion that we have received as a proposal from the Commission for European Integration does not lead in that direction. In fact, I think it is very difficult to put in charge, i.e. we can put in charge, but the Council of Ministers can hardly respect the fact that we task him to create and adopt a programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration into the EU. We know well, we have seen through the coordination mechanism, that this is a much 62 complex process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, compared to other countries in the region. That competences are at different levels in this process and that each level is in charge of a reform agenda for certain tasks. If that is the case, then simply the Council of Ministers cannot adopt Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU integration programme alone. He must do so together with the governments of entities and canton, in accordance with the powers that he has at his level. That's why I think this conclusion should be rephraseed, and only if it were to be re-formed would it be possible to discuss it at the next session, that is, after this initiative has received support here, so that the Council of Ministers can be in charge. And it is only possible to change it in the direction that the Council of Ministers draws up a programme, not to adopt, a programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration into the EU, along with other institutions that are each at its own level in charge of individual areas. I'm afraid if we put in charge of the Council of Ministers this way that we're going to put him in a very awkward situation because he won't be able to carry out our duties, and then the colleagues who suggested this will, of course, stand up here and criticise the Council of Ministers, because he doesn't execute the decisions of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11385	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11386	What was proposed is our obligation and the reason why the Commission for European Integration unanimously adopted this is because it is where people who have come into the matter and know that it is an obligation. Of course, of course, that, like everything else, we talked at this point about cybercrime, they have to respect the powers, because there is no other way to do that, but ultimately, it is the tasks and decisions of the Council of Ministers. Now, I understand mistrust, I understand completely. Here to stop myself from citing the recent examples of this, but ultimately whether we adopted this today or not, this is our mission and the final product of the Council of Ministers and the task is, here is the chairman of the Commission for European Integrations to subscribe on the SAA, so it is. And all of us sitting on the European Integration Commission have spoken in this way, and I think we have learned that we must respect one another, that we must respect jurisdiction, because I don't think it makes any sense to adopt this without being harmonised and that this document is for the sake of the document. Because this is a document that needs to be implemented, not a document that we have to show in Brussels like a coordination mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11387	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11388	Here, first of all, I want to say that our path to European integration, and I am deeply convinced of it, is not a question of position or opposition, for the simple reason that this process was launched 10 years ago, it will continue, it will change structure, different authorities will change, but that path is on behalf of all citizens and peoples of this country. I just want to explain with this parliamentary initiative, so there's a 150-day deadline, it's not a small deadline. If we need to extend that deadline, I am not running away from it either, but in the case of this document I just want to share the information with you that we are not moving from zero here, as they say, on this issue has already been done, the Directorate for 63 European Integrations of certain things, there are experiences from neighbouring Croatia, besides here and fellow Lovrinović spoke of it, there is no country that has become a member of the EU without having one of these... So that we have these elements in mind. As part of this initiative, it is not at all controversial, the text states that such a programme of integration must be done in the coordination of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore there is no dilemma. So here's what happens if there are dilemmas of that nature to remove them before the vote, so we know exactly what it's about and what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11389	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. You removed, now Senad Šepić, discussion, debate, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11390	So, very briefly, uh, and already said by fellow Saša, this is nothing new, this is actually that natural now sequence, that natural next step, so now that we've submitted an application to do a program of what we're going to do specifically in the next period and that we actually have one document that we're acting on and on which we take responsibility. And he said well, it's not, it's not going to be us doing it first, it's done it all and one country in the last 15 years as they joined the EU, all and one country had its own integration programme. So this is a positive accession practice and we, based on these positive experiences of countries that have done so before, should do the same. And I only support this modification of the conclusion in which we are going to say, because, in a fundamental sense, it will not be possible to make it possible not to involve the governments of entities, cantons and Brcko District, so that, in conclusion, it is: – That the Council of Ministers is in charge of co-operation with entity, cantonal governments and the Government of the Brcko District to prepare this integration programme in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11391	Thank you very much. Sadik Ahmetović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11392	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. Sometimes I get the feeling that there are no initiatives from a respected colleague, Denis Bećirović, that we wouldn't be able to do anything here, or the Council of Ministers, I don't know if it would be a session. So I think, therefore, that this initiative is very good and I think it is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I think the distinguished counterpart Bećirović has extra steps. I think it would be logical, that since only yesterday you sent this, submitted the application, to get answers to all the questions that are yet to be answered, all the questions that we get from Brussels need to be answered, and then I think that we can do better, better and more responsibly what our esteemed colleague Denis Bećirović is proposing. So I think that putting up with the initiative because of the initiative is unnecessary to anyone, I think we should wait for that moment, and I think that this is the moment when we have one picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina from those we want to join, and they will probably be best able to tell us. From that picture and all that we have ahead of us, we need to do what is defined by this initiative itself. I would be very happy that such an initiative came years ago when a respected colleague sat at the front of this Parliament, when we received 64 every year negative reports on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress, and there was no such initiative from a respected counterpart, Bećirović. And now here we are, here's what we're going to learn from the esteemed Dr Bećirović, and I hope his, this mandate will take at least two more times, because otherwise I'm afraid we're going to be cashing in for EU accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11393	Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11394	Well, counterpart Sadik Ahmetović, as usual, was excited and upset without need, I mean a normal parliamentary debate. He should first be grateful to the SDP because it seems there is no SDP proposal he would otherwise not know how to discuss things. Okay, but you need to be correct, we understand and his frustrations, he's twice frustrated in a political sense, the SDP has replaced him from the post of minister, the SDA from the post of vice president and these are mental pains. But let's move on to a more serious part of the one that fellow Šepić was talking about. So, you are absolutely right about what you were talking about after the adopted Coordination Mechanism that we talked about and which has now been published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" it is now understood in accordance with the structure of this document that when, is this document coming to be consulted by all those levels provided for in the Coordination Mechanism? So we explain this thing that there's no dilemma. And I am pleased, once again, that people who understand themselves in the problem of European integration, and above all by the Commission for European Integration, that they gave their positive opinion on it and we from the opposition intend to make our own constructive contribution, and in no way develop some contentious mentality here and bring it down to some personal animosities as some want. They can keep going that way, but they won't have a talker on that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11395	Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11396	I am not, dear counterpart Bećirović, frustrated at all, and I am glad that I did not sit with, the one in that Council of Ministers which has made negative progress towards the EU from year to year. This is where I said it's better for the SDA to stay as long as possible, because you're going to spoil less. And unfortunately here it turns out it's true. And you will probably in a few days, perhaps for the longest month, it would be good for a respected colleague,... he is not in years that he does not have to go out often in the field, uh, it would be good if he stayed in the O.R. to listen to me, but he will probably see in the coming days, hear where he was and who was in society when a decision was made to replace ministers from the SDA, and that society is not from Bosnia and Herzegovina and that both Denis Bećirović and the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be very surprised when he finds out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11397	Thank you. 65 Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11398	So if I look at the stenogram, we'll see that this is nothing new. When we discussed this report, this, the European Commission for 2015, we had the same conclusion. So, just there in the title instead of, uh, the integration program, we had the state integration program, so some colleagues from Republika Srpska objected to me, they said it wasn't there – the state integration programme, and here we would support it. So that's what we've already had. But why did I answer today just to, uh, what did I want to comment on? So, I don't agree with colleague Sadik Ahmetović, I'm talking to you, listen to me, so we don't need to wait, be careful that we have to wait for someone from above to tell us that there's something wrong, so if we start working then, I don't think that's, that's the kind of approach we've had in Bosnia and Herzegovina, more or less, so we're here where we are. I think we should be proactive, we've been talking about the EU for a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11399	He's supposed to be back at the base, isn't he?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11400	Well, it should come back, right, not just at the base, so, uh, I think we've waited too long in that sense. If there had been more selective access, we could have already, say, had 90% of the full questionnaire. Less or less, it will be the same questionnaire as the countries that, as Croatia had, in 90% of the cases would be about the same issues. If we had been proactive and we'd gone one step ahead, we could have been much more ready now. So, therefore, this is also, in some way, a link to my previous initiative, so that we are already preparing for the European Commission's position on the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be better in the 2016 report. It was my intensity, and I believe that's how we should keep doing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11401	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11402	What counterpart Šepić said we won't have to wait, uh, to get answers to all these questions, but we will have to wait for the coordination mechanism to work. The decision adopted has clearly defined the College for European Integration as the most political body. These issues, therefore European integration issues will have to be implemented through the College of European Integration, or it is not possible for the Council of Ministers to adopt the programme, which will eventually adopt one day, cannot be done in this way. I have not disputed anything but the possibility of the Council of Ministers adopting it in the light of all these responsibilities and that he will only adopt it when the College prepares it, or what is possible at this stage. It is possible that he prepares the programme that will go to the College and will adopt, amend, amend, modify, and so on. Let me explain a little bit, given that a colleague interpreted it as if, what I said, as if there were now a position, opposition in the process of European integration. Of course there's no position or opposition, it's the interest of everyone and not just now, that process, as far as I can see, will last much longer than we think it will last, and a lot of it will change both the opposition and the 66 position and we'll all probably be in positions and opposition, but the processes will flow, sometimes past us, or by the way, uh, the speeds we'd rather give him.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11403	Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11404	Just for a little while, so to get out of this situation, really, the Committee has decided as it has decided, and we have no intention, therefore, of any good initiative in the Committee, I hope that I share my opinion and other colleagues, to stop. So, if the way out of this situation is just to delete from the title – adopt, so let's just say – create a programme of integration between Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so we go, so we have agreement and a promoter and get out of this situation. So, to make it, and we'll see what, here's what I don't know about a colleague of Novaković...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11405	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Consideration of Monika Tomić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, within 90 days of the adoption of this initiative in the PSBiH House of Representatives, provide an analysis of education reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to the reform of secondary education and the possibility of introducing compulsory secondary education." The House College has appointed a constitutional committee responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 15.02.2016 and adopted the initiative, and forwarded it to the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. Monika Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11407	Thank you. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all after such a difficult day. I don't think this topic, this initiative, should represent anything special, but I have to admit that I feel somewhere I need to say some of the reasons why I decided to do this. And that is, I think we all know that we should raise the literacy of our population, thus providing better conditions for employment and continuing education. If you would reduce the number of participants, students who do not have their own profession 67
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11408	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11409	I think it would decrease, what we talked about at the last session, and juvenile delinquency because such students would stay in that educational process longer. Furthermore, this reform should be in line with the needs of modern society. And what's also very important is that by insuring this high school education a large number of teachers, which we all know are unemployed, at least I have many in my environment, so that these young people get jobs, means they get a chance to live their lives. So dear colleagues, here I am asking you to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11410	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11411	It's more of a support, ma'am, than a debate. Because in the overall reform that has been done in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the educational programme, from primary to higher education, a number of catastrophic mistakes have been made that result in the withdrawal of this society down some major cliff, or a steep drop, because only intellectual upgrade, the quality of persons, can give this country the incentive to move forward. Of course, I haven't studied in this system, so I can just... talk about experiences with people who have been educated in this system and this way, and the total amount of knowledge especially from what they're being educated for. And I can say it's a disaster, I'm speaking from the aspect of the profession that I'm in. When it comes to secondary education, I would like you to go here with basic education for the simple reason that it is the foundation of a person of primary and secondary education, the foundation of every man, but not the basis of which, in the way that it is done today. And I will support your initiative, ma'am, and I hope that there will be intelligence in the country in which I live and which is mine, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the general anarchy in the way of education will stop and that we are training, that is, the people who will make this country out of this half-moon, we are now in the middle of the dark, so we came at half-dark, so I'm afraid we're not going to go to full darkness, maybe like that 6 months of night in the Scandinavian countries, but they've made it light for them all the time. And I'm afraid we're going to the dark, believe me, toward the thick darkness. I will support this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11412	Thank you very much. Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11413	Very brief chairman. Let me start by saying, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Club, that we will support this initiative, we find it extremely important, although the distinguished colleague 68 has put an emphasis on the reform of secondary education, it does not in any way mean that she will just be focused on the subject, so it will be very interesting for us to discuss both primary and higher education. The subject of compulsory high school education is something that has been talked about in professional circles for a long time, so there are different opinions, and I think this will help to maybe shed some attitude. This is a particularly important topic because on the issue of education and where different levels of government have different powers to see and perhaps in practice what the Coordination Mechanism looks like. And this is an example of what is a very important tool on our European pathway. And I have no doubt that all of us in Parliament, so here are the members of the club from which the distinguished colleague Tomić comes, we will make our contribution, because here is an education expert, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11414	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11415	In short, I want to fully support this Parliament's initiative of honourable Members. It has full meaning and meaning, and I think that if we realize it to the end that we're not even aware of how important this really can be for all the people in this country. Just over 65 years ago, then, the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the first time passed laws that prescribed that basic education is mandatory in then-Yugoslavia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was without a doubt a major important decision that left enormous positive consequences. I am convinced that if this initiative comes to life, and we make sure that both these and other useful initiatives are translated and realised specifically, that it will have enormous importance in the coming period for all people in this country, especially for young generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11416	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11417	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I really congratulate my colleagues on this initiative and I want to point out once again, for who knows which time, Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of all the weaknesses that exist in it, and even in the way of organising the education system, has a completely devastated education system. And I want to warn again, and every time I have a chance, I will warn, that Bosnia and Herzegovina can't go on like this anymore. In this regard, I expect this information to be the basis for everything we are going to do in education reform, but also in higher education. But here, I'm happy to start having this kind of information, is from these primary and secondary schools every year getting worse and worse and worse, and of course this fit or students are future students with an incomparably lower level of knowledge than is necessary for higher education. And then the level of knowledge they acquire at higher education institutions collapses. And thanks again to my colleague for this initiative. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11418	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Information from the Central Election Commission of BiH on testing opportunities (pilot project) of advanced technologies in the 2016 Local Elections election process – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut On 12.02.2016, MP Damir Arnaut sent the College a proposal to supplement the agenda of the 25th session of the House. At the 26th session held on 15.02.2016, the College of the House of Representatives in an extended assembly at the 24th session, held on 15.02.2016, agreed to supplement the agenda with this point. You've got the materials. I'm opening a debate. Damir Arnaut, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11420	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, it is very simple, first of all, I thank the College and the College in the extended composition for deciding to include this item in the agenda of this session of the House, since it is really important to approach this issue as soon as possible, because it is something that should, if possible, be implemented in local elections that will be recorded and held this year, so it is clear now that there will be no delay of any local elections, so it is that the proposed conclusion proposed by Dom today as part of the item, this item of the agenda and which simply obliges the Central Election Commission of BiH to provide within 30 days information on the possibilities of using a pilot project in representative and statisticalally relevant number of polling stations, with the aim of testing different advanced technologies in the election process, simplified technology concerning electronic voting in the local elections this year, and in the framework of budgets. So, without any extra budget allocations, the Central Election Commission will inform us whether it is possible to carry out this test, and that the Central Election Commission will inform us whether such testing is possible to do in accordance with existing legislation or whether any amendments and additions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law are needed. We all know how much SBB is, and I, personally, how much we have potentiated this issue of electronic voting and we are extremely grateful to the Central Election Commission for organising a truly educational and useful, useful and instructive demonstration of various electronic technologies in the electoral process here in the Grand Hall of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH last week. Different companies, as I understand the representatives of the CEC, without any cost at all, have organised a presentation of different electronic voting systems from the use of EPM technology to other electronic voting methods. The practice in the world is increasingly that from the voting system as we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the introduction of the elections, so paper and pencils, the electoral board and boxes, are increasingly moving to different forms of electronic 70 vote. There have been as many discussions in Bosnia and Herzegovina as there have been, there have been different arguments against the introduction of such technology and some that have been most loudly involved, for example. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are informationally inexperienced. Absolutely does not stand an absolutely incorrect claim, at the end of the 600 million citizens of India have voted exclusively by electronic means for decades, 600 million. Over 150 million Brazilian citizens have voted exclusively by electronic means for decades. To be clear, this is absolutely not about the Internet vote, but about the electronic vote, the person comes to the polling post and votes with different methods and these votes are immediately collected in one place. Second, the second argument was that it was expensive. However, it is often forgotten that over 50% of the budgets each election year, so over 4.5 million marks every two years as far as we have elections, are spent on fees, only on fees to members of the election boards. And members of election committees, i.e. election committees as such, have been identified by the Central Election Commission and a series of relevant organisations as the weakest link. This data also shows us that the most expensive link is in the election process. In any case, also practice in the world in all countries that have an electronic vote, the practice was always to first do testing of different technologies at representative and statistically relevant number of polling stations in order to then be able to access the selection of the most suitable technology for the given country, including, of course, its price, its adjustment to local conditions, the speed of collecting results, etc. I am now going back to that, so if I support this conclusion House of Representatives neither introduces a pilot project nor introduces an electronic vote, I would simply ask everyone to focus on simply asking the Central Election Commission for information on whether it is possible, within the framework of the existing budget and existing legislation, to organise a pilot project in the 2016 local elections, or to test different methods of electronic voting, therefore the House of Representatives can take further steps. But I don't think any of us are an expert in election technologies, and it's best to first ask the Central Election Commission, where people work, who are experts on these issues, to deliver them to us, and then the House of Representatives, in accordance with their respective competences, will act further, depending on what is contained in that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11421	Thank you very much. Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11422	First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Arnaut as well as my colleagues Šepić, Mrs Tomić, a fellow member of Bećirović, without whom this session, apart from the Records and ratification, would have two points of the agenda. So thank you for having the contents of this session. And I think all the initiatives were quite useful and that from the debate on them would be some result. As far as this initiative is concerned, I think it's pretentious to expect it to be even a pilot project for this election. Because when you give those 30 days to make, so whether or not they'll deal with Parliament's session, they'll come into a teat if there's even financial resources, technical possibilities, that's where the election is to be called. But I think this is a good initiative, and I wouldn't force it so much with the date and this local election, but I think we should support it and see in this financial and technological sense whether we're close to something like this maybe being held together. 71 E now has the other side of the story, and it's called trust. Probably if this story is updated, there will be those who will not find it difficult to make a mini poll of what people think and whether they have confidence in such a way of voting. As far as I'm concerned, I'd either trust or have the same mistrust as the polling stations where the whole ballot box disappears, and then they're left somewhere in the meadows, it's in the media, but nothing happens in the end. I'll tell you something that's not comparable, but it can serve as an example. You know that in the SDP, the party's president is elected in a way that all members go to the elections and vote, the CEC's practice has been fully taken over, and it looks the same as if we've gone to local or general elections from boxes, election lists, election committees, oversight, etc. There was one idea in the process of preparing to go to an electronic vote. It's even technologically provided to acquire, rent, buy, however you like, software that guarantees secrecy, so it's a renowned world firm that works its name won't let any irregularities happen. But yet people still have this mistrust in modern technologies. To conclude, I support this initiative, tomorrow I would be willing to support that both the Election Law and the way of voting in Bosnia and Herzegovina is changing in this direction, just drawing attention to a few elements that we should be aware of and talk about and simply assess. We don't need any electoral process that will start and end with mistrust. So, this whole story is where you don't have to rush, you have to build, uh, that spray, ask people what they think about it, do they want it, and in the end if you go that way I don't think there's an obstacle to living this, not in 2016, safe, but in some next election cycle.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11423	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11424	If the SDP did not elect an electronic vote, then we certainly know that this is still a good method for Bosnia and Herzegovina. This one, but I am going back to what you said, so the proposal concludes that the CEC is asked for information which types of testing are possible in accordance with existing legislation, which would potentially require amendments and additions to the Electoral Law. What Mr Magazinović was talking about was true, all amendments and additions to the Electoral Law are necessary to complete 6 months before the call, or 6 months before the election is held, so until the election is called. So, if amendments to the electoral legislation are needed, it is very possible that we will not be able to do so in this cycle. However, according to unofficial information, which I have from some members of the CEC, existing legislation is quite enough to do a pilot project. Others are not sure and therefore are given to people as a commission, as a body, for 30 days to notify us whether the pilot is a project, or whether testing can be done in accordance with existing legislation or not. If they can tell us what is a representative and statisticalally relevant number of polling stations, if they also say that it can be done in accordance with the existing budget, then the House of Representatives can take further steps, for example, to task the CEC to carry out such a pilot project, it can decide not to do so in these local elections. So what I really want to do, not to be a dilemma today, is that we absolutely don't plead today, so the proposal for a conclusion doesn't ask anyone to make a statement about whether to organise a pilot project, whether to test advanced technologies or not. With this conclusion, we only ask the CEC for information on two things, whether it can be done in these elections in accordance with the current budget and whether amendments and additions to the Election Law are necessary or whether existing legal solutions are sufficient to do so. So that's all we're saying today according to this conclusion. Depending on the CEC’s response, 72 The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples may also take action either if they decide that other actions are not necessary or that other actions are not taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11425	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11426	I try to be constructive, try to say besides support what I think about it, and fellow Arnaut has a need to react. His reaction to what I was talking about is short and incomprehensible. And I'm gonna stop there, I don't think there's any need at this agenda point to, and on this initiative, which in itself isn't bad, to go that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11427	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11428	Madam Chairman, thank you. An answer for an esteemed colleague of Arnaut. So it's impossible in the current Electoral Law, one number... to apply other methods of the existing. And if new methods were to be introduced, the law would have to be defined. I also wanted to personally warn, so the House of Representatives, that the decision on this could be very specific, which could put into question some of the cases that were happening in other countries, let's just say that, I don't think that we should be so guided, but the German Constitutional Court has put aside the electronic voting method in Germany. So, just yes, this is a very sensitive question. And the second question, if in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have, let's say, an experiment that we're conducting on a particular issue, then if someone were to challenge this method compared to others, let's say the local environment, it could be, to bring it into question, in terms of the legitimacy of the electoral process. So this is a very sensitive question although it should... for all that would eliminate any abuse in the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11429	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11430	Thank you, Mr. Prodanović. That's exactly what we're talking about, to get information, comprehensive information from the CEC what this means. So today, I underline again, we don't decide to introduce it, we're just asking the CEC to let us know all the relevant details, and then, of course, on the basis of that information, we'll take or we won't take any further action. But I don't think we can start at all if we don't start with that information from people who are really the only professional and relevant in Bosnia and Herzegovina to give us that information. That is the whole and only goal of this initiative today. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11431	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And before we move on to the discussion of item 12, I suggest that this House be made known to the grouping of debates on items 12 to 14 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of agreements, protocols and contracts. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Of the 33 present – for 30, no objection, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 21 for, no objection, 1 abstention, RS 9 for, no objection, 2 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I would like to conclude that we have united the debate on points 12 at the conclusion of point 14. Ad. 12 to Ad. 14. Granting consent for ratification of agreements, protocols and contracts You've been given the authority's opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm opening a debate on these two points of the agenda on the 12th, 13, in conclusion with the 14th, actually. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We've exhausted the agenda with this. How much do you want to vote on, how much can we agree on? You can at least at the club level sort of agree that it is, here's 10 minutes can, it's not. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11439	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11440	Just a proposal for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11441	78 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-02-16-0.u11442	Well, yeah, we have the conclusion, but that's why I'm asking about the dilemma so we don't turn out to be. So, we have, that is, our proposal to vote on the proposal of MP Damir Arnaut's conclusion, whether or not I should read it. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Damir Arnaut. Of the 35 present – for 28, against nothing, abstention 7. The Federation of BiH 23 for, nothing against, no abstentions, RS 5 for, nothing against, 7 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the proposal of the conclusion of Agent Damir Arnaut. Now we move on to the vote on the proposal, so first of all we put it to say about points 13 and 14 in the package, or 12, or so, 12, 13 and 14. So we put on the vote to make a statement on the package in points 12, 13 and 14. Of the 35 present – for 35, no objection, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 12 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have united the plea by points 12, 13 and 14. And now we declare points 12, 13 and 14. - Giving consent to ratification. Please plead. Of the 35 present – for 35, against nothing, there are no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, no abstentions, RS 12 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have given consent to ratifying materials from point 12. I'm closing the 25th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session is planned for 17 March 2016. Thank you for your cooperation today's session. Session completed at 4:40 p.m.
