ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12268	I am opening the 28th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Before the start of the session, I would like to inform you that there has been a regular rotation in the College of Representatives' House and I would like to thank the current chairman of the House of Representatives, Mrs Borjana Krišto, for the successful conduct of the session in the previous period, and I hope that I will at least be partially successful in this business as she was. I believe that we will continue the correct and tolerated atmosphere in the House of Representatives and that we will have fruitful co-operation and fruitful work. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow our work and media representatives. The session also invited representatives of BiH's Attorney General, the Central Election Commission of BiH and the representatives of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the BiH Court's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda sent word that he was unable to attend the House session due to his official trip. BiH Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić sent word that he was unable to attend the House session due to his official trip. The absence was justified by MP Milica Marković, and MP Safet Demirović announced a delay. The apostle Nenad Lalić will not be in today's session, he has justified his absence. There are 38 MPs present at the session, anis present four. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. It was removed from the previous agenda: Point 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 18.03.2016. (second reading), in line with the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Add to the agenda: 2 Point 4. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Damir Bećirović to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1145/16, since 14.04.2016. Point 5. A request from Borjana Krišto for the discussion of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1- 1203/16, since 21/04.2016. Point 6. The request of MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No:01-02-1-1230/16, of 25.04.2016. The following are added: point 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives, Law No: 01- 02-1-872/16, since 17.03.2016, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House. Point 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs from SNSD and SDS, Law No: 01,02-02-1-27/15, from 11 January 2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House. Point 13. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs from SNSD and SDS clubs, Law No 01,02-02-1-28/15, of 11 January 2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House. By Decision of the College of the House of Representatives earlier points: 16. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives, Act No: 01- 02-1-872/16, of 17.03.2016. (first reading) and 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Members of the Interresor Working Group for the Making of Amendments to Election Law, MPs Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović, Law No: 01-02-1032/16, of 04.04.2016. (first reading) have been moved, and have become points 7 and 8 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. If there are no reports, there is, Dušanka Majkić, a letter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12270	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I need to comment on something that's related to these points 4 to 8, so, to the matter of the Election Law, where never before in parliamentary practice has the same law, at least three are the same, and we are all on the agenda. First, I want to ask – how is it possible that the College found it appropriate to consider it as an emergency procedure, since the law fails 3 urgently, it is understandable to me, but it is not, but complex, it is not easy to meet the conditions for emergency procedure. So I think this information clearly defines Article 106, because the laws don't meet the emergency procedures. Finally, it works irresponsiblely, on social networks, making a joke with this Parliament and saying it is amazing that such a amount of ignorance among MPs is that it cannot happen that the same law in different forms at the same session is being debated. And I'm really ashamed of it, because I don't remember in practice for the last decade that something like this has happened. Here, that's what's happening to us now. So this law does not meet the basic condition, it is urgent but does not meet the condition because of its complexity. Therefore, it is not simple as a prerequisite for it to be an emergency procedure, but it should meet, under Article 106, that if the House receives several drafts of the law which regulates the same questions the House College referred to in the procedure in accordance with Article 3, it therefore provides to the Council of Ministers who should give their views on it. And the one who first gets a position is, he's going into procedure and he's the first. And that you have six laws that regulate the same matter, so amazing. I could only ask the promoters, except the Interresor Working Group, all the other promoters, what they were waiting for the last day. Is this the responsibility of this Parliament that we show by having six stories on the same subject on the same day? Here, we have another addition, that's the sixth, Mr. Damir Arnaut, and we have today a story about... what it means to pass laws quickly, like the Law of Salaries and Refunds, which will cost us all now because of the consequences he brings with him, when we are careless and not entering into the essence of things when we propose laws. So, I don't think there's any reason for these to be laws of urgency and I think that the College in this section has made a mistake, no matter what he's in charge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12271	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12272	I thank the chairman. I've been named, the wrong quote has been made, and I think all the conditions have been met even though it's not a practice on the agenda, but it's not a practice to mention the nouns about something that doesn't concern the application for this point at all. So, you were talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salary and Compensation, whose proposal I am, and you mentioned that there was too fast procedure, and this is about abolishing, or limiting the amount of fee for commission work. The procedure, you know very well because it was on the Commission, whose member you are, for finance and budget, this one, and this one, the Commission has given the Council of Ministers three months to declare the proposal for a law. So, the law was in the process of 11 months in total, and for those 11 months instead of being quickly adopted, as I asked, for these 11 months, a number of fees were charged, including for membership in commissions for reviewing the work commissions. So it's absolutely a false allegation, this law has been in the process of 11 months, it's a great law, 3 million will be saved and, uh, all attempts to change it now, not at all, it's not about fixing the law, it's about huge and excessive appetites, and it's no wonder that these demands appear now, a couple of months after everyone felt they weren't getting those fees they'd gotten used to so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12273	Discussion, Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12274	Mr. Chairman, first of all, my congratulations on taking over the presidency. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of parliament, chaired by the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers. I'll take it for a while. Well, actually when a man looks at this agenda and the time in which we are simply,... colleague Majkić, we can't be surprised by the miracle that the approach, therefore, is only missing one proposal and that is, the reason is that there was probably a delay in the procedure because Srbin as a constituent people from Mostar delivered their vision of the Election Law. So, I ask the parliamentary majority do they have any joint proposal of the Electoral Law for the City of Mostar? So here today we have three proposals in three, so three proposals proposed by people on behalf of, so... the promoters are on behalf of the constituent peoples. I don't see any common visions here, no opportunity to come up with a unique solution. And my proposal in this sense is that this fourth law, which is late, too, that the College take a day, two, to try to extract from these four laws something that may be common or gain the support of this Parliament. This way today, I'm afraid, we all know that it's impossible to get to the majority of any proposal, and we know that we can at least try to postpone this by a day, two, to try to get to... can be a common solution or is this a game in front of the domestic and international public as for God's sake we are from the parliamentary majority trying to get to the Election Law for Mostar and Bog we pray that we don't get to that. So, I'm trying to suggest, if possible, that you find this business opportunity to find that election law on the city of Mostar together a College, here's let the College form a parliamentary commission and come up with a unique solution. Everything else today is a waste of a day at a wild debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12275	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12276	... I abuse this false allegation but I also want to ask the College how it is possible that the report on the work of the Council of Ministers remains as a item of the agenda, regardless of the fact that the Foreign Affairs Commission has not finished, adopted the Report, or has not completed the debate on the Foreign Ministry report and there is practically one material missing for the work of an important ministry. If that were the parliamentary majority, Mr Džaferović, I know it's yours, you'd like it to be adopted with one report, such behaviour is shown on the agenda. So everything has lost the criteria, you used to know that you hold to the dignity of this Parliament, you no longer hold to anything today.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12277	I warn you, this last sentence is not in line with good relations. Discussion, Diana Zelenika.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12278	Good afternoon, good greeting to all present. Here, on behalf of the Committee for Gender Equality, I will say that at the 10th session, held on 18.04 this year, the Committee also discussed the House of Representatives' opinion on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of BiH, Proposer: Representatives Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović. Our commission concluded that, apart from this in the parliamentary procedure and the proposal for a law on amendments to and supplementing the BiH Election Law, which the Commission established and directed to the parliamentary procedure still on 17.03. Since two proposals laying down the same matter, the College of the House, in accordance with Rule 106(7) of the Rules of Procedure, was to invite the proposings to agree on their proposals and one proposal for a further procedure. Since the BiH Council of Ministers has not delivered its opinion on these two amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law in accordance with Rule 106(6) of the Rules of Procedure, this does not have a business opportunity to include both proposals in the agenda of the 28th session of the House of Representatives, only the Commission's proposal, which was first delivered to the House, as prescribed by Rule 106 (8) of the Rules of Procedure. And for this reason, I will say, we propose not to include the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, Proposer: Representatives Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović until the procedure at the House under the Proposed Law of the Committee for Gender Equality has been completed, reiterating Rule 106 (8) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12279	Thank you. Debate, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12280	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and others present here at the House of Representatives. It is unquestionable that the Mostar issue should be resolved and it is unquestionable that, through amendments to the Election Law, the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly, gives a certain kind of solution, and no one is slowing it down. I think that the issue should definitely be treated and resolved in the interests of the people of Mostar, but it seems to me that in this way through the formulation of the agenda with three proposals, one of which is the HDZ, one of the SBBs and the SDAs, and they form a Federation-level government at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they do not have the same position on Mostar, and we are asking that we vote in the House of Representatives. Is the House of Representatives on the right track today to resolve Mostar's question? I'm not sure. There manifestivati again mistrust, different political views on a large political issue, on the one hand, and on the other...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12281	Please discuss the agenda, this is a discussion that can be related to one of the points.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12282	The 6th and second question is definitely the position of the co-ordination of the Mostar Association of Serbs who uniquely came out with a view, certain solutions and their vision of the election process in Mostar City. I think the Parliamentary Assembly is not on track unless we wait, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to prepare and propose the SNSD and SDS Members' Club in this regard. And I don't think we're going to come to any solution when it comes to Mostar if we don't fully treat the interests of all those who have shown the need to participate in election decisions in Mostar itself, or amendments to the Election Law. And I urge the motionaries to withdraw these agenda points. I propose to amend the agenda with the withdrawal of these three agenda points until the issue of the Srbin Maintenance Coordination and that of the SNSD and SDS MPs' Club has been addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12283	Thank you. We're out of press releases. I would like to remind you that this Parliament, meaning both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, has made a decision on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Law as an attempt to reach a compromise solution which would then be easily adopted in Parliament. Since the Interresor Working Group has come up with a specific proposal for amendments to the Election Act which obviously did not resolve all the open issues that should have been addressed by the Election Law, we have received initiatives from individual MPs or MPs in the form of amendments to the Election Law by emergency procedure, and these are the three laws that we have to put on the agenda in business. The draft law has come under the regular procedure of the Interresor Working Group which, once I adopt the agenda, we will tell you the way in which we believe we should treat this Law, and the law which, the draft law that came from the Gender Equality Commission has received a negative opinion on the Constitutional Legal Commission and we are discussing the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. And that leaves, and that's the conclusion of the College that the reason it doesn't belong, these two laws don't fall under point 106. In one discussion, we are discussing the Commission's opinion, in another we are discussing the law itself. This is a situation where we've been brought to a practical teat on amendments to the Electoral Law. On 4 May, the Election Commission is scheduled to announce the election, the local elections in October 2016, and that is why we have this situation now in front of Parliament. So we didn't get any suggestions that could be considered or that we could vote on here, except for appeals, opinions and demands that, I don't know, like withdraw proposals. But that's the thing that suggests it. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the College has put forward a draft agenda. Since there are no proposals to take down the agenda points or supplement new ones I declare, I find that for the 28th session...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12284	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12285	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12286	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12287	We didn't understand what you decided about point 22. A report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. This morning, the Foreign Affairs Commission met, the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission indicated, it is necessary, therefore, that we have opinions from the competent committees, including the Commission, whose member you and I are, the Foreign Affairs Commission. The opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission, in order for the public not to be misinformed, did not come because they did not work with resolution ministers, not the Commission. So I think it's quite justified that we withdraw this point today, that we have a complete opinion and then open it at the next session of this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12288	So, the College considered the situation that the Foreign Affairs Commission did not give its opinion on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because it was not the Minister or Deputy Minister present at the Commission's meeting at 9:00 this morning. The conclusion is that the mandatory opinion is the commission only in the case of the law, the adoption of the law, and not in the case of the report, as is at this point in the agenda. That's an explanation for that part of the agenda. So, I'm saying, correcting the wrong quote, Maja Gasal-Gasasl-Vražalica.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12289	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. As regards the Amendments and Supplements to the Law submitted by the Commission on Gender Equality, and referring to Article 106, which you have just called for, but not taking into account the position (8) which it says – when the opinion of the Constitutional Commission or the competent commission, which we have, we have the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, the College of the House shall include in the agenda the law first delivered to the House, that is, until the end of the procedure, all other proposals rest. Which means our proposal to amend and supplement the law should, as it is, be with the Commission's opinion, on the agenda today, and everyone else is in the standstill phase until the procedure is completed, or the procedure in the homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12290	Thank you. It is here that this bill has received a negative opinion from the Constitutional Legal Commission, unlike the Interresor Working Group, which has received a positive opinion. And we are, for the sake of negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, discussing the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission rather than the law in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Regulation. So, please, I'm saying, who's looking now? Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12291	Dear Chairman, so I would like to invite you to the College to respect these suggestions from the House of Representatives, that we, for future work, still stick to the established principle. This is an important point, it's the only Annual Report from the Council of Ministers that comes before Parliament, it's always been a practice to have committee opinions. In case we act this way today, we will introduce a new practice, which is that we do not need committee opinions. There is no need for us to devise the work of the committees of Parliament, I think we should keep it very important both to the Commission and Parliament, and, on the other hand, ask that the competent ministers and the Council of Ministers 8 fully respect the legislative body that has chosen them. Therefore, we will not lose anything in the next 10-15 days, but let us leave that opportunity to get a complete opinion from the Commission on foreign affairs. Otherwise, I repeat, we are introducing a new practice that has never been on the stage in Parliament before.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12292	Thank you. We've been considering this situation, and I've already told you why we've made this decision. Because it is not an obligation to be the opinion of the committee in the event of a report. And I must remind you that Article 184 (2) says – The House is considering the report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH within 30 days of its submission. Following the debate, the House may, by means of a resolution, express its political position on the report submitted. The situation with foreign affairs and with the Foreign Ministry can always be found in the regular procedure, even at the next session, even the initiator could be the Foreign Affairs Commission. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12293	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The chairman took this part of me where I wanted to say that within 30 days we have to discuss this report and that we simply, uh, don't have this space, which a colleague is talking about, that we're leaving it for the next session. And the other thing is when we talk about seriousness and those points, then I have to say that our Commission has come very seriously to this problem and scheduled a session at 9:00 a.m. on the day of the House of Representatives session. I think it also speaks of the seriousness of us dealing with this business and who, of course, we should have done this job in time, not nearly 15 minutes to discuss the Council of Ministers' work, or the Ministry of which we have really been here many times, sometimes with the right, whether the remarks or the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12294	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12295	So, here, the Honorable Chairman and You, and some MPs are calling for the Rules of Procedure. I'm just on the trail of that call to the Rules of Procedure I'd like to say that we've already broken the Rules of Procedure, because that 30-day deadline, which you're calling upon, has been missed. We're already on a trial extension and, I repeat, it doesn't mean anything if we're going to have that debate today or in 10 days, and it would be very good to have a commission opinion on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12296	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12297	So, counterpart Momčilo Novaković, the Commission did not even discuss the report, because there is no person, responsible person who can explain the mass of questions that MPs had that, members of the Commission had to ask the minister. So we could schedule in five to ten if there isn't, so it's not just that problem, the problem is that the minister has no way, there's no... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, we did, the minister said he couldn't come,... he wrote to us. So we can't go in, we can't see him here in the benches, let alone get him on the Commission. So don't say what doesn't stand, ask around just before you comment. And also, let me just say, what it's going to mean if we move this point to the next session, what we've already been through, we're going to miss the deadline, what if we've already given it to the commissions, so don't give our own working bodies away, I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12299	Deputy Chairman Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12300	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I understand the need for every MP and every political party to express their views on every issue, even on the agenda issue, I'm afraid that today is not a bit of an exaggeration with these things. Be assured that the College has taken care of each of the questions that you have raised today in your debate and that there is no other way of doing so in the agenda and that the Rules of Procedure are respected. I wouldn't go out here today for a pay phone if I said what I said wasn't the next thing. Look, we object that we just put something on the agenda that we were obliged to put on the agenda, it's about the Council of Ministers' report, because one commission has not presented its position and assessment on this report. And it is said that the Foreign Affairs Commission was meeting this morning at 8:30, and the session was scheduled ten days ago today at 10:00. Reports submitted to the Council of Ministers' committees on 06 April of this year, you have had the opportunity to put this report on the Commission's agenda many times before today, that you did not put in place and that you failed to give an opinion is not good, but does not interfere with this House's completion of its work and this House will not because one Commission is sitting in the morning at half-nine, but the Commission will plan a job and give the answers requested by the Rules of Procedure in time. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12301	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I tell the reasons why I am reporting, Mr Džaferović is just being sent to the SDA's meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I'm looking for the obvious on behalf of the club, the obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure's 30-minute break. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12303	It's a 30-minute break. Can we continue the session, since the break time is up, more than the break is given. Please, let's try to get back to the O.R. within the time limit provided for the break. Mr. Mešić, do you have a reason to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12305	Members of the SDP needed additional time to consult on the continuation of this session. We got them, we're continuing the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12306	Okay. We have a correction to the wrong quote, Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12307	I thank Mr. Chairman and welcome everyone present in the O.R. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the comment of colleagues, who unfortunately is not present here, colleagues of Novaković due to the meeting we held this morning, the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission. At the last foreign affairs session, we asked for a more detailed explanation when it comes to establishing a visa-free regime for diplomatic passports with Belarus. And we only got that explanation yesterday at four o'clock in the afternoon. So I want it to be determined that this, that this is one of the reasons, perhaps the main reason why the meeting was held this morning was not held in some previous day. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12308	Ambassador Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12309	I thank the chairman. Since the agenda is item 22. A report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, and we see that there are proposals from MPs and MPs to consider this point at an emergency session. I would suggest a compromise solution by respecting the fact that the report on the work of the blood work is a blood count for both the Council of Ministers and both the Houses of Parliamentary Assembly, and since we have had the practice of holding meetings of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with members and members of the Council of Ministers, my proposal would be to schedule this special joint session of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly with the presence of the Council of Ministers where we will try to constructively discuss the report on the work of the Council of Ministers in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12310	So according to the Rules of Procedure of the joint two homes are held once a year and now I understand your proposal, but this is mandatory, see this is a mandatory point. We were here discussing why he didn't, why didn't the response from the Foreign Affairs Commission come and while I'm here to comment. It is not true that at 9:00 a.m. this morning a session was scheduled for any reason that no paper came, but because it failed to gather the quorum on Monday, this is the case, please, it happened, but I told you, so it is not about the debate and the point of the agenda, but it is about the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and therefore it is not necessary or necessary the opinion of the Commission. So, College, I find that the 28th session of the House of Representatives has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 27th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1017/16, of 06.04.2016; 4. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Damir Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1145/16, since 14/04; 5. A request from Borjana Krišto to discuss Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1203/16, of 21.04.2016; 6. The request of MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1230/16, of 25.04.2016; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives, Law No: 01-02-1-872/16, dated 17/03/2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the PSBiH House; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Members of the Interresor Working Group for amending electoral legislation, MPs: Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović, Law No: 01-02-1032/16, from 04.04.2016 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-929/16, from 21/03/2016 (second reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-134/15, since 01.03.2016 (second reading); 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality, Law No: 01-02-1-79/16, of 05.01.2016 (first reading); 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs from SNSD and SDS, Law No: 01,02-02-1-27/15, of 11 January 2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the PSBiH House; 12 13. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MEPs from SNSD and SDS, Law No: 01,02-02-1-28/15, of 11 January 2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the PSBiH House; 14. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-340/16, from 01.03.2016 (first reading); 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Law No Maja, from Gasal-Vražalica (first reading); 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-610/16, from 18.03.2016 (first reading); 17. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in dual-use goods – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-748/16, of 04.03.2016 (first reading); 18. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-752/16, of 04.03.2016 (first reading); 19. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of public denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity – Proposer: MPs from the SDP Club Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović and Mirsad Mešić, Law No: 01-02-1-938/16, from 22.03.2016 (first reading); 20. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties – Proposer: Members of the Interresor Working Group for the Making Amendments of Election Legislatives, MPs: Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović, Act No: 01-02-1033/16, of 04.04.2016 (first reading); 21. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-124/15, of 10.12.2015; 22. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-19-850/16, since 16/03/2016; 23. Report on BiH's Attorney General's work for the period 01.01.2015. – 31.12.2015, number: 01,02-10-941/16, since 23.03.2016; 24. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 05/6-50-19-918/16, since 21.03.2016; 25. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both PSBiH homes to review the work of the Independent PSBiH Committee, issue: 01,02-50-19-10044/16, since 04.04.2016; 26. Information on the potential for testing (pilot-project) advanced technologies in the 2016 local elections in BiH – applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01-50-1-522/16, since 09.03.2016; 27. Information on the International Labour Organisation Recommendation No 204 on the transition from informal to formal economy, adopted at the 104th session of the IOR – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue 01-22-1642/15, since 29.12.2015; 28. The appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH in the order of others, a list of the Commission's candidates for the election and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, number: 01-34-1079/16, since 01.04.2016; 29. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both homes PSBiH for the implementation of the selection procedure of three members of the 13 Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-868-12,1/16, since 06.04.2016; 30. Consideration of Denis Bećirović and Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 17 March 2016, which reads: "The BiH Ministry of Security is in charge, that within 30 (30) days of the adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the information on the activities of organisations and groups that spread religious, national or any other hatred in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina is provided in Parliament's procedure.", number: 01-50-1-881/16; 31. A review of the parliamentary initiative of Nermine Kapetanović, submitted on 04.04.2016, which reads: "An initiative to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the adoption and adoption of a state strategy for the promotion of renewable energy", number: 01-50-1-031/16; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, No: 01,02-05-2-913/16, of 21.03.2016; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Project Corridor Vc 2) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-1100/16, as of 11 April 2016. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 27th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly You've got the record. Any objections? There isn't. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12313	I thank the chairman. The response I received from the Council of Ministers seems to have prepared a response from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and it concerns working starting lines in the territorial sea of BiH. I got an extremely unprofessional answer, I don't know why the Ministry of Civil Affairs has been preparing this, but I've been expecting to prepare the Ministry of Transport and Communications for that answer, but here I see that the minister is here, I really appeal to you to determine who's so unprofessional in... The Ministry. After all, I mean, I rarely potential this, I've written a lot of academic articles in the most reputed Western expert journals on the International Law of the Sea, it's my area and that they've provided me with such an unprofessional response and that, you can see absolutely from the answer that they haven't bothered at all and they're so incorrect, I'm going to ask an additional parliamentary question, uh, but find out who's doing this to you there, uh, but in any case, I think the wrong ministry was giving an answer at all. Now the second thing, I have already pointed out four times in this House that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on my question, which was very simple to come up with and asked for a simple answer and provided an answer that, namely, provided letters stating that they did not want to give me an answer, because they believe that the answer would not give me a real picture of the situation in the diplomatic network of BiH, i.e. on the foreign policy priorities of BiH, so they explicitly stated that they refused to give me an answer. I have been assured three times by my Kolega that it will be dealt with by the foreign minister, who is not present here that he is not a newspaper, but remains unsettled. I have already given up the break three times, but this time on behalf of the SBB Club, I am asking for a 30-minute break to explain to the Council of Ministers that they must not refuse to provide answers to parliamentary questions. I'm at least with this answer, let's say I'm not happy, what civilians have delivered, but what foreign affairs are doing to say that they don't want to deliver the answer and refuse your instructions now, I think it requires a break to explain to them that it can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12314	Well, Mr. Arnaut, I don't think you're going to cut into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with this pause, but you're going to, in a way, define the work of this Parliament. It turns out MPs are now victims of protests for not answering the foreign ministry. I'm taking a half-hour break. All right, please take your seats, let's get back to work. Before we move to the third point, we have a comment application from MP Nikola Lovrinović. Is Nikola in need of a comment? He gave up, he didn't, come on, Mr. Lovrinović right now, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12316	I welcome all those present, thank you, Mr. Chairman, I apologize. So, I got the answer I asked for, it seems to me it's from the Resolute Ministry of Trade.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12317	I'm sorry the point is over, we're done, so we've reached the 3rd point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12318	Well, that's the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12319	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12320	I hope that my colleagues also received this material, as I do when they set up, and they saw that, my intention was, therefore, to come up with some information, given the duties we have been acting on behalf of this Parliament when it comes to the SAA and European integration and you have seen from this material, so I have asked the question – What are BiH's milk, dairy products, meat production, meat processing, fruit and vegetables? And we got a response here from which you can see, therefore, that these capacities are not fully exploited, but also do not meet the needs of the domestic market. Namely, what was I going to say? I actually wanted first of all to get information about the story of traditional trade, or the adjustment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement when it comes to it? And now I've seen here, so there's just one big question – what are we really protecting? We see, therefore, that domestic producers of these kinds of necessary food products for Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot satisfy the domestic market with their production. So, we should, to make a little joke, wait to eat meat, for example, one supplier in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and only when it produces another, should those who need to wait for it to produce another. However, the problem arises that they do not have enough raw material, so to speak, cattle for slaughter because the chain of production of that kind is disabled because of expensive food. Now a vicious circle is closing, and I will most likely through the Committee on European Integration propose, given that we have had one round table in Bijeljina on this topic, it is very interesting and it is high time for Parliament to get full information on this situation, and also on the process of negotiating the adjustment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so I will suggest probably through the Commission that we have a special point in which the Council of Ministers will inform us of all the problems, trends in which this, this segment of life of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is currently in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is agricultural production and protection of domestic agricultural production. Because then, on that round table in Bijeljina, we heard a lot about what we couldn't hear about the benches or these answers provided by the Resort ministries or agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12321	This concludes the second item of the agenda. And before we move on to the next item of the agenda, I want to inform you of the following, so we suggest changing the procedure so far when it comes to the 16th matter of emergency proceedings. You know that the issue of urgency has already been raised in one of the previous sessions, and what is the debate on the essence and the College, then, at the 28th session of the College, discussed the proposal of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut, to which the House of Representatives would regulate the issue of voting on an emergency request in a way that the vote would be heard immediately after the debate was held. Members of the College unanimously decided that when a motion for an urgent procedure is accepted in the parliamentary procedure and included in the agenda of the House's session, they would put this proposal to the vote. The proposal for a conclusion shall be as follows: The vote on the request set out in Article 133(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH - an emergency procedure, i.e. the procedure prescribed by Article 133(4) of the Rules of Procedure, if such a request is not adopted, a shortened or regular procedure will be carried out immediately after the discussion of the request has been concluded, and if the request is adopted immediately a debate on the draft law is held, but the House on the draft law will vote in accordance with Article 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure. So the bottom line is, let me get this straight, so right after the emergency procedure is adopted, we open up a debate about the law, and the law is voted on by the emergency procedure when votes are voted on and on all other laws. I put this proposal to a vote. So, for 25, against no one, abstentioned 14. The entity majority exist, the conclusion is accepted. In addition, we have as the College a proposal and to change the procedure for the debate on the Proposal for an Interresor Working Group's Election Law. Since it is a regular procedure, and since it is necessary to shorten procedures because the local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be announced on 4 May, we suggest that the whole procedure be in line with a certain point, I will read you the conclusion and you will see it done at today's session. So, the College of the House of Representatives decided to propose a conclusion on point 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, Proposer: Members of the Interresor Working Group for the Making of Amendments to Election Law, MPs Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović, which reads: Voting on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, whose proposals are members of the Interresor Working Group for making changes to electoral legislation in the first reading, will be held immediately after the debate has been concluded in the first reading. Third, the House of Representatives, in accordance with Rule 112 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, shall consider the proposal in a second reading without considering it in the competent commission. So, they would argue in the first reading under this item of the agenda, accept amendments that possibly have MPs or clubs on the law, and then practically vote in the second reading on amendments and on the overall law. What we're proposing, because there's a meeting of the House of Peoples that if certain laws were passed here because of the urgency of the May 4th election, she could immediately take the procedure and put it on the agenda. I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. For 26, v. 2, abstention 11, There are general and entity majority, so the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. This conclusion applies to all points, this first conclusion applies to all points of urgency, and this second conclusion is only to the point concerning the proposal of the Interresor Working Group. Moving to point three, 17 Ad. 3. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider draft law supplementing the Law on Salary Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1017/16, of 06.04.2016. The proposal for a law was submitted in procedure 04.04.2016 with an urgent request for an examination, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. On 19 April 2016, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been found to be in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Since there are no reports, we are voting on an emergency request. For 20, against 10, with 19 abstentions, with 9 abstentions, I apologize. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority in the Federation of BiH. Therefore, an emergency request was rejected...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12323	We're not... we're going to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12324	Right now, so let's go round two on emergency procedures. For 19, against 12, abstention 8. There are both general and existing entity majority, so an emergency procedure request has been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Here you go, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12325	Therefore, this bill provides that the Law, which the Parliamentary Assembly adopted, on salaries and fees where we have determined that commission work cannot be paid during working hours and where we have limited the total fee to the basis, so 475 marks, is here on the proposal of the House of Peoples, and before that on the proposal of the delegate, Mrs Zovko, it is proposed that the Commission for the judicial examination be exempted from the application of this Act and the explanation is simply not convincing, especially not a convincing request for an emergency procedure, given that it is indeed a proposal that is much more complex than it was written in the explanation. Therefore, the argument is that the Commission is self-financed. What it means, that the explanation, is whether, among other things, it says that there will be no savings in the budget. Which is simply not true, because if you pay 2,000 marks to a member of the Commission and they have received such fees, in any case there have always been over a thousand, this one, and very often there have been about 2,000 if you pay 2,000 marks to a member of the Commission, and if you pay him 475 marks as we have predicted and how we have already applied 5 months then that remainder of some thousand and a half marks goes into the budget. So here it is very clear or goes to a member of the Commission or goes to the budget and savings are very clear. 18 The second thing, it also states, among other things, is that there are high-level experts to be respected, etc. and nowhere in the explanation provided, here I will wait for fellow Majkić and, uh, nowhere in the explanation is it stated that most of the members of the Commission, the Commission consists of 21 members, that most of the members of the Commission are actually civil servants, in some cases even elected and appointed officials. And it's said that 475 marks as long as we've limited that it's not enough. All right, look, this was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", and now I'm interested in why people who mostly on this list of 21 have 5,000 marks of salary and more from the state budget, why aren't there enough 475 marks for them to work in the Commission? After all, here is why Mr. Čolak, our colleague in the House of Peoples, is not enough, why two judges at the BiH Constitutional Court of BiH are not enough for Mr. Tadić and Mr. Ćeman to work in this Commission, etc., etc.? So, we have 21 members of the Commission here, the vast majority of people who receive salaries from the budget, why aren't they enough 475 marks and that huge salary from the budget, why aren't they enough 475 marks to how many we've limited them to? I could even appreciate the argument that this may need to be arranged in some way when people in the private sector are concerned, because, let's say, the private sector people won't and ultimately, it's their right whether or not they want to, uh, decide whether to work for 475 marks or not in this Commission, but it could only be done to the amendments to this bill, and here, an emergency procedure has already been adopted, so that this purpose cannot be achieved. However, here it is absolutely clear that, by exempting this, this Commission to pass a judicial exam in BiH would introduce a truly unnecessary precedent, that some commissions are worth more than some others, that some members are more professional than others, etc. And all those arguments just fall into the water. We had yesterday an argument from the RAC Council that they should also be excluded, that 475 marks are not enough for them, and there are mostly people who receive salaries from the state budget. So, we are now going to open up space to each other with our bill and then this is getting smaller and more and more, to reduce more and more the savings that we have achieved by adopting this original law, and I am remembering the savings are about 3,200,000 marks a year, on an annual level, so it's not a little bit that's an extremely large figure. And every time someone's gonna say he's more important, here's how it's gonna work after this, if this is adopted, there's someone who's gonna come and say they deserve more than 475 marks. But what, if adopted by this, is one elemental principle will be violated, and this is the greatest danger in all of this, and this elemental principle is that Parliament determines the releases from the budget. If Parliament has decided that 475 marks are the most likely to be paid to a member of a commission on a monthly basis, and if the need for a commission, committee, body, etc. is indeed shown. The exemption from the regime is then once again the Parliament that needs to say which is the maximum. If this proposal for a law is adopted, it will not be Parliament, but it will be either this Commission or the Council of Ministers, etc. Therefore, the members of this Commission will set their own limits. And again, I remind myself of this principle of Parliament's decision on the budget, Parliament decides on all budget fees, and why Parliament would now take away its right to establish the upper limit, even if it finds that some modification is necessary, in a given case, why Parliament should say simply – this does not apply to that and that commission and leave it to the Commission to decide which one will be the upper limit. And when it comes to human appetites, it seems that the upper limit sometimes does not exist. This review committee is indeed one of the best examples that the limit in appetites does not exist. And for this reason, I call on MPs to reject this bill, if there is indeed a need, and this should be determined by the Council of Ministers, to inform us whether there is a need in which categories to make exceptions, and that if exceptions are made, then Parliament should be the one who still determines the upper limit above which no one can go, nor the Council of 19 ministers, and in particular some commission cannot set that ceiling. After all, I reminded Mrs. Majkić this morning that we had adopted this Law for 11 months, that the Council of Ministers had twice asked the Council of Ministers for this initial bill, which limited these fees and which had been abolished during working hours and 4 months were totaled to the Council of Ministers to make comments. Therefore, there is absolutely no reasonable reason for this exception to be adopted by an emergency procedure, and in particular there is no reason to adopt an exception for only one institution. So, I call on MPs to reject this bill, and if there is a need for exceptions, the Ministry of Finance will make a report, explain the report, propose amendments and amendments to the law, and propose the highest limit in this proposal to Parliament, and then Parliament will set that ceiling. And not that, as was the case so far, and that's why we've had chaos in this area every commission and subcommittee has established its own upper limit, and there was absolutely no such measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12326	Thank you. I understand that you're suggesting a conclusion, or not, or is this a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12327	... I have suggested that this should not be adopted, and there is no point in adopting it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12328	Okay. So in consultation with the College members, on the basis of Article 27. Rules of Procedure, limiting the discussion to five minutes. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12329	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12330	I apologize, the correction of the guilty, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12331	First of all, good day to you all. Well, I'll regret to say that one part of my colleague Arnaut's exposure was at the border of our Ethics Code, mentioning several people by name and last name, and saying that they, that they have this kind of salary and that it's not enough for them, that they still need so many, so many, and they're not here, and I can't react to it, it wasn't correct. I'm not going to talk any further about what that violation of the Rules of Procedure was... I don't think it's correct. A few more words. This Law was passed, not entering its justification, not by entering whether this Committee and this Commission is doing its job as the Commission for passing a judicial exam for 10 minutes or three days in three different ways, is sufficient for that fee, shows what I have said several times at the Committee on Budget and Finance and in this Parliament that before the adoption of that famous pausal law, which makes it a lot of savings in one version of mathematics, though, this, should have carefully exorcised the effects of this Law, carefully expropriate whether there are exceptions and graduations within this Law, whether it can be better resolved, more systematically so that 20 of what we have now and what fellow Arnaut is going to do next, that there will be even more of such requests, more proposals of these laws, even amendments, and that it is evident in this system of work and commission work. And they're necessary, if they weren't necessary, we wouldn't have called them, we wouldn't have worked, they're especially necessary, and they're important in the segment of the judiciary, the judicial exams. So, yes, yes, it brings a certain chaos into the work of those bodies for this or for that reason, here's some commission that people think they can't fit that gauge of their knowledge and their physical effort to work on that commission in this amount, and the commission is, let me say, important to us. Therefore, when we were 11 months old, it was good and necessary to carefully analyse all aspects and all the effects of this Law in order not to have what we have now and then we would probably be what we have insisted on making a solution that will be systematic in terms of wages and fees, not only compensation to bring more systematic and quality solutions, but now we are where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12332	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12333	Thank you. Mr. Kožul is being directed. About your comment that I am announcing that there will be more of these bill proposals, absolutely incorrect. So I made it very clear that yesterday on the Constitutional Court there were points of the agenda that were announced to be. So that's not my announcement. When it comes to the Codex, I wanted to refrain from this, but since you opened the Codex question, then I will remind you of Article 12. The codex that says MPs and delegates will not vote on issues of personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12334	Next, Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12335	I thank the chairman. Now, I was wondering if we could ever change the Law on Salaries and Retributions and, let's say, cancel the pension severances, because some of them also took 70,000 marks of retirement severance, that so many respected colleagues, no, I'm not going to name names, but ask around in your party fellow Arnaut, I've said it all. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, fellow Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12337	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12338	A little. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12339	Please for...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12340	Please..., I agree with most of this, this was one good intention to reduce budget spending and in that good intention, we may not have done everything that was spoken of by distinguished colleagues Kožul, so today we came to a situation where some bodies that can't be subdued under administrative or supervisory committees, or under committees, are about some permanent working bodies that, fortunately or unfortunately, have advice in their name, where people really do not ad hoc from today until tomorrow, but work every day and people bring their resources into this budget, millions of times, let's say the RAC's advice is like that. And it is the regulators that must be independent and the legislator must not affect their financial independence. And we have, we all swear on our way to the EU, and in doing so, we have violated the EU's recommendations, the Council of Ministers' recommendation, the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, says -- that the authorities, specifically, refer to the RAC Council, that authorities should not use the powers they have in deciding on the financial issues of an independent regulator. I'm just going to remind you that these people in the RAC express fines of 300,000 marks, they don't decide once a week, they work every day and do very serious questions. And we're affecting their independence, so it would be just like if we were unhappy with some decisions, let's say, from the Prosecutor's Office or the Court of Justice of BiH and here we say we're going to have to cut salaries because they're raising charges or courts in a way that we don't like, that would be a terrible pressure, and that's one of the basic characteristics of not putting financial pressure on the judiciary. We must also not put financial pressure on independent regulators. And it's obvious that this needs to be reconsidered, not only is the RAC Council here, we all got one letter from the esteemed finance minister, Mr. Bevanda, there are some requirements that are still justified, there are some that are not justified, it's true that they're grammistical and I think it's necessary to review all these requirements, that it's necessary to even question the application of this article, whether there are perhaps some who won't apply it, whether we can influence those agencies that have independent sources of funding, so they're not being financed from the budget, but they're the ones that are full of the budget. And I will therefore draw one conclusion, which is: To do our Commission for Finance and Budget together in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance an analysis of the application of this Article 39, in particular, to pay particular attention to these allegations from the letter of the Honored Finance Minister and then to the Commission for Finance and Budget propose a system solution. And this is another indicator that we don't have to engage in ad hoc changes and supplement some laws, which can then bring us trouble, that it's better to wait for the Ministry of Finance to make us a systematic and thorough solution that won't hurt anyone's head afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12341	Thank you. Ambassador Dušanka Majkić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12342	About to stop, start where my colleague left off. So we see that the proposals for laws that come from MPs are often seen only in the short term but not in the long term what the law carries with it. It wasn't serious, I was trying to talk about it at the Finance Commission's session. It is tempting to pass a law that will be applauded by the public, but it is very difficult to pass a law that will stop the institutions from working. I would like to introduce you to the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has 62 bodies, so administrative, supervisory committees, committees, which each of them have their own meaning, say the Commission for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, should we say that this is irrelevant, the Commission for Compassionation, the Commission for Genetically Changed Organism, so I read without order. So the promoter didn't take care of it. The attractiveness of the idea of him to be the one to pass a law like this that will echo in public is more important than what consequences he may have. And what the IRS is telling us now, I beg your pardon, explain what you're trying to say. The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board shall have legal personality status in which, among other things, three experts in the area of indirect taxes work. Does that mean you think those experts will work for you for 475 marks? He won't. So it wasn't serious. The Council of Ministers and then said, the finance minister said it wasn't a good... And it is not the Commission for Finance and Budget that can do this, but I suggest that the conclusion be that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to draw up a detailed analysis of possible exemptions, possible exemptions from the application of Article 39. The bill of wages and fees. That means, if we don't do this system approach right after this Law, here's the RAC said his -- which is what you, where you tell us to determine we're an independent institution, here's what the Management Board of Direct Taxation says, so each of these institutions will now appear with a request to make an exception. I don't think that we can do that, that this law today should end its further path, and that the Council of Ministers should make an accurate analysis of whom it can apply as an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12343	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12344	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when we have legal solutions, any of them there are said to be financial repercussions to the application of the law. I have the feeling that we have become to this extent superficial that what we have systemically built in this country is slowly being broken down by which political parties it participates. That's why I've always been a supporter of making financial analysis, not to collapse the system. I didn't want to discuss it before because I would have been misunderstood because I was in office for seven, eight years, and I actually know that it would be best if such an analysis were made by the Ministry of Finance. And I don't think this country's gonna be any better than the populist statements about how someone's suggesting something and saving tens or hundreds of millions, and when you do a real analysis, then you see that it's either small savings or no savings. I am for minimum savings, but I am also for making the right decisions so as not to endanger the system. Dušanka listed some, a colleague of Pandurevićka said that an objective analysis should be made to see, not to make exceptions, but not to the application of the Law, so as not to endanger the system. This cannot be done by the Finance and Budget Commission, with full respect, do not give ourselves weight. So it is a matter of expertise and it should be returned to the Ministry of Finance to make an assessment and to come to Parliament to decide. And to keep this waiting, 23 won't fail if we wait to get that analysis in a month. I wanted to discuss it when we made that decision, but then the public was prepared to make the decisions that we made and I would be the only one, and they would say, "Look how hungry he is even though he doesn't apply to me. So, the indirect tax administration manages 7 billion marks a year. That is, therefore, the institution from which all levels of government are fed. And from Džoli Dikson, on top of that, they were experts who were the highest-paid experts, and with us MPs became doctors of general practice for everyone, from a small finger to a head, to a leg, and they all, and they don't need to ask anyone, to consult, the tip of the RAC, and, I don't know, many others who work daily, have working hours from 7 to, as all civil servants do. So, even when we were making decisions, we needed an analysis. We have made mistakes and I now propose that this analysis be made up of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and that we propose to Parliament and make good decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12345	Thank you. Correction of the wrong alleged Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, first of all, I'd like to remind my colleagues a little bit of us to go back a few months when we passed the Exclusion Act. ‘white bread’. So, that procedure had to go through this law that we're talking about now and my impression was, as I recall, and I believe I remember correctly, that the vast majority of this House and the House of Nations supported this Law. I would ask you not to speak individually now, not as candidates, or delegates, to whoever suggested it, or to the club that suggested it, but to all of us if you want to speak correctly about this issue. And, of course, the legitimacy and legality of everything that you're discussing and what you're proposing isn't questioned, but a little bit more correct, I think it'll do us good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12347	Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12348	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respect for all of your colleagues, present ministers, basically all present. During the period of adoption of this Law, if we remember a little bit, it is said that it will enter into analysis and that changes will take place and other laws directly related to this Law. It's not done until today. Don't forget exactly when it comes to "white bread" that today, if our mandate ends, we are on our own "white bread" for the next six months, we have no right to work. Will this Law be amended, whether rules will be passed, regulations that are our working status after our mandates in parliaments expire, because we don't all retire and we don't all get severances, there are those that will continue to work. It's one segment that hasn't been solved and that stays in the air and nobody mentions it, and that's what I was talking about somewhere. 24 Second segment, employees and if they do so in working time, point. I agree that I can't have employees and if they work during working hours, the ones that are binding on all of us, having privileges that are enormously high, and I agree that they were enormously high, and besides that you can see by the pay lists that have been published. That we all stand up for equality here, but that we're significantly unequal, important, even though we're doing it in a working time period, because if I have 38 years of active work experience through the past internship, etc., and someone has 17 and has 2,000 higher salaries than me from some point of view, from where he received the monthly income, it's just very interesting how he got them. And I agree that it has to be done to some, and 38 years in a high-experienced facility, I don't have any military training, not this one, but a working, effective job. When it comes to professional bodies, and one of the professional bodies is RAC, the other is the Directorate for indirect taxation, I can now list them, the third is the passing of a judicial exam, really should be those who, at the very least, are qualified to be the least university professors. Then it shouldn't be employees at all, because a judicial exam is the orientation of someone who's finished something called Law School according to a given profession. And don't forget that we're one of the few countries in the world, and this now applies to... malpractice, in which even a professional exam is conducted by engineers, it's not just a judicial one, a man who finishes a technical fax can't without a professional exam to be an authorised designer. This kind of exam Europe doesn't know about, doesn't know about it, but we're that relapse from the system we left behind. And then they made me a fool of not telling the truth until I officially got it, addressed it, imagined as a citizen of this country, Bundestag, addressed the French Parliament and addressed the Italian Parliament,.../the ambassador warned that his time had run out... I would ask for an explanation that... there is, and very precise. They're... their knowledge by getting a degree in the given level and for what they're trained for, they're authorized for it. Only the code for us is that people have to, and then that's why we have... these commissions, these bodies, I don't know what they don't anymore. Because what's called a judicial...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12349	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12350	I'll finish, it's a monopoly, a monopoly. How's the monopoly? Because those who are in those bodies actually have fear and trembling for those who would like to deal with, I don't know, a lawyer. Eh, you have to pass a judicial, legal one. What makes you think that if a man is a master and a doctor...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12351	Mr. Backović's time was up a minute ago. Thank you. Discussion, MP Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not an advocate for a passed legal solution, which we all agreed on at one of the previous sessions, so quickly changing. That way we'd admit, uh, if we hadn't really done the right analysis, if we had made a mistake and entered something that wasn't, well, here's the simplest way. But it seems to me here through discussions I realized that only after the adoption of this Law have some of us realized how many friends we have, neighbors on these boards of directors and supervisors, are we ready to work on certain... I think when we passed the Law, we didn't know it, and here, 25 of us seem, in this period that, after the Law was passed to this day, we've been contacted by many and today here we need to revise our position, to make some new legal solution and to make, after all, here's discrimination. If we wanted to make savings then let's stay principled, do it, let's not make certain changes that, here we didn't have in our heads when we created a legal solution like this. What's usually confusing me, here I may have just now realized, is that, despite being the exclusive representatives of higher education institutions, we have a problem. It is not clear to me here in the judicial system that, in a judicial examination, civil, family, economic, administrative, labour law in committees is not an interrogator from higher education institutions. In my opinion, they should be the ones who plead to get the title of a judicial exam, passed a judicial exam to be questioned by just the kind of people, those who are professional experts, and not that out of, here in public life we find some people who are walking with the same test and some experience may be able to gain the right to be members of these committees. So I would ask us all to let us, like all previous, previous legal solutions, live for a while. The law is designed in such a way, it is created by an interested group of people, let it in the public, it lives for a time and then a certain analysis is made, it is seen whether it is good or not, it is corrected and in such a way we get a better solution. Today, a month after the adoption of the Law that we have passed, I say, at one of the previous sessions without, meaning, some reasonable life of the Law, conditioned life of the Law, we are under pressure, I will responsibly say, those who are currently working in some commissions or intending to work on future committees that will appoint bodies to make a certain correction to build on this legal solution. I would ask all of us to remain consistent, that the Law that we have brought in one period of time to live, to make later certain analyses and see if it should be changed or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12353	Thank you. Ambassador Monika Tomić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12354	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. Here I am going to move a little bit to health care, so I'm going to say that, here I am, I... I've been participating in specialist and subspecialistic exams for years. We're paid for this year, I don't remember, maybe once or twice, not telling you what the number is. Therefore, I think that neither health care nor many other areas can be isolated from this and that we all need to find a systematic solution to these problems that we are discussing here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12355	Thank you. poslanik Hazim, I apologize, Damir Arnaut, for correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12356	Thank you. Well, there were a few, uh, so I'm gonna... look around. I think the most serious thing is that Mrs Pandurević misquoted the Council of Europe's recommendations, so the Committee of Ministers - authorities should not use the powers they have to decide on financial issues, and then you skipped what she says - for the sake of influence on the independence of regulatory authorities, for the sake of influence. Now that's, when you pass the law and just exempt the RAC, or just the prosecution, or just the Court, then the intention is clear, your intention is then to influence that regulatory authority if you do. When you limit everyone at the entire state level to a base-level fee, it can't be said that it was done to influence the regulatory body. So, the fee is limited to absolutely everyone in the entire state, at the whole state level, all that comes out of the budget of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a limited fee of 475 marks. So, I'd accept it, uh, if that recommendation had been broken if this had been restricted only to RAC or to, I don't know, uh, the prosecution, the court, as you said. Of course, it's all inadmissible when you do it for influence, and if it's for influence, you can tell from who it refers to. It's all about everything here. And secondly, I remind you that the Directorate for European Integration has given a positive opinion on this proposal for a law limiting these fees. So, the Directorate for European Integration, which is an obligation. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, yes, I wouldn't have gone into procedure if the European Integration Directorate hadn't delivered Opinion, I guarantee you that. According to the Rules of Procedure, members of the College know that the law wouldn't have entered the procedure if it hadn't delivered opinions on this law and it was okay to think. So it would be the one to point out that there was a problem. And finally, the speech about who the billman is, so who is proposing this law that is before us. The delegatkinja suggested, I mean, the case is now here, the House of People's bill, but let's go back to who's the Proposer of the Law, so there's a delect in the House of Peoples. If we're going to be principled then, uh, someone's been saying... MPs and delegates don't need to propose laws. I remind you that we are now voting on the proposal for the law of the delegate from the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12358	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, MP Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12359	Dear counterpart Arnaut, there are some agencies that are not financed from the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but are independent regulators, have independent incomes and they are not the only RAC, we have other such agencies, I think four, five, and they are full of their incomes and they are paying funds in Budget. And here it is, if you will, and the question of the value of someone's work. Someone who needs to fill our budget, so these are the people who fill this budget with their work and work every day, we tell them – that, you're sick of 400 marks. Why would these people work? The RAC has its own account, it is not funded from the vaults of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions as well as BHANSA, it is independent regulators who have independent incomes and an independent regulator who 27 have independent incomes that we must not affect its independence because it is he who has his budget to be available and he is the one, so you have a problem, people will not sit there for that money. And let's not talk about opening the door to corruption, that these are people who, here tomorrow, any TV punishment can say 300,000 marks without talking about being able to withdraw the work permits where someone is damaged by tens of millions of marks. And then will that man cancel out at the RAC Council, say, his director's decision to take a TV license because some boss came to him and told him – no matter what you're going to do there for 400 marks, here's 4,000, and it's done. I'm afraid this is how we open the door to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12360	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12361	My kolega Arnaut, the European Integration Directorate's position may be but it's mostly not an argument. Why? You know what the argument is? We were politely asked what the IRS sent and said – explain to me what, explain to us what you were thinking. Do you know what the consequence is? That the Management Board, which is chosen on the basis of an ad, ceases to work, and that means there is no division of income based on indirect taxes. And that means conconsequences we can't even imagine. So, you still don't think about it, you keep thinking about what's around you, and no moment to step away from it. This is, and then I was saying, we don't know what the consequences of this law can cause. So I ask you not to return us to marginal matters,...we are talking about what has real consequences, and the easiest way to explain it is on the example of the Administrative for indirect taxation. Because the man hasn't told them yet no more, you've been suspended the possibility of being paid over 475 marks. I'm waiting for what this Parliament will say. The next thing you know, the Parliament has made a decision that you do not exist. And that's what was caused by this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12362	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12363	Thank you very much. We have a law in front of us and we're having a debate about some other issues that basically have something to do with this, but they're not directly in this Law. So, we're simply discussing the RAC, discussing the Directorate for indirect taxation. We have before us a law that treats one Commission,... that Commission can be declared whether the law is acceptable or unacceptable, but not in the context of what colleagues are talking about right now. Because, look, it has nothing to do with each other. I can't agree that financial independence is by allowing someone who collects money because we legally gave them the opportunity to pick them up without determining their salary as much as they want. Because then it's pointless what we do, what we've passed the Law of Salaries, etc. So, we can't, either, by our amendments to the law, devising someone's work, as we've done, it's evident by this law. But here, I am asking you, the chairman, to direct the debate on the Committee for the Laying of the Judicial Exam, and to end the debate on this agenda point. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12364	Since there are no more reported, I thought the debate was already focused, but here is Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12365	I welcome all those present, and I want successful work, as I first report to this House. Wrong quote to Mrs. Pandurević. If you remember, uh, we suggested that commission work be out of business, and we brought it together, the Commission brought along a proposal with you on the amount of 475 marks. So that is something that has been accepted by the complete Commission and the proposal that you have also proposed. Thank you, there's just so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12366	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12367	I'm not running away from it at all, but obviously what we adopted, and that's, I said, a good idea. And I did vote and I voted for it, and most of it still needs to, but there are places, every... there are, you know, exceptions, where we have to make exceptions. We have to make exceptions because we're going to do more damage than good, that's the point. And if we saw it, we let something live and we see that the real problems we need to correct these shortcomings and problems. Well, no solution is ideal. We have to admit we've made a good solution, but we need to correct it further and make a correction so we don't suffer any further damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12368	Thank you. This concludes the third point. We're going to the fourth, Ad. 4. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Damir Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1145/16, of 14 April 2016 The proposal for a law was submitted in procedure 14.04.2016, with a request for an urgent examination, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. On 19 April 2016, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been found to be in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. I'm opening a debate on an emergency procedure request. There are no reports. 29 I request a vote on an emergency procedure request. So, in 30, against three, abstentions six. There are entity and general majority. An emergency procedure request has been adopted. We're going to discuss the bill. There's no record of a hearing. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. A request from Borjana Krišto to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1203/16, of 21 April 2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12371	There are no reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12372	I'd like to vote on an emergency procedure request. For 21, versus 7, abstentioned 11. There's a general and entity majority. An emergency procedure request has been passed. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Deputy Chairman Borjan Krišto, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12373	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, since I first appear at this session today, here I would like to congratulate you, and I will do so in a special way, here as your deputy colleague, i.e. as a representative through the work. I welcome, of course, all my colleagues and colleagues and everyone present at this session. Here, I will explain very briefly, in fact, the proposal of the Croatian National Assembly Club when it comes to amendments to the Election Law, and it concerns the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH. Namely, the Law you received, I won't be making, in fact, an introduction, we all know, we all told the story that we tried to look for, indeed, solutions to amendments to the electoral law, that is, the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision. Unfortunately we have failed to reach a certain consensus and of course our club has done everything to get into parliamentary procedure, here's the delivery of this proposal that you've all hopefully met. And first of all, I want to say about the proposal, this, the amendment to the law that it is constitutionally founded, that it has constitutional basis for its adoption, I will repeat the reasons once again. 30 They are presented in that this proposal is aligned with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court's decision disputed the provision of Article 19.2. and paragraph (1) and (3) and Article 19.4. (1) of the Electoral Law, where the different number of voters were actually elected by the same number of council members. And, of course, as part of that, you saw that the proposal that delivered our Club fully, in fact, implements the Constitutional Court Decision and, in fact, the amendments finally ensure that the City of Mostar is no longer called, to say, "a city case", and in this way removes any kind of discrimination among the citizens of Mostar. What I just want to mention here as provisions, you saw that this election of councilmen is done in a way and through five electoral units, which are formerly, so these are election areas that are defined in the Statute of the City of Mostar and that the selection of all 35 council members is carried out through, means one part through the electoral units, i.e. multi-member constituencies and the other part through the compensatory mandates. I hope, however familiar, to say, political views when it comes to solutions, given the proposals that we have here today in Parliament, I personally think that the proposal in relation to other proposals is, in some ways, the best way to determine, I would say, that equality of voice value. I don't want to say that and some of the other suggestions that we have here today in relation to the conversations we once had, that they didn't come close to it, but really, what we did, to say, is to fully implement it, that we don't in any way open discrimination against any people when it comes to the City of Mostar. As for the mayor's election, he remained in line with the Statute, or the Constitution of the Federation, so I won't, in this sense, because our proposal doesn't touch that, I won't refer to these provisions concerning the mayor's election, I may be able to do so under another proposal that defines it. And here, I'm going to do everything, and I'm going to invite you all to consider, here's some possibility, so in the end, unless there's some kind of support for today's proposal that we're looking for solutions to Mostar City, so that the elections in Mostar City are actually held as well as in all units of local self-government. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12374	Thank you. Diana Zelenika's emissary, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12375	Thank you. Since I've already called, and I've said hello, I kind of need as someone who comes from Mostar, someone who loves his city terribly, to ask that we still find a solution to make elections in Mostar City happen, that Mostar doesn't be a city case, that there's no more situation that I had more conditions in that city as a child than my child does now. In some ways, I have also appeared as a member of the HNS break, I have not made a fourth request in the emergency procedure, it may be a little different from this, because we are certainly in favour of the Mostar elections, with respect for the Constitutional Court decisions, we are in favour of a single city with three constituency units of the North, the Centre and the South, for direct selection of mayors and mayors, however my position, and the position of the party that I represent, that these proportions and minimum and maximum quotas should then be represented in every city, not only in Mostar City, and this primarily applies to Travnik. According to our proposal, the minimum quotas would be 3 Hrvat, 3 Bošnjak, 3 Srbin and one non-maximum quota, which would mean that there is no discrimination against any voter, and that the Council has 35 council members. 31 This is what I had to say, meaning that the party as a member of the CNS has a slightly different view of this situation and means seeing one proportion in the premises of all Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only Mostar, but also the city of Travnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12376	Thank you. Discussion, MP Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I congratulate you on taking over the presidency of the House of Representatives and I want success in the work, I hope that the next sessions will be better than this, that they will be more effective, but that is not up to you. Regarding the proposal, I regret to say honestly that the proposal, in our opinion, of the SNSD Club, is therefore in line with the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, Mrs Krišto is the only one of these three proposals that respect the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, but I regret that it has been adopted to consider this Law by an urgent procedure. Namely our goal would be, I say, to the SNSD of all others, when it comes to the representation of constitutive peoples to come into the situation so that representatives, let's say, of the Srbin from Mostar, would be on a unique list if we had a similar model that had previously been, therefore voting on two lists, that one electoral unit was the entire area of Mostar City and that the multi-member electoral units in the City of Mostar were in a position to win a direct mandate in the City Council, and now it is not possible to act, then the coordination of Srbin from Mostar, i.e. through a single list of all political parties, would be in a position to win a direct mandate in the City Council, or City Assembly of Mostar. In this sense, we cannot support this proposal by emergency procedure because we cannot, because we are not in a position to improve it in relation to how it is proposed, because I must say again that it is a proposal that is absolutely implementing the BiH Constitutional Court decision, respecting the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, we have had an earlier situation in the debate in this House, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, when it was, to complete the Club of Serbs in the Federal House of People, we were against solving the completeness defined in the Election Law, without creating an environment for changes to the Federation of BiH Constitution, or that the Constitution of the Federation of BiH would be clearly defined in which way the club is filled if it is not completed in the election process. So we will be principled, so here there is an absolute constitutional basis, but the principles of this Law in the emergency procedure do not allow us to fulfill the interests and real commitment, representation and representatives of the constituent peoples in the City Assembly of Mostar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12378	Thank you. Discussion, MP Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12379	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, your deputies, all your distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 32 We have informal information as messengers that most have arranged for all the laws which are in the procedure to be supported in and that they may go into an emergency procedure and bring them all down today. And since we obviously also see by the vote that this is today's scene, it's one of the reasons why no one has reported to the previous law, or even its proposings, because it's pointless to talk about any of these laws if it's those who have the power of the hand in their hands that has agreed that all the laws will be brought down today. Now, it would be good, Mrs. Krišto, this doesn't apply to you, I accidentally answered the agenda point where you are, the question is, it's not focused on you, but it would be good if those who have agreed to bring down as Parliament all the laws and that there is no solution for Mostar today, say what the sequel is, what happens next? Is it a session until 4 when elections will be called, is it an election scheduled without a choice in Mostar City, then another solution? Because obviously if he's got a deal, let's take it all down, then he's got a deal on what we do after that. Is that some solution under the table agreed by the two strongest parties in Mostar City, is it? There are rumors that such a variant exists. It would be good if, here, as we showed at the first point, as I see at this point, there was no great enthusiasm to discuss the law itself, that maybe we were talking about what happens when you get all of this right now in the process. The law proposed by the SDP and the DF Interresor Working Group was not even discussed by the Interresor Working Group, that this is said to be well accepted, it is not well accepted, this is not good for you, but it is therefore not even considered and it illustrates the relationship against this issue overall. So, I don't have any questions, I don't want to say one word about any of these laws that we already know are going down today, I just have a question – What have you decided to do later as Parliament?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12380	Thank you. As a member of the congregation's majority, I don't know about the agreement that all the laws are down, maybe there's an estimate of a variety, that's what I agree, but that deal doesn't exist. Damir Bećirović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12381	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue not as, in some ways where my colleague Magazinović has stopped, I am sorry that the largest parties of the Federation positions are playing with the citizens of this country, primarily the SDA and HDZ. I'm sorry you didn't come up with the solution you already have, I can tell you what you're going to agree on, I can even tell you the names of the mayor and the mayor of Mostar, who you're going to propose. I know what the problems are, what Saša said, it's true, there won't be a single proposal today, but you have a backup proposal that you've agreed on in 99% of the cases. You have agreed to the part that is said to be elected from the central zone by one member, you disagree with the part, the HDZ disagrees with part that seven candidates go to the mayor's election, the mayor, but you also agreed to that. It also disagrees with the SDA with this part that 17 goes maximum from the order of the constituent peoples. You mentioned, Mrs. Krišto, that this is a city case, that you and the SDA and HDZ have made a city case, you've made Mostar a paradigm for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you've been doing all the time trying to spend solutions that don't go according to what the citizens of Mostar want. The complete election process and the complete election in Mostar are related to other issues, what the presidents of the SDA and HDZ agreed on, means to elect a member of the Presidency and a new organisation, say the House of the People of the State Parliament, and there are certain things that are almost agreed on, but also for the sake of the citizens, for the sake of our work here, sit down in Parliament, be brave and come to the citizens with the solutions you have made. I am sorry that the SDA is also trying this way to fix 33 polls for local elections where it is seen that their leverage of Dragan Čović leads to their ratings dropping and is now trying to create an artificial conflict on the Mostar issue. Instead of all sitting down and solving Mostar's question the right way to play with us here, you're also playing with the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12382	Correction of the false allegations, MP Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12383	I have to say, I'm a little caught up in all of this, which was said by my esteemed colleague Bećirović, that there is some SDA agreement here, HDZ about the division of Mostar, about, uh, pardoning the Election Law for Mostar. I think Mostar is a question of all of us, we don't know about this agreement, maybe there is, but be assured, and here if it gives you some security and comfort that we will, here we are for now, we and SNSD seem to be unique for the first time in this term and we represent the attitudes of the Srbin Coordination. So, we don't know about the deal, but make sure we protect some of our own attitudes and that the deal isn't possible without us here. So don't have those fears, I invite you and I really don't think it has anything to do with the SDA, HDZ, that the deal, that I heard Mr. Oručević say one day -- the deal about Mostar needs to be reached by those who live there, or it should be a bridge solution. And I invite you to join as a civil option, as a party that has quite certainly great reputation and credibility in Mostar, although you are opposition, and to look for a common solution that will really be in the interest of the people who live there, because they suffer the most because here for 10 years or how many years there is no choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12384	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12385	I thank the Honorable Chairman. There is no SBB mentioned here, but SBB is an absolutely inevitable link when it comes to a solution for Mostar and I can certainly tell you that, and I definitely haven't heard about this deal, and you would hear because SBB has actively participated with the SDA for the last ten days to reach a solution to Mostar. The only thing that is true is that we have never been closer to a solution for Mostar, whether we achieve it today or not, is another question, but never closer, especially during the rule of the SDP and the DF we were no closer to the solution for Mostar, especially during the election will of a nation was violated. And that's why the SBB here is a key link, and if such an agreement existed between the SDA and HDZ, and here's a confirmation of what Mrs. Pandurević said, but also the SBB wouldn't support some division of the city you're talking about, etc. Now, I'm just not thinking, you've accused the SDA here, I mean, the U.S.A. you've accused of seizing the will of Dragan Čović, how come you in the DF so much obsession with a man, I really don't understand it, I don't know if there's ever a show in which some member of yours doesn't mention Dragan Čović. And then question Mostar, question Mostar's choice of presidency member. It seems that you are afraid that no solution can be reached in this election cycle for selecting a member of the presidency. And you know why you're scared? Because Mr Komšić said very directly, openly on several occasions – ako Čović fails to change the Constitution I will go out to him on the occasion of 2018. So there's obviously fear in you that the Constitution doesn't get rid of itself. And when Mostar's a bird, I'm telling you, 34 you've had a chance for so many years, you haven't taken advantage of the opportunity, you haven't been close, you've been poisoned by Bosniak-Croatian relations during the ruling of the SDP and this predicate in the DF, and the predecessor I don't know any more SDP, DF, maybe tomorrow you'll be one party, I don't think I can reach out to be honest. But in any case, relations have been poisoned and I guarantee you they are much better now, we have never been closer to a solution, and where we are now, we are extremely close to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of BiH, and that's all you can expect, and you can't expect any division at least when it comes to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12386	Thank you. Ambassador Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and congratulations on taking over this, you'll see, thankless functions, but what you'll do is how it is. Mr. Arnaut, I don't mind if you're Dragan Covic's lawyer, it's your choice and it's your right, I don't even have anything against Dragan Čović, what I'm afraid of, Mr. Arnaut, is that what's not over in the war is not over, that's all I'm afraid of. So if we're going to round it up through election units now, I'm asking you why the war? Why didn't you agree to that in '92?? How many thousands of dead heads wouldn't have been on the list today. So that's what I'm afraid of. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Arnaut, I've been in the presidency for eight years, it doesn't impote to me anymore, I know it all, which impotes you, it's another pair of freaks. So, I have nothing against Dragan Čović, I don't mind you lawyering for him, it's absolutely your right, but now you want to convince me that every division in this country is actually a deal. Mr. Arnat, I can't agree to that, whatever you say, your party for whom you're going to lawyer, what you're going to do, who you're going to be in the coalition with is less important. But I raise my hand to divide any species in this country you will never experience and it has nothing to do with the members of the Presidency, who will be, what will be with it, it has nothing to do with what this country will be like. And you're faxing SDP and DF some stories about Mostar, please, so you know first that's not true. For Mostar, you know about Mostar City and who dictates the situation down there. We're serious people, I'm just asking you, if the agreement is to fail these three proposals today, what's the alternative, what's the alternative? And you all know that the package discusses Mostar and selecting members of the Presidency, i.e. amending the Election Law and that it is about classical trade. So let's be serious when we talk about some things. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12388	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Borjan Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12389	My quote refers to the correction of the wrong allegation, i.e. Mr Komšić's exposure. Mr. Komšić to Dr. Dragan Čović, as a member of the presidency and the president of the HDZ BiH does not need a lawyer, you have just shown it to yours, and we all know it well, if he needs a lawyer, there are enough of us here today and we will represent him. Thank you very much. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12390	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12391	It's just that I counted here to be honest, the one that bothered Mr. Komšić three times the war mentioned, I think I really thought we'd rise above those stories, uh, and absolutely unnecessary wars here a number of times in the discussion 20 years after the end of the war to mention. As for the fact that you were in the presidency for 8 years, I know and know all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we know the same thing where it got us, I haven't seen much of it. Um, but I was just quoting you, you say that it doesn't implore you anymore, so I don't know what your motive is, you said on several occasions, that if Dragan Čović fails, you mentioned him, failed to change the Constitution You will re-emerge him on the moon. So, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12392	I just need to draw your attention that we went into discussion from the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12393	Wrong quote, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12394	So this story about Dragan Čović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12395	Mr. Bosić, look at the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12396	I know, you didn't open the story, I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12397	I'm correcting the wrong quote. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I can fix everything he said wrong, and that means his whole discussion, so at least let me do two minutes, too. This one, however, when it comes to division, is now again the most guilty quote from your discussion. Where do you see the division in this SDA and SBB proposal? And I'm particularly proud of it, that you accidentally charge me that I'm a lawyer of the SDA, especially proud of the role of the SBB because right now the SBB initiative, the SBB interventions and what we've installed in this joint proposal absolutely for all time has been disabled by the division of Mostar, no one will ever seriously suggest the division of Mostar again after the SDA together has accepted our proposal and stood against the division of Mostar, so. So, no more division of Mostar, Mr. Komšić, and no more war, and at least don't now that war comes up again mention questions related to the war period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12398	Thank you. Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12399	Just one old folk, when it comes to pride, usually she's worth it. What's smart about being ashamed of being a fool is proud of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12400	Discussion, MP Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12401	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. Forgive me for maybe taking a moment to get off the subject. There are many serious issues in this country and there are many neural points in this country and I am afraid that this Parliament or that the institutions of government in this country are unable to give an adequate answer to either one. One of the neural dots is Mostar himself. As we speak of a country unique and divided and Mostar lives with the life of a single divided city. The way we have groups today that propose laws is building a single city or trying to divide cities? Srbin have their proposal, Hrvat have their proposal, Bošnjak have their proposal. So it's a very neural point from the perspective of this country's future. The second neural point is the economic situation in a country we also have no answer to. The third is, a neural point, in Republika Srpska, a relationship between the government and the opposition at different levels. The fourth is a possible occurrence of terrorism that won't bypass us. Fifth announcement of a refugee crisis. If we also have an answer to one of these serious questions on which, I'm sure, the elements of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood will collapse. So today I prayed that these laws would withdraw and that the Kolega would turn into a committee and try to come up with a common solution that could be sustainable and good for Mostar, because what's good for Mostar is good, I'm convinced, for both Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I think today we're on the surface discussing who's here who can't, who can't, that's not the question of the law that's on the agenda. So I am afraid that this Parliament, and not only this Parliament, has no answer to any neural point. Let's ask ourselves why the pasivisation of international institutions in this country, some of them looking at miracles, some of them getting away, some of this country doesn't even care, but it's not the most tragic, it's the most tragic thing that we don't seem to be interested in. So is it clear to us today, that we are talking about a unique Mostar, and that we have four motions to divide by national seams. Now, to me, who today's public we can convince that any of these laws can withstand the rehearsal of time. The second thing, the law is not passed for us here in Parliament, and unfortunately here we are divided, brought for the citizens of Mostar. Whatever we bring will be realized in Mostar and we will see what the citizens of Mostar will say about any deal if it exists or does not exist, but what is most regrettable is not a good deal, a good deal needs to be made. I wish today I heard them say where they are in this, where in these proposals, I actually think there are some suggestions, and I heard even from the judicial institutions, that it's not too late to pass the law until half of May, by the end of May, the Mostar Act. I'm afraid, therefore, there is time, if there is time, let him sit down and look for a solution that will be a solution for Mostar City that will not send an ugly message, and Mostar certainly is a neural point. It doesn't matter which of these dots are going to plan, however, the ones I've listed, for the future of this country. 37 And I'm sorry I said I'm going to leave a little bit of the topic, I think we're also going to have some discussions today, but I'm not sure we're going to get to the law, because the way this whole thing was being prepared didn't guarantee any success or passing any of the legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12402	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on continuing to lead this House. So, I haven't really thought about discussing it, but certain discussions my fellow MPs have offered me and I'd like not to be represented by those who at least have the right to do so, I mean colleagues from the DF, but I'll say the following. So, it's well known who made the Mostar case, so it's the least done by HDZ, at least HDZ is known who created it and HDZ has tried, therefore, using the Constitutional Court Institution, if you want to, to get to the point where Mostr is the same as any other city, as any other environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, if the value of the vote in Mostar were like anywhere else, we were nothing else. Obviously, there is no agreement at the moment, and it is clear from the fact that there are at least three proposals or four, that whoever is watching it and that I would also like to see all these proposals withdraw today and come up with a good proposal as Mr Špirić said. Says my friend Omer from Travnik, says – you know what Nikola I know you and your family and your Lovrinović, says, at the time we talked about language, you have the right to defend your language, says, and you have the right to say what to my political representatives, he meant to the Bosniak people to whom he belongs, but, he says, please don't insult the people. So, he was probably thinking about his or any other, it's just that anyway, I think Omer said it right. So, some of us here want, members of the Croatian people to think of as imbeciles, so it's not Mostar's case, for me it's Travnik, for me it's Bugojno, for me it's a case of Zenica, for me it's a case of Tuzla, for me it's a case of everything, so we have to law on local administration and self-government to solve issues that all people are satisfied. Mostar's case was made by those who had power both through the media and through other institutions to make it a case. When you ask it to be equal, when the Constitutional Court gives you the opportunity to create Mostar as other environments, then it cannot be done through the Constitutional Court to be equal. Whatever this Croatian people and their representatives are asking for, whether it's a channel, whether it's education in their own language, it's all divided, it's all divided. So you can't even go through the Constitutional Court anymore, so these proposals go towards protecting one of the constituent people who can be in a position to be, to be threatened by his rights. What is it about somewhere else that all rights are protected, so who thinks so anyway? So I'm also unhappy with one of these proposals that was proposed today, and even my own, but I'd like to come to an agreement, to realize that this is a country of constituent peoples and that everywhere we have to be equal and protected. So, I won't agree to anything I don't have an answer for and in Travnik to solve questions, it's a city that's the capital of a single county with a special regime. What do you think we agree to be a permanent captain of a constitutive people, that this is what the people of Bugojne agree to do, that the people of Zenica do so. So, you, those who have power, especially the public real of Mostar's case. I don't agree with that, I won't accept it, and I ask you not to hold us... those who have the least right, those who lead the Croatian people to neurolgia, and above all, that is, for example. Mr Komšić, at least it's a violation of the Codex and now he's teaching me here and offering me a lawyership, Dragan Čović needs a lawyer, not a lawyer, and least of all him. 38 So, I ask you nicely to find and I would like if you could find a situation to withdraw all three of these proposals so that we can come up with a good solution, perhaps using the opportunities that Mr Špirić has spoken and that it is later done, and if not, of course, I will support our previous one, but I believe that this issue must be found definitely a complete solution for all the environments in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not just individually and to make cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12404	We don't have any more of this agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. The request of MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on Emergency Procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1230/16, of 25.04.2016. On 27 April 2016, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions which found that it was in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. I'm opening a debate on an emergency procedure request.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12406	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12407	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12408	Mr. Bosić, uh, it's not really a criticism, we've just adopted a conclusion today, but I remind you, we've adopted the conclusion that we're voting right now, uh, on an emergency procedure, so that the request, or Mrs. Krištvo's bill, should now be made known, uh, about the emergency procedure, as we did.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12409	Just an emergency procedure and a debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12410	You don't see, so we obviously didn't follow enough, so they're going through an emergency procedure tonight, and the conclusion that's related to the Interresor Group's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12411	In fact, we voted for all three emergency procedures laws. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12412	It's a vote in the end, we didn't, we didn't vote for one. So, I'm opening an emergency procedure at the sixth agenda. Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate or it is a mistake, a debate. Please, line up a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We as promoters are deeply convinced that the bill of the Electoral Act is...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12414	Please, please, Mr. Đonlagić means this is an emergency procedure debate right after the vote we are discussing...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12415	And that's why, no, no, I'm looking at Staš Košarac, he's laughing, but he actually knew I was wrong, so he's laughing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12416	Oh, no, no, please. Please vote on emergency procedures. For 27, v. 1, abstention 11. There is a general and entity majority, an emergency procedure has been adopted. We're moving on to a debate about the law. Mr. Đonlagić, you did not sign up, please sign up. Mirsad Đonlagić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, once again. So, the promoters, we as the promoters of this Election Law for Mostar, are deeply convinced that this is the Law, and so we call it, truly bridgery, was it done with consultations with some NGOs from Mostar, as well as with the citizens of Mostar who had the opportunity to make their proposals and suggestions. What I want in the shortest notice, on which this bill is based, is that it is undisputed with this proposal that the City of Mostar is unique, the unique city is respected by decisions of the Constitutional Court, citizens elect mayors and two mayors and is provided with full equality both for all peoples and others. Of course, I wouldn't want to go into all the other members of this Law in detail, but I would simply quote some of the reasons for these solutions. Therefore, the City Council is intended to consist of 35 council members and that council members are elected in election units in accordance with Article 19(4) of this Act. Election units are the central zone and six urban areas that match the former city municipalities. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12418	May I have your attention, please stop talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12419	Well, they probably already made a decision, so they don't care what it's about... but good.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12420	I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12421	I'll continue as if they're very careful, don't worry. Article 2 provides for the number of council members elected from each election unit, the principle that at least four representatives from the order of each constituent people and one from the others will be represented in the City Council, and that none of the constituent peoples can have more than 15 council members in the City Council. The way to ensure a minimum quota of representation as defined in Article 19.4. of Article (3) shall be provided for in detail the way in which the City Council mandates are assigned to be granted in order to meet the conditions and prescribed by Article 2 of this Act, i.e. Article 19.4. of this Election Act. So here we only have, I have to point out, that there is one combined procedure here, that is, citizens are choosing and that is, citizens are proposing candidates and they have the opportunity to choose candidates for mayor and mayor by leaving the City Council to choose between the proposed mayors and the two mayors. We believe that with this proposal all the preconditions have been met, all the preconditions for Mostar to stop being more stories the way it was here now in several emotional discussions mentioned and we believe that this way can ensure normal functioning, as well as meeting all the elementary needs and citizens of Mostar. I call upon everyone to support this bill, of course, if there are any suggestions to see what these suggestions are, why are these suggestions and give a good will to accept a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12422	Thank you. Discussion, MP Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12423	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Given the currentity of the topic and many stated findings, criticism, praise, some new solutions and everything else, and since this Act, the Party of Democratic Action and the SBB worked together, above all respecting both the attitudes and opinions of the people living in Mostar. I can repeat some of the things that my colleague Đonlagić said and explained, and the basis of this proposal is that the City of Mostar is a unique city, so you have a proposal, you have read all the members and I am convinced that you have implemented all its provisions and that there is no need here to convince fellow Members to support this Law. We tried to find a compromise solution by respecting both the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and I think we are on the trail of a good legal solution for the City of Mostar that enables the equality of all citizens in the City of Mostar. And we really wish 41 that the City of Mostar would not be a city case but that it would be a city where all citizens will live equally and all have, all have the same rights under the law, be able to be elected, choose and participate in the cultural, political and every life of Mostar. I wouldn't enter here about election units, I wouldn't enter about quotas, you're all aware that here are defined and minimum and maximum quotas, there are minimum four for each constituent people and one of the others, they're top 15 and this, what you've already heard and what we've presented these days in the media, that's one, in one way the new method of selecting mayors, normally respecting the Constitution, means that the final word gives the City Council, but there's also a chance for Mostar citizens to choose the most successful on one single list for the mayors of Mostar. I mean, if there were any good will, if there was a good will, and if we could look at this law a little bit more detail, that this law had a good basis for it today to get a majority and go towards the House of Nations, and that's where we'll see and negotiate further fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12424	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12425	I thank the chairman. I'm very sorry that over the last point... the discussion went completely wrong, which is war and war opportunities mentioned, because the essence of this session today, the main things to focus on, is. This proposal implements a full decision of the Constitutional Court on the value of the vote, the value of the voting law in Mostar, to the joint SBB and the SDA. Therefore, the derogations are ± 10%, and this is fully in line, not only with the Constitutional Court Decision, but also with the request from the appeal addressed to the Constitutional Court. Another key question, no division of Mostar City, this proposal does not allow it. The third key question, this is a bridge solution. In making this solution, the primary role was the delegations of both parties from Mostar, and I should especially stress, indeed, the energy Mr. Oručević put into all of this. The fourth key, the fourth key principle in this proposal, is all fully with the Constitution, in line with the Federation of BiH constitution. You will remember when I proposed a solution to the completeness of the Serbian Club which even today, now two years from the election, the Serbian Club in the House of Peoples of the Federation is still a pain in the ass. And then the DF was the most globular that the solution couldn't be countered by the Federation Constitution, and the DF and SDP today offered a solution to the direct election of the mayor, which you yourself know is the constitution of the Federation. So much for consistency. That's the fourth. And the fifth, fifth key principle is that the ruling majority is fully committed to resolving the Mostar issue. You can't back down from these principles, you can't back down from this, this is fixed. And that's why I'm saying that we're as close as anyone has ever been to solving this bridge issue, the closest thing we've ever been to, and the most we've come to is the decision of this, the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, which was, in fact, the old and led to the talks on Mostar. We've solved the maltenes, so the question is just some technical details, and the maltenes are solved. And there's absolutely no deviation from this. Now, let's deal with the famous May 4th, because in public... a completely wrong perception is that if something isn't adopted by May 4th that can't be applied to Mostar in this election cycle. That's absolutely not true. So, legally speaking in the Electoral Law, you have a provision that says that all amendments and additions to the Election Law, I am paraphrasing now, of course, so in the Election Law, everything you want to apply to certain elections should be adopted 6 42 months before the election. But it's a legal provision, it's not a constitutional provision. So if we reach a solution for Mostar, come on, now I'm potential again, we're very close, if we reach a solution for Mostar, if we solve such a huge legal issue, so of course we'll solve that transitional and final provision for us to write in these amendments and additions to the Law that this specific provision is not relevant to Mostar this year for about 6 months. Therefore, it is not too late for a solution when it comes to Mostar, especially since these attitudes are so close that they have never been closer. And that's the message that needs to leave this session today, not the message of war and war. So, again, the Constitutional Court's decision is being implemented, there is no division of Mostar, a bridge solution, all in accordance with the Federation Constitution and the ruling majority fully committed and extremely close to the solution of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12426	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, MP Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12427	So if you're so close to a solution why you offered two solutions today. Why didn't we get one solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12428	Deputy Chairman, Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12429	Thank you very much. I also wanted to take a brief look at it, I consider it both politically and as an advocate correct in terms of this proposal, in essence, and at these considerations that the promoters actually gave us. I, indeed, support certain things in terms of this proposal and these arguments that are mentioned here, but what I would like to say about the amendment and addition of the election law as regards, here by the SDA, or SBB, is that, of course, they have tried in any case also to implement the Constitutional Court's ruling in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is seen, at least to me, in some way, in relation to the proposals so far, in terms of equating the value of the vote, but I want to say that it is still not the extent to which it may be and to which it is, here I would say, and the proposals that we have discussed earlier. What am I saying? In the election units you have defined in your proposal, you have also defined the central area as a special constituency, and you know that it, in accordance with the Statute, is not an electoral area, cannot be an electoral unit. So I'm talking about the concrete things that are to me and which in some way, here you won't get the wrong idea, and I find both of which unconstitutional, or unfounded. So, what would be discussed is that part of the electoral units and that vote, and that's why I want to look back in the context of your proposal and, in some ways, to have some hope that there's some space still in the next period to eventually come up with some kind of solution when it comes to the City of Mostar. 43 What I also find controversial with the aspect of the Constitution is the choice of mayors and mayors. That I hope you all understand well, regardless, here's what you said that there's some constitutional basis, reading me as a lawyer with my experience here I'm asking the first question whether this is a direct indirect choice, because it's not exactly defined here, it's ultimately chosen from the City Council, so that's how you tie it up that it's indirect, or indirect, and it's actually direct. And what's also questionable to me is that the Constitution has said that any citizen who can vote for the mayor can be elected, and that means anyone who has passed through the City Council. So he's not talking about having mayors. It is also a controversial provision from the aspect of the Constitution that speaks of, meaning the largest number of votes. That automation is a constitutional, let me say, problem. But what am I saying? I respect that you have had your proposal and if you put this as a proposal, I think that before a proposal like this should come constitutional changes that would make this possible. Why am I talking? Why would the City of Mostar be the only city that has mayors and mayors and I won't rule out that possibility, but indeed, here are the principles that other cities have. And that, I say, is an open opportunity for all of us in the course of the conversation if we can come up with such solutions, of course, by respecting the principles and respecting still the constitutional foundation, which we now have until it changes. Here, thank you, I hope you understand me, and my attitude and focus was, here's the context if I can come up with a solution from both this and all the other proposals for Mostar City and all the other unresolved issues that we have, no matter what some think, whether it's the result of the debate. I say that as a representative from one serious party and we do everything we can to come up with solutions that are, above all, good for all the peoples and citizens who live in Mostar and, of course, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12430	Thank you. Since I see the debate spreading to inform you that the break is scheduled after the 8th point of the agenda. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12431	I, the Honorable Chairman, volunteered to replicate my fellow Arnaut, and then Mrs. Krišto answered her word, and I was a little late. And, therefore, this replica is not to you, Mrs. Krišto. It refers to the correction of an incorrect assumption, that they are very close to never getting close to an agreement. And it's great that Mrs. Krišto spoke before this replica of mine because we saw from it that they were so close that the partners differed in little things, which is that some people consider something constitutional and others unconstitutional. So we got so close. And it would be good if we didn't spread some false optimism and blur people's eyes if we were so close, as counterpart Bećirović said, we would have agreed to the proposal today, so we would talk about finesse, so we would have two readings, possibly an amendment. This way we have 10 suggestions, no one can, but we're close. I don't think that's...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12432	Discussion, Ambassador Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12433	Well, we've mentioned this many times today, so I think we've abused that term to the citizens of Mostar. And so often we speak for the citizens of Mostar, so here I am. I live relatively close to 44 Mostars, I'm not a citizen of Mostar, but I can speak for my children who are citizens of Mostar. On behalf of... of the citizens of Mostar... that they would like life in Mostar, including the electoral part of life in Mostar, to be as it is in other cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we, too, live in a similar electoral way. And that is, in principle, the political attitude of HDZ, the CNS, so my political parties and options. But if we live in real and political and all other circumstances as they are, and if we are making these laws today for the simple reason to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling, which is very clear, then we must comply with these circumstances of the Constitutional Court's judgment with the circumstances of the Statute... The city of Mostar and under the circumstances of the Federation of BiH Constitution, which we cannot directly influence from here. If we really want one of these three proposals to be the basis for the Mostar elections together with the elections in other local communities, then we have to look for the law that has no constitutional deficit. The constitutional deficit in one proposal is the direct choice of mayor. If reading the Constitution widely, I'm sorry, I'm not a constitutional expert.), here are the lawyers, nor the legal expert, and here are the lawyers, if, broadly speaking, this indirect choice of mayor and we can lead under constitutional solutions, and then quite certainly, the choice of the existence of the mayor, which is not in the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, we cannot easily undertake a constitutional solution. So, if we want to solve here, we have a proposal from the HNS and HDZ BiH that could be the basis for holding elections in Mostar City. Unfortunately, here we are in some way aware that a number of circumstances in this House may not lead to this today. I am personally, so to speak, on behalf of my children, again I say, happy that there are, here are indications of circumstances and ways to solve this problem in the coming days, and I see that certain proximity, whatever colleague Magazinović, in some ways, to talk about it, according to these solutions. The solutions we have offered in our HNS solution are principled, closest to meeting the conditions concerning the Constitutional Court's rulings. If the value of the vote is mathematically, we haven't done it yet, but I have tables here, I won't bother you with it, if we want to mathematically bring the value of the vote to these three solutions, then this solution is really the closest. The central zone issue has solved all three solutions in different ways. The solution we have offered offers one, I would say, multiethnic constituency in the middle of Mostar City which, in a way, restricts the continuing urban zone of Mostar City, which is, in a way, a political community. And that's the value of that solution that... in the way we see it for the central city zone. The solutions to select a part of the MPs through, from the entire city is also one solution that not only contributes mathematically... the value of the vote, but contributes to that widely proclaimed often very clear thesis on Mostar as a unique city. We all say that, but in some ways and through solutions, we have to show it. So we here have three of these solutions by emergency procedure, we have a choice to vote on, but what's very important is we have to look for a choice, we have to look for a solution for this part, for this Mostar problem, because that, and the only thing in our debate here is to me, in a way, echoed as quality and good is that there is a general mood and a spirit to look for that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12434	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12435	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 45 Honestly speaking, I had no intention of speaking, but since I see that everything is in line and that nothing has produced a result and nothing has been agreed, and it is all in harmony that does not yield results and that nothing is in line in the finality of today's session will not yield results. And after discussing my esteemed colleague, MPs or MPs, Borjana Krišto, I feel like a man of need, not to confront here, not to bring into doubt and doubt, not to bring into any kind of disharmonic overall relationship, but rather to take steps towards total convergence and attempt to make this country, whether we want it or not, live perhaps the poorest period in its history, and its citizens along with it, that they start to breathe normally. But we already have that solution as far as the mayor, the mayor, Sarajevo has the mayor and two mayors, means Sarajevo as a city, but that's not the point or the point. The point or point is that Sarajevo is no longer the city as we know it, but it was conceived by four municipalities, because we formed a canton, so it's not that city anymore, nor is it that city in the dream. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Now I'm gonna touch you and Nikola. And then we have, this shows that we should enter into a full change of the electoral law, or finally join these constitutional changes. We've got Banja Luka, since Nikola has me, in which you don't have any Hrvat or Bošnjak in the City Council. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12438	Please don't have a discussion from the scene.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12439	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12440	I'm not speaking to you, I'm telling the MPs not to get out of place. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12441	I'll read them one by one. Okay, I didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12442	Please, Mr. Špirić, let's not have a discussion...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12443	... but the overall relationship, if nothing, what we were saying was respected, up to this list to be respected, it's a list from '91. Exactly how much there was, 54, 28, 14%, etc., I'm talking about the people of Banja Luka, so there were 14% of Hrvat. 46 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I didn't say they were gone, God forbid I said it, but I told you about the Council. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12446	Please don't have a discussion with the MPs from the post.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12447	...of the government of Nikola, of the government...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12448	Mr. Backović, don't speak to the MPs, please...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12449	... You allow the Messenger to speak to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12450	Well, I didn't. I warned him too.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12451	So we have a lot more of this problem and it's not Travnik, it's not Mostar, it's Travnik, it's Mostar, it's Vakuf Gornji, it's Novi Travnik, it's Busovci, it's Kiseljak, it's Knight, it's Sarajevo, and Zenica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And you see that I will mention all things, and the pupils, and the Trebines, and Bileca, and Gacko, and Zvornik, and all Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have to find someone else. I say again, I'm probably living the worst time in my history except for the wars, I'm talking peacetime. And there's no tension here, and God Bog any conflict, but let's make solutions, because whoever's not from these spaces and read that we have three suggestions on the same subject today, they'll realize that, not only are we insecure, but we don't really want a solution. Give me some whispers I'll vote for. I've got three, Zaname vote... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12454	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, MP Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12455	Short, this one, Zaimu, therefore, and those who cast Zaimu. Zaim is right, there is not one representative of the non-Serb people in the City Council in Banja Luka, as in many other municipalities across Bosnia and Herzegovina there are those who plead differently. So what's and what's the problem, and all the people who discussed today when they say that we have three or four solutions, and another question. We formed an Interresor Working Group is that we were obviously doing something to make ends meet. I'm afraid it'll be the result of today's work. And here, we need to give everything, we need to make a contribution to everyone to try something after all. So we have, when you look at, let's say, on this agenda point around the Interresor Working Group, you'll see, let's say, that we now have municipal elections and no question regarding municipal elections has been specifically treated by this Interresor Working Group. We have there guaranteed, let's say, the obligation to have representatives of national minorities in all municipal councils, and, let's say, we haven't secured the mechanism for having representatives, as it is called, ethnic groups, or constitutive peoples. So in that sense, I think that Zaim with this last sentence of mine -- let's sit down and let's do in that sense what it is, some kind of responsibility and agreement, and then go out here to the Parliamentary Assembly to make a statement about something, I think this is well-intentioned, as it is called, well-intentioned suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12456	Thank you. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12457	I don't really like the Honorable Chairman, these counts of blood cells, nor did we from the SDS ever hear any of us say to anyone that he's less Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak because he doesn't belong to national parties. I must correct the esteemed colleague Šepić and say that it is not true that there are no Hrvat in the City of Banja Luka Assembly. There are Hrvat in the City of Banja Luka Assembly, they come from some other parties, they don't come from, I think they come from parties based in Republika Srpska, but I think they are the same Hrvat as those who are not, who are here in the Federation. 48 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12458	Here again is the correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12459	With all due apologies and respect, I really don't have the habit of speaking on this subject, nor will I ever speak except now, and this is what I'm going to end up with. I would like Ms. Pandurević to say so when it comes to other people, including those who sit in the Canton Sarajevo Assembly, so he is the vice-president, but he is not respected as a Srbin, and what is the deputy mayor of the city of Sarajevo, so he is not respected as a Serb, and those who are in the Council and are not respected as Srbin. Let's not do that. So they have the right of people and some other political commitment to be members of peoples and nations, that's their right. So that's a fact, I can show you right now and read what you're saying about these people. So, we should all, like, here's no distinguished colleague, Željka Komšić, he's not an indigenous Hrvat because he doesn't belong to an indigenous party named that and so on. I don't want to talk about it, I want to say that it's the right of every political commitment to go anywhere, Čerčil's changed the party 11 times, read Čerčilove's memoirs, so he's been an Englez his whole life. And as for the Council, Šepiću, I've got it open and it really isn't, it's not. I'm not saying there isn't, there's no Bošnjak... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So ask the SDA, man, is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12461	Come again, please...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12462	You see, Nikola, that you and I understand each other. I want... the right to freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12463	Mr. Backović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12464	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12465	Lazar Prodanović, not respecting the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12466	The chairman, I would therefore like to ask, here is the item of the agenda of the amendment and the addition of the City of Mostar Election Act and refers exclusively to the unification of the value of the vote in order to... the parliamentary mandates. What does all the other stories have to do with it now, we're just losing it needlessly, let's end this debate. And if we can't put an end to a little segment like this, imagine what we'd get into if we were to now, as our distinguished colleagues are saying, about other issues that we could solve. So, to uphold the Constitution and the law, that is, the bill. The debates and replicas are completely out of order, off the agenda... 49
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12467	I agree. Vice-President Šefik Džaferović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12468	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is today, I am counting on my first announcement, not counting on that intervention this morning, and I want to take the opportunity to thank Mrs. Borjana Krišto for her current presidency of the House of Representatives for the past eight months and to wish Mr. Mladen Bosić a successful chairmanship of this House over the next eight months. Let me just say a few sentences when it comes to the law proposed by the SDA-SBB Club, which concerns the City of Mostar. I think it is a proposal that offers or establishes equality for all, both citizens and constituent peoples and others in the City of Mostar, excludes the domination of anyone over anyone and fully respects what, when it comes to the Mostar, is agreed in the Washington Agreement and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Mostar, therefore, is a question now of the Dayton Peace Agreement, as some other issues have been addressed in the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that fact must be considered when we talk about some specificity regarding the City of Mostar, and it is therefore related to the situation that no policy in the City of Mostar can play a dominant role and that it requires a constant settlement, because that is, I say, the product of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And it's just like that. The SDA and SBB proposal is in line with the BiH Constitution. The central zone is one of the arguments presented by the BiH Constitutional Court in its decision and the non-representation of the people of the Central Zone in the City Council for the reasons why we opted for such a solution, and it is true that the Constitution of the Federation states that Mostar is atypical of other municipalities, therefore exceptional from the provision of Article 13.7. The election law provides for an indirect choice of mayor. We respected that provision, prescribed an indirect choice of mayor. The two mayors are not contrary to the Federation of BiH Constitution and the election is being held in the City Council by the respective majority on the basis of a list previously tested in general elections by citizens living in the City of Mostar. So much for the solution itself. Whether that solution will pass today or not I don't know, it would be good to have the support of the House of Representatives. Let me just say a few more sentences, and refer to some discussions that refer to regrets for politics and so far's work by the U.S.A. They're not insinuations, they could be some kind of provocation. First of all, no one here has agreed on how this is going to go, we've all said what we're going to support, what we're not going to support, and then we can draw conclusions from that, but the deal is definitely not there. So I reject any claim that goes after the agreement being made not to pass any of these laws, it's simply not true. As for SDA policy, therefore, I reject all these provocations that go after them to show that the SDA represents a policy of division. The SDA is a political party representing the principle of the unique City of Mostar, which will ensure the equality of all and exclude the domination of anyone over anyone. And our proposal, along with our colleagues from the SBB, speaks best on the subject. It is true to discuss other issues concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina's structure and implementation of other decisions, including the European Court of Human Rights, and it is true that the SDA is a political party that understands the soul and nature of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its multiethnic character and is fully aware that this fact in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be respected. No Niko in Bosnia and Herzegovina gives anything to anyone, belongs to what is prescribed by the Constitution of BiH and the U.S.A. will always support that everything that belongs to the Constitution of BiH is indeed so, so we have chosen to talk about the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights in 50 ways that we all here in Parliament have ultimately supported through the work of inter-resor working groups, we have had two, a way of implementing that verdict. But it is also true that the SDA will never allow any additional ethnic or territorial division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a correct one, I would say, a completely fair relationship with the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I reject, once again, any insinuation at the expense of SDA policy. Dragan Čović, I apologize for mentioning the name of the man, others have, therefore, mentioned... No one gives HDZ anything, everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to what they belong to, but only what they belong to, and beyond that no one can have anything more. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12469	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12470	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although it is quite said I will still say a few words more, here I am trying to help the representatives of the CNS to perhaps look at this Proposition of the Party of Democratic Action and the SBB on the one hand. In order to be able to go back a little bit, and here is exactly what Mr Džaferović was talking about, but I would like to specify it precisely and say that in 10.11.1995, in Dayton, an Agreement on the Resuscitation of the Federation of BiH and in that Agreement was signed in Mostar, because the Annex of this agreement was signed on Mostar. Without that part on Mostar, there is no Federation of BiH, without the Federation Agreement, no Dayton Peace Agreement. And that's why Mostar is specific, and that's why we can only talk here today about Mostar, not mentioning other municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because if they were to be mentioned then they would be an integral part of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And that period, uh, you know, I'll remind us only that in 2004, the High Representative made certain changes, changed the Statute that was defined in 1996, the Transition Statute, but then made a few mistakes that were not spoken of or individuals spoke before, contrary to the meaning of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, violated the Dayton Agreement, ignored the referendum, etc. However, this Statute of the City of Mostar gave an opportunity for a single city, equality, could have been worked on, on, in the ultimate goal of Mostar, here it was just defined in that direction, that it is unique, that there is none, that all constituent nations are equal, defined in that kind of legal sense everything that is good at that moment for Mostar. Now, what Mr. Lovrinović was talking about, and I didn't replicate, I want to say now. Then HDZ made a problem with its appeal to the Constitutional Court, and we have been having a problem since then, so there was no such appeal and such a, such a solution made by the High Representative, Mr Ešdaun in 2004 would have worked and probably promoted Mostar and relations within Mostar, and then we have a ruling Constitutional Court and we have this Mostar City case, the situation in which he is present. I will ask myself one more question and all of us here, especially representatives of the Croatian national parties, which is why, even then, the High Representative has defined election areas and determined the same number of council members from these election areas, regardless of the number of conditions on the ground. And then we have to go back again, and back again means that there was war in Mostar, that there was aggression in Mostar, that more than 20,000 people were killed in Mostar, and that the Court of Justice in The Prlić and others was condemned as a joint criminal enterprise, and that by estimating the change of demographic structure, the disappearance of one nation and the High Representative in 2004 defined the Statute in such a way. And I don't think there was any dispute between us and today, and here I am, 51, writing to myself, we have a social and political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Mostar and what it was in 2003. It is the least human that should now be introduced into this Statute or in such a way to look at things and then say, that is why it should be in Mostar and that is why it is embedded in this Electoral Law, be mayor and two deputy mayors and follow the development, follow the socio-political situation, follow the conditions of life of citizens etc. Maybe at some other stage, the reaction phase. I think that would be human, so it would be fair to approach it this way when it comes to this problem. And what Mr. Prodanović was talking about, I think there's space here, so as far as I understand it, representatives of the Serbian people would be...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12471	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12472	I will immediately interrupt, interested, meaning the general city list which was in 2004, i.e. the lists from the electoral fields, and I think it's a space where SDA and SBB promoters can enter into an even story to find a compromise, i.e. with HDZ, if we appreciate what I'm talking about and returning, meaning, a complete political picture in Mostar, to the reality that she is currently in. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12473	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12474	So, I would say to Mr Sokolović that he was probably the image of that recognition by the SDA of opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, probably what he's saying. So it's not just Mostar City case, but in this country there are other municipalities, if you're going to say so as you're now saying we'll probably have a hard time getting to the solution. If only the conflict had been in Mostar, it was not true in Travnik from which 19.5 thousand Hrvat, 40 villages and settlements remained desolate, the city was in a special regime as Mostar was, and some strange circumstances were some institutions that could, and above all the high representative brought the confusion he brought. When we wanted each vote to be the same in Mostar as in any other municipality, so here is the Constitutional Court, as I said, so we can't reach an equal position through the Constitutional Court. So if you wanted it to be the same for all of us why we didn't go to Mostar and it'll be worth the same vote as in Travnik, so to every voter as it should be. And as for, therefore, that proposal you represent and which you defend, here I will personally agree to support this proposal just to add one article, that all the principles that you have stated for Mostar can be applied under certain circumstances in every environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will immediately support that proposal no longer has any problem, and then there will be no more Mostar case itself but we will see that there are cases still in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that people are dissatisfied, perhaps even Bošnjak are not all satisfied in Kiseljak, say, from where... I come from Central Bosnia, perhaps Hrvat are not satisfied in Zenica etc. But it means where it goes, where 52 public climates are being stoked, where you find a foothold, here's what you say, in Dayton, there's Vošington, there's other signed agreements, where you don't like it then don't talk, where you take it, you solve one problem at a time, what Mr. Backović said, I'm ready to solve the problems all, let's solve through constitutional changes, let's solve the positions of all people to be equal in every space of this country, and not just equal in one part of this country, it's not okay and it's not fair and the proposal isn't fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12475	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, Ambassador Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12476	Well, the correction of the wrong quote refers to the presentation of fellow Sokolović. The war wasn't just in Mostar, the war was unfortunately in this entire country and the war in Mostar was not correct. To touch the UN court's inadmissible verdict, especially in the context of everything we know today about The Hague Court, is also not correct. And the third thing I meant to say, and now here I have almost forgotten is the fact that the problems in the election process in Mostar did not bring the appeal of Croatian envoys from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court's verdict, it is very..., very clear ruling of the Constitutional Court that we are trying to fulfill. There's so much like, here's the correction...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12477	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, so I was precise when I was speaking the Dayton Peace Accords of Mostar, no other municipality in Bosnia and Herzegovina except Brcko was treated with the Dayton Peace Agreement, and on that basis, Mostar was given a specific... and I don't know why, what's the issue with his colleagues, and then there was probably something, and here I tried to explain what it was. As far as the second-degree verdict is concerned, and there are political games there, is it supposed to be passed maybe in this year it was moved to '19? Or in the '20s, probably until we solve Mostar in a different way that someone thinks she wouldn't have her own app in the Statute of Mostar City. So we have to take care of this, but when I was talking about this, I was talking about the idea of understanding the circumstances that were in Mostar, which are currently in Mostar, and getting close to attitudes and solving the problem, and here is why Mostar needs both mayors and two deputy mayors, I didn't say anything else, and I didn't mean to ignore the attitudes of the Croatian people. Because if we start talking about the past, then I can come back when we applied for the Credentials Community, some '98. the year we did not get it, but the Croatian people took it, for the Croatian people were excluded parts of the municipality of Maglaj and Zavidovići and... The Žepč, did it, meaning it was going in some way to meet the aspirations and wishes of the Croatian people, and somewhere it was not in the interest to do so when it comes to the Federation of Bošnjak, but my Bog, now we have something that is concrete and which we might be able to bring to an end in one quality way. Thank you, Chairman. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12479	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12480	I expected this session not to be used much to speak, but initiated by constructive discussions sometimes a man must. Nikola extra you're right, seriously, but always walk away from yourself, so it's not just you, it's us, we all together. Because where we plead that Srbin are obstructing, pleading with Bošnjak and Hrvat, then Srbin plead to destroy Hrvat and Bošnjak in that place, then in third place Hrvat to obstruct or destroy Bošnjak or Srbin, then Bošnjak to obstruct and destroy Hrvat or Srbin, and so we are in one chain of circuits or they have hooked us up with that hoolahop, we should not spin hooks but hoolachop around us in summer or so we live year after year. Let us go, and I also listed Sarajevo, you heard, so I listed this and in order everything we have there are many problems and desires and the goal of dominating in one place is the worst quality a man can possess. There is no eternity like there is no human eternity, there is no eternity of domination. Every one in history, history, history who tried in any way to be over someone dominant when it fell, from ancient times, to Rome, to the Ottoman Empire, so look to the second, first, World War II, and look after it.../warning the messenger in time/... Cambodia, Thailand, Malaysia, I can count now, and always those who wanted to dominate eventually had to bend, or that's what the people say to bend their tails. So we should think and sit open to each other, open up the cards and solve the citizens' problem, not the nations and religions. Those who deal with religious affairs live in Bosnia say...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12481	Mr. Backović's time is up. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12482	It's not bad once, but it's really bad for the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12483	Diana Zalenika, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12484	Oh, here's a quick one, I would suggest once again that this return to the '90s in a way that we reroute to the 2020 view, not to the '90s, I'm a terrible pain, I say to Mr. Sokolović, the word aggression. I don't think it's appropriate at all, although in his later correction of the incorrect quote he was trying to ease the weight of that word, but it hurt me terribly both as a man and as a member of the Croatian people how to use it at all when this same Croatian people for the time of these events, which I don't want to go back to, was taken care of by 130 thousand Bošnjak. There's only that much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12485	Thank you. Discussion, Denis Bećirović. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12486	The Honorable Chairman. I think it made sense that we had a previous point, this point, and the next one might have been united in one debate, but the Kolega have opted for this kind of debate and what's there. I have carefully read not only the proposal that came from us from SDP and DF, but also other proposals relating to Mostar and would no longer spend time repeating and talking about individual solutions contained in these proposals. Since I may be the last debater within this agenda point, I think that at the end of this debate, I should say something about what the essence is, and the bottom line is that, and today we are also discussing it in Parliament, we have two visions of Mostar, two concepts, two systems of values, and they crash in Mostar. Today, ethnocrats in this country and democracy clash in Mostar. Ethnocratia has done no good in this desire over the past two decades and I am convinced that nothing good will do her in the years to come if we follow it both in Mostar and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the problem in my opinion is not essentially in these individual solutions anymore, but in fundamental definitions and fundamental principles. Why do I say that? The key question is whether we here in Parliament, especially key actors in Mostar, whether we people really want to, now I'm talking about Mostar, the true equality of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, others, etc. If the answer is yes, well in 24 hours we'll put it into the law and it'll be voted here. But there's no commitment to this true equality and that's the key problem. There's a dream about table towns, I don't know what cities are, and we don't work to realize what's the point. Whether we want this equality in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we want a very clear map of the road and the solution to how we will get there. I'm afraid this debate also shows in Mostar that all possible principles are trampled out, there's neither honest nor fair approach, and that's why we're where we are. A few days ago, I heard a statement by SNSD President Dodik, who, I will paraphrasise, says -- Srbin are not the factor to decide in Mostar. An indicative statement, what's that saying? Here we come from the SDP of BiH, the only political party that within its Club has Srbin from the Federation, and for us such a statement is absolutely unacceptable. If today and if any of my present can answer the following question, we will solve half of the problem with Mostar, why is this not a Serbian people constitutional and equal in the Herzegovic-Neretva canton and in other cantons in the Federation of BiH under the express domination of the HDZ? Does anyone have to say that's the answer to that question? Of course, someone will rightly ask the question – and what about the cleansed Podrinj, what about Posavina, what about Krajina, etc.? I will završić with this, I think our common interest should be that Mostar has a new beginning, that in Mostar we sincerely want to provide a unique city in which both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and others will be fully equal, and that this is an example for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fight for such a country in every inch of this country. All other divisions, bickering, dishonesty, etc. Neither Mostar nor Bosnia nor Herzegovina will bring them to the green branch.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12487	Thank you. We're finishing this part of the agenda. We're going to the seventh point, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives, Law 55 No: 01-02-1-872/16, dated 17/03/2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the PSBiH House (first reading) On 23.03.2016, the legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions which found it to be in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 26 April 2016. The Commission has established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, but has not accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Discussion, MP Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12489	I thank the chairman. I apologize, there is a lot of documentation here, at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, held on 25 April at which I attended as a representative of the legislator of the Law, was adopted without debate Opinion on non-acceptance of the principle of the proposed Law. Article 113(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives stipulates that the committee responsible in the event of negative opinion is obliged to provide a justification for such a position. It is known to me that it is an established practice to state, as an explanation, how many members of the Commission were in favour and against, but in this case, when the legislator of the Law is a parliamentary committee who is truly trying to improve the situation in the field of gender equality unlike the legislators, it was at least collegiate to try to justify reasons for not accepting the principles of the law. It is clear to me that the arguments could not be found, because they are on the side of the committee to which I chair, and they are all numbered in the light of our proposal. I also believe that this is an incorrect way to exclude the Commission's proposal to achieve gender equality from a fair race with the proposals of the Interresor Working Group at this session, which we pointed out during the debate on the agenda. I ask you – Is the principle of equal and alternating representation of both sexes on candidate lists, which gives equal chances to both female and male candidates to be visible and thus greater chance of women being elected in more than twenty percent indeed unacceptable? In this, in this law, if the rules for the election race were defined, I see no reason why the drawing for the start of the election race would not be unique for both men and women and, of course, alternating. As things stand now, we have given the male sex 60% advantage over women, so I urge you to listen to the strength of the arguments, as well as the voice of the public and reject the opinion of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12490	Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will say why I will support the Constitutional Commission's opinion, which is why I did not uphold the law. In my opinion, the Law was not supposed to be on the agenda because it did not meet Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, which says - that the legislator is obliged to deliver bill 56 simultaneously in writing and electronic form, in languages that are officially used in Bosnia and Herzegovina, except, of course, the laws proposed by the MPs. Since the Proposer of the Law is the Commission here, the Proposer was obliged to provide, meaning the Law in three languages and two letters. So, since the law is not in Cyrillic, I couldn't read it, and I didn't understand what I was washing, because it's not in Serbian. For these reasons, I will support the Constitutional Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12492	Discussion, MP Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12493	Well, I want to support this exposure and this approach that my colleague from the Commission has also talked about to achieve gender equality. I think that in this area, when it comes to equal representation or guaranteed representation of both sexes, we went one step backwards, especially because, in a way, the Interresor Working Group suggested that the candidate lists could be further arranged, in a way, we questioned it. This solution that we've had so far is better than what we are currently seeing in the proposals of the Interresor Working Group. This was a solution offered by this Gender Equality Agency and the Commission for Gender Equality. I support this approach and I call today, if we have some time, since, I said just now, we are obviously brought into some kind of teat, into a situation that we can't really change anything, but, therefore, I suggest we reject the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and try to fix it, if anything is fixed. What's a solution that might have been designed from the very beginning is that we end up getting what we have right now, but even that's a much better solution than what we currently have in the Interresor Working Group solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12494	Thank you. It's a flat quote, Diana Zelenika.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12495	Oh, here's a short one, I wanted to tell my colleague, Novaković, about this if he hadn't won in his own language and in his letter. Well, he kind of opened my eyes, so why don't we get along here at all, so we have three proposals just before the law, not just that if we don't understand the letter then we don't understand each other at these sessions at all, so I'd like to make one suggestion to introduce bugs with translation. I was just talking about thousands, so I'm afraid maybe he didn't understand me. I meant 130,000 refugees. But here, I mean a concrete proposal we're going to introduce bugs, so I guess that way we'll finally be able to understand each other, even though I think we all went to school at a time when we had a Serbian-Croatian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12496	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12497	Ma, Mr. Novaković, so if it is not in accordance with Article 105, how did the legislative commission give a positive opinion on this proposal? And secondly, Mr. Novaković, I'm going to request a simultaneous translation of yours,...I don't understand what you've answered, if that's what we're going to do with logic. I mean, this isn't the way to discuss it, and I think we should be more serious about these laws. Secondly, by the time I got up to say that we are a country which, by increasing the percentage of women's participation in the elections, has reached 20%, the average of Europe is 25 to 27%. I think this is a chance for Bosnia and Herzegovina to make a step more and to reach that level that, this was very little needed, a little understanding and that this law really gets a chance. And in the election race, of course, whoever's more capable, better, etc. will win. etc., but the same is the basis for both men and women was quite logical one chance, one chance to enter the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12498	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12499	Well, I just want to say treasure to us in the SDP, we understand all languages, we respect everything equally, we have principle, we don't think one morning, the second afternoon, and of course I will stop there without any comment, colleague Bosić, I will still follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12500	Please don't get out of the place.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12501	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12502	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12503	Well, it's obvious that my discussion had an effect, I think the message was different from what my colleagues said through their replicas afterwards, and I'm sorry it wasn't in such a way and understood message. Indeed, a colleague must ask the legislative sector why he decides against our Rules of Procedure? This is not a question I suppose for me, it may be a question for me – why did I ask that our Rules of Procedure be respected? I guess it's because I voted for him, and we all voted for him, and I guess we had to play him. Of course we understand each other well when we don't understand each other, so there's no problem with that. The problem is, colleagues, because just before my debate, actually my discussion was, in a way, a focus on the discussion just now, on the previous law and the way we understood each other in those three proposals, and my message went there, so not here. And I don't think I should further explain why I said what I said. And in the end, I had already talked about it at the beginning of this term, and I said I was asking the service to provide me with, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, materials. And I ask that I be provided with 58 in the future, otherwise those who violate the Rules of Procedure will have to answer here before us who adopt him for what they violate him for. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12504	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12505	Oh, I'd like to tell my colleague Isaković about that first part of his exposure. There doesn't have to be a law for something to apply, there doesn't have to be a law. In non-democratic societies, such as this, we have a small representation of women, and among other things, here is your political party showing the degree of democracy by not having any women in the club. Second, here's the club, the big SDA club with only one woman in it. It doesn't have to, what do you think, you're telling us in transfer – we can't do it in our shallow parties. Well, let's make you guys go one for one. I used to have an illusion that this could fill it all out, and then we came in a position to realize that there aren't so many women who are ready in that way. That every other one of us couldn't meet that condition. No Niko prevents us from doing so tomorrow, perhaps the number of young women who undergo different training and education changes and may change these conditions. But at a certain point when the SNSD started, we didn't have enough women to put on the lists that it would, and here you see how long it would take, it takes 10 years for a woman to be active in politics so she could contribute to parliamentary work and life. So the laws won't force us to be different, they'll force us to change the political structures in which we work and live, and once we change our consciousness there, the relationship with the woman in society will change.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12506	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, there's also a codex injury here when it comes to Mr. Novaković, because the Code says that MPs will be telling the truth, paraphrasing but something in that sense. Now I won't question whether or not Mr. Novaković was telling the truth when he said he didn't understand Latin, there are such people, and I wouldn't be surprised that at least when it comes to Mr. Novaković not understanding Latin. However, Mr. Novaković said he did not support the Constitutional Commission's law because he did not understand it. And that's not true anymore, because when this bill was voted on, you weren't on the Commission, and that's why...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12508	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12509	No, no, you said you didn't support the Constitutional Law because you didn't understand. You weren't, you weren't on the Commission when this bill was voted on because it was 4:4. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12510	People, we've left the topic, so please let's concentrate on the debate on the agenda point. Correction of the false allegation, the emissary of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12511	Here, I would like to refer to the presentation of counterpart Novaković who said he was waiting, at least so, I'll paraphrase, that he was waiting for this item of the agenda to send a message to the points that we had previously discussed, so I'm asking myself a question -- why didn't you respond to those points and send a message when discussing these points, but you were just waiting for gender equality to send a message from this point of the agenda to the previous points? ... He says how many people you speak are worth it. [[He/she doesn't understand, he/she speaks English.]] Unfortunately, this is true in the world only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not because it is a shame that we know two letters, that we know three languages, which basically only three percent of each other differ, so we will question this European path so that we look as Europeanly as possible, whether, and that we will be in line with Evropa, that we have cabins to translate here, that we have bugs, because it will also be under that acronym, is it, all in line with the Reform Agenda and on the way to the EU, and in order of course to employ additional party personnel who are probably speaking more foreign languages than some who are sitting here today. I also don't know what the problem is. Here we are in the Democratic Front, as well as in the SDP, we speak even two, two sides of the language, some and more, we understand both letters, it's not a problem when, colleague Novaković, we come up with a proposal to amend and supplement or some act on the Latin or Cyrillic, we absolutely understand and write one and the other, although, in contrast to you, I am a self-teacher in a Cyrillic letter, because following the unfortunate war and all the horrors that happened I am the last generation in the Lithuanian Canton that she had, is the opportunity to start with the Cyrillic, so that the sequence of events is interrupted, and I never taught her at school but I taught her myself. I think it's absolutely inappropriate that because you didn't get in your own language to reject an important proposal just for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12512	Correction of the wrong quote, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12513	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12514	He's pulling. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12515	I want to tell Mrs. Majkić, here she is, that the current genealogy of women's participation in power has really been restricted by quotas. So first we had 7%, so we had 12%, so we increased to 33% in the Electoral Law to get a percentage of 17%. So, by increasing to 40%, we've reached 20% of the government's participation. So, this chronology of events we come up with a position to make 50% of women have, is it, somewhere, a percentage that is European, is it? And secondly, I don't think it's a very good 60 example of the SBB, there may be no women represented here in the State Parliament, but I'm going to give you an example that in the Federal Parliament of 16 MPs we have 50% women, so 8 women. So that's not a very good example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12516	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12517	Thank you. Now I'm going to look back on what is and the topic of the debate, and I'd ask you to hold the chairman, I've just been correcting the wrong quote, so when I'm correcting the wrong quote, don't interrupt me because I can talk about everything anyone before me talked about. So that's it. This, as far as the very essence of this Law is concerned, and I am talking about it in the debate itself, you see, here we are now discussing the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, since this is the Commission's jurisdiction, that there is constitutional basis and consistency with the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the Constitutional Commission did not support the principles of this Law, the Proposal for Law. What are the principles of this bill? A single principle of equalising the chances of men and women, for lists to be sorted alternately and for 50% of the candidates to be male and 50% of the candidates on the lists to be women. These are principles and SNSD, SDS and HDZ did not support, so these are principles that are not supported. And I'm really sorry, uh, that the debate is going in the wrong direction, which is taking seriously completely inconclusive comments, like that Mr. Novaković, and that this leads the debate in the wrong direction, and the right direction here is about what the principles of this bill say. What's so controversial about going with 50% and what's so controversial about being alternating? The SBB, as you well know, has offered in the past session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to move from 30% to 40% and we are the kind of party, so we want to move forward. Yesterday we heard on the Constitutional Legal Commission that it would probably be the final solution to go back to what the SBB offered last year, which was adopted to 40%, because there were various proposals here to limit those 40% to the bottom of the list, that there were no more first, among the first two women, but to be now among the first three and finally, shall we go back to what we were left at. But that's not the point, the point is we're going forward and the point is that we're going forward with 50%, that the same chances are and that's to be sorted in a different way, and by increasing the electoral censorship combined with increasing the electoral census that is proposed, even these modifications that are proposed, almost certainly, we will be guaranteed to increase women's participation in all legislative bodies. So it's pure mathematics and it's very clear that it's almost guaranteed to happen. And to me, I've talked about this before, it's just amazing to me that the MPs are constantly discussing the bill's proposals, people are a bill of law, norms are being set up by law, and constantly one of the MPs finds the need for it and says, well, good thing that you don't, in your own party, solve this. Well, we solved the "white bread" in our party, for example. We throw out members who take "white bread". However, we ask that it be systematically resolved, and the laws solve systemic matters. It is not clear to me why MPs who are paid here to pass laws, to bring system solutions are constantly resorting to arguments that something needs to be partially solved, here in their own parties, personally, etc. So these are indeed comments that have nothing to do with legislative activity, and in particular with the legislative activity of the highest legislative body in the country. And I hope we get away from it, and what Mr. Isaković said, because we had this situation yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, and that 61 remark came from a party representative whose club in the Federal Parliament has 2 out of 12, and we in the Federal Parliament have 8 out of 16. I don't think that this party is specifically guilty, HDZ, which has 2 out of 12 in the Federal Parliament, I don't think the system is right and that's why we need to change it systematically. And I don't object to anyone why the lists weren't set differently when it was the Federal Parliament, so they didn't look up to their lists for the State Parliament, etc. Therefore, it is obvious that we have a systemic problem and that we need a system solution, and I do not understand why the Members of Parliament are constantly, whenever there is a bill of law, the minority resorts to these arguments – that is, you solve it with yourself, and for the system it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12518	Just to remind you that we are obliged to send the House of Peoples to decide after the 8th point, if an Interresor Working Group proposal is adopted, and that they are waiting for our decision and that you have that in mind during the debate. Here you go, correcting the wrong quote, Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12519	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12520	Not this one, next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12521	Well, here I am today specializing in a little, uh, correcting the wrong allegations of fellow Arnaut, but good this time in mild form. What HDZ thinks about gender equality is the best Nikola and I know and that's the most visible here from our club structure, the three ladies, and Nikola and I alone. About standardizing that question,... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We, well, here at the club that, on the norm of this question we really think that this question is qualityly normized in previous legal solutions, and further retreating to the sleeve of any sex through norms, whether on lists, or in parliaments, is a little perhaps for the sex of that humiliating, I would say.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12523	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12524	Well, I have to say that I wasn't joking, so this colleague Arnaut who says that I took this debate in another direction, my colleague you're wrong, I've been very serious, and I'm telling you and my colleague Maji now, this Parliament will respect the Rules of Procedure until it's in effect, and he's clear, and I liked it whether you like it or not, and I don't like some of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, so I respect them. Believe me, I respect them because we all voted them and because it's the thing of this majority here in Parliament that voted it when it voted. And the next thing you know, a couple of times, I've had a nice man, a colleague of Arnaut, implicate me of intolerance to the other sex, or whatever you want to call it. And so it wouldn't be any dilemma, so it's absolutely not true, and I don't accept it, because I guess he's the only man who thinks he is, at least I thought he was, or I think he's the only man who might have others who think so. So, absolutely please don't put a colleague in my mouth what I'm not saying, leave your way of conclusion to yourself, there's no reason to share it with me, because I don't want to share such thoughts with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12525	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12526	Mr. Novaković, one at a time. So, I had only once imputed to you that it was not appropriate to comment on your second sex when you said that your Minister Mektić was known as a great fan of women and you thought it was funny. And I did tell you then that it was inappropriate at the official commission meeting in the microphone, and I'm behind it. This time I have not instructed you anything about sex, etc., what I have instructed you today is that you have not voted on the Commission at all on the principle of the law or constitutional basis for this law, because you were not on the Commission at a given time. So it has nothing to do with whether you understand or not, so that's what I said. I most advocate that everything comes in both Cyrillic and Latin and Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian, so if that is the case, but if it's something you did or did not support on the Commission because you did not understand, we should return to the basic question, which is – did you ever support the Commission at all when it comes to this bill? And I say you didn't, because you weren't on the committee when this bill was voted on. Well, that's to clear both things up.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12527	We're completely off the subject, please stick to the agenda. Discussion, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12528	Here, I'll return to the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission on this, and here I'll wait for the colleagues to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12529	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12530	So, I'm glad that, indeed, I will also commend Mr. Novaković, who has come forward to state his position on this matter, but I am sorry that the other colleagues and colleagues who have given it, did, in the way of voting, or assessed them as not to support the principles of this proposal. So I will remind you that the gender equality law is in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Article 8(4), it also provides for certain specific measures to improve the situation of less than 63 genders represented. And just as the Commission for Gender Equality has reacted in this way to achieve and point out that this current Law which is, therefore, still in force, which is the Interresor Working Group wants to further reverse, that it prescribes that we have less represented sex in precise positions, that is position 2, 5, 8, 11, etc. This is the legal meaning and I am now asking the question – how many parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina have, despite this legal standard, given less gender represented, and these are women, whom 51% in Bosnia and Herzegovina live, allowed them to be candidates? Very little. This means that the political parties led by men, whether, decide that they absolutely need to be in the first positions, that women should, or less represented sex be on the 2nd, 5th, 8, 11, etc., place and that today, whether we have less or close to 20% less sex in all legislative bodies, i.e. A woman. It is also understandable to me when fellow MPs do not support this, but I do not understand when women do not support this and I do not understand when Mrs. Majkić says that there are no women interested, or can not be found in this political corps within a party to put women on the list. Well, does anyone ever wonder – so why should women even get involved in politics when you give them some places where there is no chance of entering any legislative body, there is no way or very difficult to be in a party, political body, everything is left to that less represented sex by the numerical state in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and these are men and we do not look at it and look at it. A kolega, Kožul, says that everything, is a fact that shows what their relationship within HDZ is to the less represented sex. If we were to, here we are from the Democratic Front to manage it, we should here the three of us stand up and say, "We're all super-solved." We're not gonna stand up for legal solutions. That would be wrong, because we, the three of us here women are absolutely in this legislative body to improve the position of less represented sex, not to maintain the status quo. Well, I hope, colleague Kožul, that you, since you said that this is a legal solution even better than that of ours from the Commission, then I assume you will vote negatively on this proposal from the Interresor Working Group in which your member sat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12531	Thank you. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12532	Well, I was at this session yesterday at the Constitutional Commission, uh, listening to my colleague Arnaut, he says Momčilo Novaković wasn't even at the session when we voted on this. And we have in the report that four votes were in, four against, one abstention. Of the 9 total members of the Constitutional Commission since it wasn't Momo, I, the one, ask to investigate who voted instead of Mom, who was the intruder and who was then the abstentioned one or, as it is called, was against it. Really, I have some dilemma, let's just say, since Momo wasn't here, and this other one voted, that he voted that we shouldn't have this debate all day, which, in my opinion, is unnecessary and I think we should support these proposals and that we should have full equality on the election lists. And here I am, once again, really insisting on investigating who the intruder was, who the ninth was at the Constitutional Court, at a session of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12533	Thank you. 64 Correction of the false quote, Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12534	So here, I'm going to correct the wrong quote and turn it off from the agenda, because we're discussing the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, so I'm simply going to tell my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, that the solution proposed by the Committee on Gender Equality, in my opinion, is, I'm now reluctant to say, for women, in my opinion, worse than the solution of the existing. According to an existing list solution, there can be 55% of women, according to a solution that you can't advocate. The solution that you advocate through this bill, in a way, limits the lists of both sexes, leaves no possibility, conditionally speaking, creations, conditionally said, that the best people for the lists are placed out of one space, so if those best people are 6 men and 4 women, so that 6 women and 4 men go, limited to a series of things, and no problem is solved. The problem solves relations in parties, relations in society and these relationships, I am happy that in this election cycle, the election cycle is going to be better and the trend is likely to continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12535	Monika Tomić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12536	I'd like to correct Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Namely, everywhere it is known that me and Mrs. Krišto were the bearers of the list, so we weren't the first on the list, so for the whole, for HDZ, and there's Dr. Zelenika, who's also in front of HDZ in 1990.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12537	Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12538	You know what this looks like to me. How many frogs does Grandma have? No, no, question, seems philosophical, how many frogs does Grandma have? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12539	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12540	And it's big, no, no, and now I'm serious, very serious, or how many sexes we have at all, we forget that we have hermaphrodites. No, no, we're laughing now, what a laugh. The European Convention on Human Rights recognises the right, freedom, etc., whatever, so now I can list everything. We forget it. Here we should go, if we're going to double sex, male and female, and in the end I'm going to say what I think about it, because there are a number of men who can be led under women, as well as a large number of women who can be led under men. That's right, that's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12541	65 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12542	I don't know, Nikola, for God's sake. Here you have to go into real, and that means writing at least so many sexes, not women, not men, but sex at least so many. And then we won't have any more of these stories here, is it a woman or a man, because equality means the same real man, it's not just a woman, we need to talk about it. Is there somewhere they've been taken away from men's rights, look at a little bit, that's where we're going to open up here through the legal solutions that have been made. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, there is. Okay. And let's not go with this I have in that parliament this much, there's another party that has fiftty figures in Parliament federal, 50% female 50% male. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12545	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12546	This law, so to dissipate the law, we're here for the Anatomy class. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12547	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12548	So here it takes much deeper analysis and much deeper changes to the law, because it simply gives the source, and the chance, and the possibility, besides how we're distributed, to mix. And just one more thing, a miracle, so we didn't say that we have to have at least 50% of women running for mayors in all municipalities. What if there are 300 municipalities in the state then there must be a candidate in at least one party of 150 women.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12549	Please finish Mr. Backović, it's been a minute longer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12550	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12551	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12552	I thank the chairman. Rule 113(2) of the Rules of Procedure states that the House, when it comes to this, is a declaration on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, i.e. the competent commission. Given that Mr. Šepić questioned the credibility of this opinion and the Commission, just to point out that the opinion clearly states that the Commission with 4 votes in favour, 4 votes against and without the abstentions rejected these principles, so I don't know where he read that 1 was abstention. But this confirms that Mr. Novaković was not on the Commission and that's the point of everything, so, I don't know, maybe Mr. Šepić didn't understand something, maybe it was in another language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12553	We're finishing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point eight, ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You weren't the moment I finished, and then you answered. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposer: Members of the Interresor Working Group for the modification of election 67 legislation, MPs: Borjana Krišto, Hazim Rančić and Lazar Prodanović, Law No: 01-02-1032/16, from 04.04.2016 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12556	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think we've been talking about amendments to the Electoral Law for a long time, and most of all about amendments to the Electoral Law on Mostar City. I realized when we formed this Interresor Working Group that it should propose all these amendments and come to a solution based on the Constitutional Court's rulings, the Court of Human Rights, and I proposed to the Interresor Working Group that through the amendments of the Election Law the issue of Srebrenica, since there are judgments of international courts for Srebrenica, and these are judgments for genocide. I cannot understand that in this House we do not have the strength or courage to address the city where genocide has been committed and in such a way to calm the spirits in both the city itself and within Bosnia and Herzegovina, which very often upset the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, disrupt relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you have witnessed that different statements can disrupt relations between the two countries. I am therefore in a dilemma whether or not to vote on any question at all unless the Srebrenica issue is resolved through amendments to the Electoral Law. A country that seeks the EU must respect international regulations, international institutions. I therefore think that both this Parliament and my colleagues should understand and meet with determination what the problem is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I point out only one problem, and I am not running away from solving any problem that conflicts people in this country in any way. Today we have fought here whether we understand each other or whether we understand letters, and we all understand letters, since most of us were born at a time when we taught both Cyrillic and Latin and Serbian, but I am afraid for generations that will sit in this Parliament that currently do not teach Latin, or Cyrillic, or one learn Latin, one Cyrillic, and then we will only have a problem. So as far as I can see and understand all of this, which has been discussed today, and the City of Mostar and all of this, nothing is going to have a qualified majority that we can vote with. It's better to have an election in Mostar City, even if we need another 20 days or a month or two, than if we have the 68 we have. But I also don't think we should close our eyes when it comes to the Srebrenica elections and how to solve this city's issue forever. On the right we have those from the international community and they always write, report, remember the first elections in Srebrenica after the '97 war. In the year, that's when the SDA won the elections in Srebrenica. We knew that it was very difficult at that time for us to rule over fully, er, at that moment all Srbin lived in Srebrenica, the High Representative imposed the Statute where he took away the victory of the SDA. Now shut up, now keep quiet, all of these, though they write for him. So I think I warn them and us both not to close our eyes to a problem that can stir up the spirits in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which can destabilise Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would never suggest solutions where one will rule over another but solutions where people should rule together for the future of every city and this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12557	Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12558	I'm always talking about the complexity of the problem that we have and the complexity of what is ultimately the crucial responsibility of each of us. In this complexity we must find a way how, in what way, why, and thousands of some answers, if we don't objectively get them. What my predecessor, Mr Ahmetović, was talking about, doesn't tang a lot of this law, but it's a reality and it's supposed to tang the law, it should, it shouldn't be in the law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And I'm sorry, so the Interresor group hasn't considered or respected what you've been up to. These are factual conditions, but in the same way you can speak in a lot of space throughout the country. We need to be, people, a little more careful, or we need to be here, as responsible persons, and when it comes to the Law that is before us, about amendments and amendments to the Election Law, we must basically tell ourselves, and through those who are the electoral commission, that we must make a whole change or a whole new Electoral Law. But now he has this "a" he drags behind him and the Constitution. Now, is there any will in these homes that we go towards something called going into fuller, fairer, more honest, fairer, correcter, and now our language is very rich can these about the correctness and integrity of the word two hours after another repeat. Given that we have a little more of these legal solutions today, and we are scheduled to vote for the House of Nations, I don't know how to get out of this wagon, because you're facing legal solutions and bringing in a dilemma of MPs to stand on one side or the other, or third, I suggest you as a College to call the promoters... I have to tell you right away that I had the paper, and when I got the information on the number of surrenders I didn't give up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12561	Denis Bećirović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12562	Given the composition of this Interresor Working Group, the long time frame for work, spent resources, the media pump that followed this Interresor Working Group and the proposal that came before Parliament today, this is a complete debacle. Even what has come in a number of solutions better not have come before the BiH Parliament. And the SDP, therefore, has no dilemma about this, so we'll be against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12563	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12564	I thank the chairman. Well, I'm not going to debate much, but what I feel is that the Committee on Gender Equality has given a negative opinion on this proposal, so we've given for a number of reasons. The first reason this Interresor group worked a long period of time, and it put us in a position to discuss this now on 27 April when we arrived five to twelve. That's one thing. The other thing that was really unacceptable for us is gender equality again, because we think this is a solution offered in this Interresor group is really not a step, but two steps backwards. What is unacceptable to us is the fact that we have proposed that one member of the Commission be a member of the Interresor Commission to be from the Commission for Gender Equality. Of course it's not accepted either. Therefore, these are all the reasons why this Commission has not given a positive opinion. And in the end, I think in this, in this proposal of the Interresor Group, if we take into account the censorship that is set, about 30%, and gender equality as much as the woman in this, we don't see in the elections, the next election by these rules of the game, we don't see that there's going to be more women represented, we even think there's going to be less. Therefore, the Commission had this in mind and had in mind the specificities which were done here that the Mostar theme was not processed in this and that these particulars when it came to some other segments such as Mostar, Sarajevo, etc., etc. were not treated in any other way. So here are the basic reasons why the Commission for Gender Equality gave a negative opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12565	Thank you. Discussion, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12566	I thank the chairman. I'll briefly refer to the amendments I've made to the procedure, the two amendments, and I'd really like to call...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12567	Just to tell you it's not an amendment phase, so we vote in the first reading, and then we open the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12568	Are we going to have a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12569	There's gonna be a debate about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12570	All right, then I'm giving up...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12571	Thank you. I'm closing the debate after the first reading of this Law. So once again, let me explain if it goes through in the first reading we open a debate on amendments that have arrived and we vote in the second reading of the Law. So, please prepare to vote on the Interresor Working Group's proposal in the first reading. Voting results – for 19, against 15, with abstentions 6. There's a general and entity majority, so he passed the bill in the first reading. I'm opening a debate in the amendment phase in the second reading. Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12572	I thank the chairman. So what I just started, uh, I suggested two amendments. So, the first amendment, very simply predicts that the president of the election board cannot be a representative of a political entity. So, according to the current solutions that exist in the BiH Election Law, these solutions clearly prescribe that all members of the election board are representatives of political entities participating in the election unit. So political entities, which are mostly parties, although independent candidates can participate, give their representatives to members of the electoral committees. In most cases, the election committees have five members, one of which is the president,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12573	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12574	of which one is the chairman of the electoral committee. Since you have some 60,000 polling stations on the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina, so multiply it by five, it would be almost impossible for this amendment to apply to everything, so I, all the members of the electoral committees, so I have limited it only to the presidents of the election committees. So, the point of the amendment is that the president of the election board cannot be a representative of a political entity. The amendment further stipulates that the president of the election committee is then elected, instead of being delegated by the political entity president of the election board, it is elected by draw, in secret, of course, from the list of persons who apply for it, and as a condition that they are on the Bureau of Employment in a given municipality. Therefore, this amendment would be somewhat and not entirely, because it is impossible to do so for all members of the electoral board, but to some extent, it would depolitise the role of members of the electoral committees who are now without exception representatives of political entities, in a way that at least the chairman of the electoral board would be appointed after the drawup in which the persons on the Bureau’s record, or employment office in the given municipality can participate. This proposal also respects the principles of solidarity and social sensitivity, and the means to conduct the elections are directed towards all unemployed persons, and not only to representatives of political entities, as is the case now. As far as the second amendment is concerned, I think there has already been an extensive debate and there is no need to explain it in particular. So this second amendment that I'm offering changes what the Interresor Working Group has suggested, that 40% of women can be put anywhere on the list with the exception of the first three positions where one person needs to, therefore, one person less represented sex. So, the proposal of the Interresor Working Group derivates gender equality in relation to existing solutions, and it is my suggestion that this, however, is going towards increasing gender equality, i.e. strengthening gender equality, and that we have lists that are 50%, 50% of each sex, and that candidates and candidates on the lists are orderlyly. I have already explained this officially when I submitted these amendments, when I submitted the amendment proposal, and now I am also asking it once again, for the House to be declared individually, not in the package, according to the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12575	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12576	I don't know what to do with this... Damir, I'd ask you to listen to me if possible, and it's no longer a replica of what you're talking about, but you're simply bringing us into a dilemma whether to vote or not. An instrument to determine that it is not a member of a political party, an instrument. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, I need to know the instrument. Or, given who knows what the electoral process is, how we're going to determine his, real knowledge, it's an electoral process, the law, the conduct of an election process, etc., if he comes from the bureau. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12579	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12580	Here again, of course, to Mr Backović, the absolutely fulfilled provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Backović said political parties, and the amendment is not talking about representatives anywhere, political party members, but representatives of any political entity. Now, if you look closely, so this is a very delicate legal matter, especially from the provisions of attitudes (8), (9), (10) and (11) of this member, these views of that member say that representatives of political entities are appointed to the election committees. Whoever worked in the elections knows this member by heart means political entities after the drawing is conducted to the OIK and the CEC send a list of their representatives. My amendment says I can't do this for the presidents of the election boards, so I can't be representatives of political entities, but to choose from a list of bureaus, employment offices. So, there will be no need at all to determine whether any member of the political party or not, is not the subject of this amendment, but that, as is now the case, at least the president of the election board is a representative of the political entity, but the OIK chooses him independently from these others, these others continue to deliver political parties as they are now delivering. I can't solve it, it's 60,000 times five, without an electronic vote, which is also our proposal, it can't be solved be sure, it's 60,000 polling stations times 5 members of the election board. And now, as we're going to solve, here's the instrument, so that those on the Bureau are not members of the political parties. Well, here in the amendment, it says that people with a minimum qualification of high professional training have an advantage, and now look, it doesn't say he's not a member of a political party anywhere. But I think it can reasonably be concluded that at least the leading political parties are all of their own with high expertise already employed so they're not at the Bureau, so we have at least one instrument.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12581	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12582	I appreciate the explanation, but you haven't removed the dilemmas from my head. I shouldn't be saying everything right now, but the directors of the employment office are directly set up by party will, and they're party people, and they're all over this country. And when they're initiated, they're going to initiate and they're going to be directing, and maybe they're going to expand their electoral base by buying the gullible for one day of the election. And we shouldn't be doing farces, Damir, believe me, experience tells me that manipulations are possible, not possible, but that they're huge. So what you're proposing is actually not going to have a result, but you have to tell me how they're going to apply, they're going to compete, they're going to call a public competition, and they're going to say public competition for a place in the Shirokacaci Society Home No.15, and then the Society Home No.17, and so on, 60,000 of these people at 60,000 polling stations __________________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Six thousand, yes, well, six thousand. Whether the competition will be for those people. Well, you wouldn't, and we need to know that. Yes, this is much more complicated, Damir.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12584	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12585	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12586	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12587	Here, can I give up on this, I'm certainly up for discussion, so I'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12588	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12589	I thank the chairman. A group of MPs from different political parties, here I think they have three parties, has proposed two amendments to Articles 29 and 30 of the amendment and addition of the Electoral Law. Therefore, the amendments are very simple and suggest that both members be deleted, and these members refer to an increase in the internal threshold. By erasing these members, there remains a solution as is now in the law, where the internal threshold is 5%. The reservation is very short and I think to everyone comprehensibly, and that is that the proposed solution represents a step back from the existing solution. We have seen in the amendments there are some other proposals related to the same members, most will define about it, we believe this should be deleted. As for this proposal Mr. Arnaut spoke of, I think he has a good intention, but this is all a little bit tradeable and incomprehensible. If someone who is not politically defined is to be put on the post of election committee president, then it should be clearly framed. In this way it wasn't actually done, because Mr. Arnaut's logic that if someone at the Bureau was not a member of the party safe, because that a party member someone would certainly hire him is something that is unacceptable to me 74 and I don't want to be part of that logic. Therefore, another model should be found for politically undetermined people to be headed by election committees, if that is the proposal. In doing so, arguing that they will have someone who knows the electoral process well at the same time is a little incompatible. On the other hand, let it be from the party but it is from the bureau, so it does not solve what is the essence of the problem of the esteemed counterparts from the NGO sector, which is that this part of the electoral process is often abused by political parties, which I can agree with to some extent. So I support the direction in which you want to go, but a concrete solution really doesn't offer it. And just yet, not wanting to take more time than necessary, to comment on the amendments and our College, as well as colleagues of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, who are going in the same direction, and they refer to the proposed amendment regarding the representation, the equal representation of women on the lists which, by the proposal that entered the procedure, became unbalanced. So, we're going to support this kind of intervention on Article 20, and it seems to me, as well as where the same topic is spoken of on the compensation lists to bring the situation into the original and a little less negative effects that could have arisen about it. And as far as the other amendments are concerned, we'll make a statement about who thinks it's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12590	Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12591	So, Mr. Magazinović, you are well aware that now the presidents, all members of the election committees, including the election board presidents, are representatives of political entities, including the SDP. So, if this amendment of mine is adopted, it will no longer be representatives of political entities, but will be persons on the bureau who will be elected by secret draw. Now whether they are members of political parties or not is absolutely irrelevant. What's most important of all here is that they won't be representatives of their political parties, that's if they adopt. If it is not adopted then we will have everything in the current system, you know it very well within your party, which is that all members of the electoral committees, including the presidents of the election committees, will be representatives of their political parties, that is, if the amendment is not adopted. Because they are named there as representatives under current legislation there are members of the electoral committees, including the presidents of the election boards, directly representatives of these political entities who propose them. And that, that link will now be lifted by this if the amendment is adopted. So these are people who will apply to the OIK, will participate in the secret draw, and the OIK will then appoint them, but not as representatives of political entities, but solely as citizens. And it will pass when it comes to whether, uh, whether or not they will be known about the electoral process, there is a difference, because exactly, they will not pass the SDP Academy for members of the election boards, but will only pass the training of the OIK, and I think in that case they will be much better known by the election committees. And if the current solution remains, then we will still have the presidents of the election committees who passed the SDP Academy to train members of the electoral committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12592	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12593	Comrade Arnaut, you've probably heard today... with proverbs, uh, all trying to through the proverbs explain something. So there's a saying, it's said -- it's not a neck, it's a neck. And there are others, but good thing we're not going in there right now. So they're not party representatives, they're perhaps 75 party representatives, and they're probably party representatives, but we'll pretend they're not party representatives. And they'll go to lots like people who come from the bureau, and you're as good as you were born in Australia, and you haven't been there in a couple of years, so you don't know how it's done in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You don't know anything, and you pretend to know. So, in the right direction, once again, you're thinking but you found the wrong way. Try to find a better way and we'll all support you, so no one's against depoliticalizing that part of the process, but in the way you did it, you're going to go out tomorrow and explain to people how you did it, and you didn't. And it really surprises me, you have really high-speed solutions, but this, this isn't, and I don't know what's going on with you guys, kind of naively, naively getting into this story. I remember you from the time you crashed the April package here in Parliament, you were much more visper, this is kind of naive to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12594	Discussion, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12595	Well, I'm a little sorry not to get into this discussion, try to make a little contribution around this, the last of these discussions, but I'll hold on. So, I've actually seen this story about this, about amendments to the Election Law, as an opportunity to democratisation more, to be more democracy, more transparency, more responsibility because through this story and this approach through the electoral process, we can only paint it on the whole of society, and then, as a society, move a little forward. And I'm not sure that's exactly what we got, but in a few of these, as I was just discussing, in a few specific things we went a few steps back. So here's the short part, so I supported this approach that, when it comes to this, when it comes to the limit for calculating the preferences to at least return it to what we've had so far, and that's a minimum of 5%, so that you don't overexplain it. Therefore, this is particularly important for municipal, cantonal levels where it is necessary to ensure that citizens' representatives are represented as much as possible. So those who had some louder intentions to close the lists through the work of this Interresor Working Group, and even politically, took political positions in front of political parties, when it did not pass in such a way trying to do at least one other part to amend these laws by raising this threshold. I don't think that's the way. And I'm going to quote my colleague, Šefik, when we were discussing, let's say the last time we had this story about the Electoral Law, when the SDP suggested it was great, it means our path should be in a bigger opening, not in closing, not in limiting people to ask themselves as much as possible, to be more involved. And I believe that now, uh, and in this case, we're going to be able to stick to it and that in this way we're going to develop our relationships, because I know that my colleague, Šefik, understands it well and knows it as well as legal, and we're going to defend it politically, let's say, as he did before. I think through this story, if at least we get that back to 5%, we're putting people's faith back in the election process. And the faith of the people in the election process when we return we will restore their faith so that we can move this country faster. And the second amendment, which I would briefly comment on, is a matter of greater transparency. So, I have submitted, I am submitting an amendment in which I propose that the names of all presidents and members, I am not sure that we now have the opportunity to do what Damir was talking about, and my situation as a society, but I think that we can take one step towards some greater transparency and some greater independence of the people who participate in the election committees, which is to support the amendment that I have proposed – that the names of all election committee presidents and members of the election committees, with an indication of the party before whom they are appointed, be made public at the latest within 7 days after those names have been confirmed through the electoral procedure. I think they'd do more than that, those people sitting there more responsible, they'd know in time who these people are who are going to meet them there at these polling stations and anyone who has honest intentions should have nothing against one such approach. And here's a little bit more to say, based on what I was saying at the beginning, we're going to be here today, and I supported it in my first reading, and I supported yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, this approach and what the Interresor Working Group did, so that we might have a chance to, in some way, fix something in that sense. We all witnessed much greater expectations when we created an Interresor Working Group than we have today and, if we speak honestly and the people sitting on the committee, each individual said through the discussion that he himself, personally, personally expected that a much better result would be much more concrete changes than we have today after a year of work. I suggest that immediately after the election, one serious story continues with the amendment of the Election Law, but of course we show more seriousness, and more responsibility, and more willingness to make fundamental changes. And I think that this country really needs fundamental changes, that people in our country are starting to experience more about us politicians that we represent more seriously, more responsible, so more about putting faith in that we can change something fundamentally. Now you have a problem that people are aware that the ones they choose that these people are not really the ones who run the processes in the country and are having a hard time moving. So you have a large number of people who refuse to participate in the election at all. So, let's say, I'm also going to propose one package of measures, but the essential measures for changes in the Electoral Law that I believe I can be, that I can be that good foundation for the whole society to start. This is among other things how the legitimacy of the people sitting here to the end will be restored, and that legitimacy really must be in the citizens, must be in the people, to whom the people give legitimacy, they are the ones who need to lead the processes. So the way in which compensations are arranged should be changed, compensation should also be determined by the people and the people should give priority to certain ones, to those who will be filled with compensation. I also have a solution for that approach. People who are elected to the House of People should also have a certain kind of electoral legitimacy. People sitting in the Council of Ministers and who run the resorts should also be people who will directly propose their policies to the people and citizens, gain legitimacy on them, and then take responsibility and lead this country on the basis of that. Without one such approach, I really don't see that we can take a serious step and that we can respond to what we all swear and it is...determined for this European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12596	Thank you. Vice-President Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12597	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I came out after consulting within the College to say a few sentences and our views regarding this Interresor Working Group Act. First of all, I would like to remind you that at last session of the House of Representatives, when we discussed the Interresor Working Group Report, we adopted some conclusions that, we are counting on within the College, are the obligations of this House, and I guess we ourselves should, first of all, respect what we have adopted as conclusions. And next, the three people who run this House, we have proposed three amendments that fully respect what this House adopted in the last session as a conclusion. And I invite you to respect yourself and respect what we have voted for as our commitment. So I suggest 77 adopt these amendments to the College because they are on track for what we said earlier, not including, of course, the right to propose to people, but there are some order of moves, there are some rules of conduct that we all need to respect together. There are also some amendments that concern not only these three amendments, which are treated by the amendments to the College, but above all they concern the election committees and some amendments concerning the schedules on the confiscation list. I would ask anyone who has proposed an amendment relating to Article 4, 24, Article 24 of this Act, Article 4 and 24. The electoral law, which calls for Articles 4 and 19, does this amendment actually bring down any solution that has gone, Interresor working groups that have gone a step forward in relation to the existing Electoral Law. I don't know, so we're going to vote on it, because that's something that isn't covered through these three amendments, but I call, therefore, the promoters, I think of Mr. Isaković and Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, yes, because they have proposed these amendments, see if what they suggest is worse than the less represented sex, or to stay the way the Interresor Working Group wrote it. As for me, then, I will support today and I want to say it here publicly, only amendments to the House of Representatives' College and none more, because it reflects what this House has concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12598	Thank you. We conclude the discussion in the second reading and move on to the vote on amendments. Do you need a break? [[Common discussion]] So, first we vote on Amendment I, II and III of MPs Mladen Bosić, Borjana Krišto and Šefik Džaferović. Prepare to vote. So, for 23, against six, abstentions 11. There's a general majority and there's an entity majority. Federation for 15, Republika Srpska for 8, v – Federation 6, Republika Srpska 0, abstention – Federation 7, Republika Srpska 4 and no two from Republika Srpska are present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12601	That's what the Rules of Procedure says. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12602	What's the matter, Šepiću?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12603	Nothing. Keep going. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12604	Please don't, uh, hang up. So this is how Amendment II's proposal of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut is not, has already been processed by this amendment. We will vote on the amendment to the Damir Arnaut, which does not apply to this solution. Prepare to vote. So, in 5, versus 22, abstention 13. There is no general majority and the amendment has not been adopted. The amendment and MP Mirsad Isaković's proposal is already covered by this solution adopted by Glasamo now on the proposal of Amendment II of Ambassador Mirsad Isaković. Prepare to vote. Voting results - 7. versus 18, abstention 15. There is no general majority and the amendment has not been adopted. [[/Common discussion of the College.]] Amendment I Senad Šepić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Salko Sokolović and Sadik Ahmetović's proposal is already covered by this previous vote, so we will not vote on it. 79 Amendments and MPs Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil is already covered by an earlier solution and we will not vote on it, but we are now voting on the amendment of Amendment II to the Parliament of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12606	We voted on him when we voted on this up there, that's the same thing as proposed, so it's groundless. We refused Isaacovic's amendment and he's like another Isaacovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12607	What do we do now?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12608	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12609	Good – for 14, v. 18, abstention 8. The general majority doesn't have one, so the amendment didn't go through. We vote on the amendment and the MP Senad Šepić. [[Common discussion]] I'm sorry, what's the matter, you're asking for a repeat vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12611	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12612	So, we're talking about amandman Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, Amendment number II. We repeat the vote on amandman II of the Maya Maja-Gasal-Vražalica. For 14, versus 21, abstention 5. No general majority, no amendment accepted. We vote on the amendment and the MP Senad Šepić. Please prepare for the vote. Voting results - 11 against 18, abstention 11. There is no general majority, the amandman is not accepted. We are now voting on the draft law in the second reading with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12613	- Amen.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12614	Amendment, three amendments. For 23, versus 13, abstention four. 80 There is a general majority and an entity majority, so we passed the Law on Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law. And now please listen to me. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12621	I thank the chairman. So, the Commission for Gender Equality has referred this law which unfortunately has been in the process for three months now, but here it is... And unlike the previous law in this 82 law, we have a positive opinion of this Law. What is interesting, so I would remind you, given that the public debate was not concluded last time, so I would remind you only of the reasons why we referred this Law to the procedure, because the Law on Gender Equality, Article 20, says 40% should be represented, paraphrased, the representation of a less represented sex in all... legislative and executive authorities. We have noticed, therefore, that the Council of Ministers has no representation which is in accordance with the Law, but I must remind myself that before, this, the constitution of the Council of Ministers has been directed to all parliamentary parties, because we did not know which coalition would then be to take care of this Law. But it happened that, really, uh, this Council of Ministers is just two women, is it, only two women in... Council of Ministers. And now we're coming into one position that even lower levels of government have looked up to the highest organs and so we've come to a situation that individual cantons, therefore, didn't even have one woman in their governments. What is important for us is that this Law enters into force since 2018, that the Assembly will, this time, take care of the appointment, or confirmation, of this, of the Council of Ministers if there are not enough women represented. So, uh, I thank the Council of Ministers for their positive opinion and all those bodies that, and the commissions, have given a positive opinion. Thank you very much. Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12622	Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12623	I thank the chairman. I really appreciate the good intentions of the promoter to come to some kind of equality and in the executive government, because it's obvious that we have a problem, we have a problem at all levels of executive power. However, we will give this law a chance on condition that it will be corrected in the amendment phase, because the provision that the House of Representatives will refuse to confirm the appointment of a Council of Ministers which does not reflect gender equality is very discriminatory for me from the point of view of constitutionality. Then, in any law under this principle, we could also put a provision – the House of Representatives will never change this Law again. So this provision is really controversial to me and I'm asking you to find some other way, whether this one, whether to get out completely, whether to formulate in a more acceptable way, but means depending on the amendment, in the first reading, we're going to have no problem supporting it, and in the second reading, we expect this amendment to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12624	Thank you. We've got Damir Arnaut, a misstatement.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12625	Thank you. Well, you see, I can definitely confirm that it will be fixed. I had the same reaction when I saw the bill's proposal, I think the Commission staff wrote this very clumsyly and these standards never set themselves like this. The most elegant way to do this is to say – the vijaće Minister's chairman will not deliver a list containing less than 40% of the gender, etc., but has several options. In any case, they will be repaired, so they reflect 83 not only something that is possible, but also something that is common in similar legal solutions, so it certainly won't be a problem. I had the same reaction when I first saw it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12626	Discussion, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12627	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to say a few words about this law. So this is, as it is seen, only applies to the Council of Ministers, meaning 9 ministers and the chairman, a total of 10 seats in the executive power are covered. As Bosnia and Herzegovina is known, there are 74 institutions. What's this state of ours about gender equality, if we're here, if we're scratching the surface again? And then we bury on the surface and then we maximalize 40 percent. Quotas have allowed women in the legislative authority to see and hear more, quotas must also help women to come to the positions of the executive authority. But I really think 40% of it is completely memorized, with no analysis whatsoever. Why say the three ministers of the three nations wouldn't be in the Council of Ministers, is that not a measure? Which means 40%, do you think some party, that it's going to be from some people, that instead of three, it's going to be four. He can't. So I think this 40% should change to 30%. Also this point 4. The House of Representatives will refuse to confirm the appointment, so when the Council of Ministers is appointed, all the legal provisions that regulate it are taken into account. Just because, say, if the law was passed with 30%, as soon as 30% is not met, there's no basis for appointing. You don't have to write that, you don't have to write that, because it doesn't meet the terms of the appointment. And in the end, I'm really interested in more than this, so I have to support it, I think that you should support it in the first reading, change what needs to be changed, what I was talking about, and now the question is what with the other 74 institutions, the rest of these institutions that aren't covered here. How did we expect to solve this, because it's not a complete solution. We can believe that the passage of this Law would only pave the way for other levels of executive power, the administrative organisation of the Council of Ministers and other bodies to introduce this gender equality in which women would have the chance to be represented more than they are now. So I think the law should be supported in principles, but in this phase two, it should change these things that I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12628	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote by Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12629	Here, I only wanted Mrs. Majkić's colleague to have the Law on Gender Equality, which has been in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 2009, set out in his Article 20, that all bodies, state bodies at all levels, including local self-government, must reflect the representation of less-represented sex 40%. An analysis of the state of gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina is something that has been missing for many years, i.e. since the adoption of the law, so when there is a debate, is there, too, a Council of Ministers report there also shows that no one has bothered within their institutions to make an analysis or to give some statistics on less-represented gender representation. That's what I'll talk about when that agenda comes up. So, Mrs. Majkić, we have 84 here in this building had several of these ad hoc or temporary appointment committees, so where we had, is, at any point, a list of the best candidates that didn't reflect at any point 40% of the less represented sex, so when some of us pointed out that even though there were three best candidates, there were no women, is it possible that she couldn't have been within three of those candidates as a choice to be appointed to an institution, then you didn't advertised yourself, you didn't consider it appropriate. Therefore, there is already a legal measure that all institutions should finally, in fact, start to respect, respect the Law on Gender Equality. That's not the case, unfortunately. So this proposal, or the Committee on Gender Equality, absolutely solves something, is whether what should be done in the first reading. The amandmanski of course can be resolved this controversial part, but this proposal would solve the executive power that reflects the state that we currently have only two ministers in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12630	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12631	Well, a part of this has already been answered by Miss Maja. However, I would remind you of the Law on Gender Equality, Miss Majkić, you voted for it, I mean in the past term, right. And he, a colleague just said, in article 20, he says 40% should... But the problem is, the law doesn't respect anyone. So we don't have a mechanism to make someone respect that law. It is said that in 153 ministers, therefore, you have only 21 and 22 females, respectively, and 14.9%. So, total non-representation. You can't, we couldn't force it, there's no mechanism to force someone to respect that law. This is the way we wanted to do it. Of course, I recognize your good intentions. And what I'd like to say is that we're going to try to solve it in this, is, in the second part, in the second part of the reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12632	Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12633	My Koleginica Majo, I don't think you should explain to me and convince me, so I was one of those actors who worked on the Gender Equality Act, but what I never had enough strength for, and I didn't have enough strength because it didn't take most of us to make a choice for that kind of thing, to make a real woman a lot more. So, if there had never been strangers, and if that famous OSCE rule had never been passed on 7.50, it seems to me if memory serves, never the number of women in Parliament would have been as large, nor would they have been deployed on the lists as they are, ever. It was Step by Step, we didn't, we can't make it 30% in Parliament even though we have the possibility of 40% being us, but we can't make it happen. For executive power in countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina is far more difficult, in such societies lionish men fight to leave a place in executive power. No one's gonna let that happen, starting with the party leaders and all that. So we can't get it, I'm just fragmenting now. Let's try to be more modest, maybe we'll get more. If we go to 40% we're going to bring down the law, there's no way we're going to get it, so I thought maybe the parties would decide to give one place of three from one nation. But wait, for the rest of you really, I'm just saying... I have no reason to... so be. So let's see if we're real, to be more realistic.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12634	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12635	What the esteemed colleague Majkić said to be practical, there is another problem here. You know, dear colleague, I mean, I really appreciate it, I don't have a good intention, but the Council of Ministers and Ministers are in Sarajevo, all of our parties are coming and we're all coming from different parts of this country. You know what the problem is, to us,... and SNSD had this problem, the problem of finding a man minister who would come from Banja Luka that 36 weeks a year every day would be separated from his family and change the place of his stay, without talking about women who would come, I don't know, from Bijeljina, leave their family, simply life makes them not able to. And we can't make some kind of emergency solution, because people are, here we have Mrs. Ana Trišić-Babić-Babić, the deputy minister, who somehow succeeded... but I can't, it's hard to leave family, children, all obligations and come and live apart from her family. There are few women who can really accept it, and I'm afraid we can make problems by fixing these percentages. I believe that this is a problem with others, and it's hard for someone from Bihaq to leave his family and come to Sarajevo. ...that's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12636	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12637	Tonight, we've had a very timid, very good time. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You're damn right you're wrong, my friend, look at it, get it together, and you'll see it's over now than I've had to react. What I was saying to Maja about the full amendments to the law, it's the only solution, the only one, because I don't see why you didn't write here and that of three members of the Presidency at least one must be a woman. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12641	Damir Arnaut, a misstatement.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12642	So I really listen a few times, uh, literally wrong allegations. So the debate here is whether to introduce a 40% quota into the Council of Ministers or not, and everyone forgets or doesn't know that quota was introduced more than 7-8 years ago, right? So, the quota exists, there is a legal, just a little bit, there is a legal obligation in the Law on Gender Equality states that the Council of Ministers has 40% of members of the less-represented sex at all times. And what doesn't exist? There is no implementing mechanism. So you have the law, you have a legal obligation but there is no sanctions, there is no possibility of implementing that law, and this is being corrected. Now, argument, if I get it right, it's not that that Law on Gender Equality is changing, to abolish that provision, is it, the argument is – let's not adopt an implementing mechanism, don't adopt something that will make us respect the law. And it's very interesting that this agenda point is just before the agenda point at which the argument right now is going to be let's lift the implementation mechanism for decisions of the Constitutional Court. So here we are now going in the direction of Parliament, i.e. we have an argument as Parliament that where we have a legal obligation, and there is no enforcement mechanism we should not adopt an implementing mechanism, and at the next point... similar to that will be – eh, here we have a legal obligation to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we have an implementing mechanism, or sanctions, let's abolish those sanctions, let's abolish the implementation mechanism. So it's really incomprehensible to me, and it's absolutely, so it's wrong to suggest that something is being introduced here. So the quotas were introduced a long time ago, the quota specifically for the Council of Ministers was introduced, and I'm really speaking from a legal point of view, so the quota exists, there's a legal obligation, there's no sanctions, there's no implementing mechanism, so the debate here was supposed to be in that direction, not whether there's something to be introduced or not because it's been introduced long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12643	So we started working officially around 10:00, and at 9:00 we came here on various commissions, and this way of working and this pace won't let us finish the session tonight. We propose that it be done by 19 hours, that we then adopt the conclusion that we should vote on those points 87 that have been completed and that session 11 continue in the time when the next session of Parliament is scheduled. Unfortunately, I don't think I can take away any word from the MPs in the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me that MPs should also control the length of their performances. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I know it's workday tomorrow, it's all that, we all do it, it's all right, I'm just saying about it, we can't work till 11:00 a.m. because every dot shows up 20 times a couple of people. Therefore, it will be so. The next Mensura Beganović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12645	I thank the chairman. I answer for the first time, greet everyone present. I wanted to rephrase to our colleague Zaimović at that women's finding they don't vote for women. _________(?) Zaim Backović Zaim Backović, I'm sorry, Zaim Backović, does not vote for women at that women's finding. I agree with that, but this is about the executive authority where the appointment is decided by men and not women. So it's kind of a different thing. And I wish we could find a mechanism to really do it because we passed the law, and this Parliament if it adopts a law that isn't implemented I don't see why such a law. I had an opportunity in committees, in ad hoc commissions where we chose members of the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency where I intervened several times, even in this House, why neither of these proposals could find a woman as a proposal supported by both Parliament and commission, but unfortunately I failed. Generally, we have a law that speaks of a quota of up to 40% of women... to the executive authority but at least where we can control what women are named in certain positions we don't even carry out. So it would really support this proposal to discuss a mechanism that will meet the legal requirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12647	Thank you. Correction of the false quote, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12648	My colleague Backović mentions the quality of women, so I wanted to ask how it is that we always question whether we have quality or less quality women, and men are immediately quality at birth, and you never question the quality of men. And when you take only who is present from the members and members of the Council of Ministers, you will see that almost one woman always sits alone and reflects the entire quorum of the Council of Ministers. On the other hand... 88 _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ It doesn't matter which party. On the other hand, working in Sarajevo because Parliament and the legislative body are in Sarajevo, so I would disagree with my colleague Pandurević to make a difficult decision, because women working with privates and other institutions also rarely have working hours, rarely when they respect working hours, are also separated from their families and children, and yet it is not up to us from this position to decide whether these women should be denied or given the right to run for office and to be appointed to certain positions for the sake of family life. A mechanism should be created, a system solution that would allow us to participate equally, both in the legislative and executive authorities. And my colleague Backović once again reminds you that the Law on Gender Equality, Article 20, is absolutely prescribed and that in the Presidency and that in all legislative bodies there are men and women sitting equally, respecting the 40% quota. A mechanism was created, a measure that helped this composition of the College of the House of Representatives to have one woman in its composition because it voted to amend the business provision in order to respect the Law on Gender Equality. And while we in our College have one woman at the House of Peoples who doesn't care absolutely about the Law on Gender Equality, there are still three musketeers in that system without any woman even though they have two available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12650	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12651	Dear colleagues, you're completely misreading, or you're thinking on my behalf. And it's not right. So you're interpreting what I'm potentially thinking. Yeah, I'm for full equality, and when I said it came to terms, I didn't end up saying it, and don't tell me now that 50 countries that when they had a woman at the head have become very strong, very strong and very neat. That's what I'm talking about. We have a problem we won't accept, a problem... heritage, cultural heritage, we're not Norway, nor are we Sweden, nor are we, and not to count. We have to accept, and that's what's still Roman law, here's Arnaut, who defined that traditional law is in the middle of above all rights. That's the problem. So you have when your daughter wants to run for office, your parents want to kill themselves, and there's no way, so talk, well, no way. You have when it's due to be appointed minister's husband says it's not a problem, you go to Sarajevo, but from that moment on, you're not my wife anymore. Well, that's what you're looking at. We need to talk about everything. That's why I said the legal framework exists, and you just said it, Maja said 40%, just tell me who. I'm in favour, and I didn't say women are most of the voting bodies in this country, most of them, they can easily point, or all of this to the tubes to turn. But why don't they do it? So we have to focus in both our discussions and when the laws are and when they are, not every Semiha Borovac, I hope that Semih doesn't take this the wrong way, because I know the way she...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12652	Mr. Backović, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12653	I'm running out of time every time...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12654	I keep telling you that every time you run out of time. We're finishing the debate on this agenda point. We're going to the 13th point of the day, to the 12th, sorry, agenda point, Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs from SNSD and SDS, Law No: 01,02-02-1-27/15, of 11/01/2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the PSBiH House At the 24th session of the House, held on 03.02.2016, no negative opinion of the competent Commission on the principles of the draft law and compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina was accepted, and the Commission was tasked, in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, to draw up a new Opinion on the proposed Law. The Constitutional Commission has asked the College of the House of Representatives to extend the deadline for submission of opinions until the BiH Council of Ministers delivers its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal. On 13 April 2016, the Council of Ministers delivered its Opinion on the Bill on the Amendment of the Criminal Law of BiH. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 26 April 2016. The Commission did not agree with the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system and did not accept the principles of the bill. Unless a negative opinion by the Commission is adopted, the legislative procedure in accordance with Article 113 shall be suspended. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Practically according to the Rules of Procedure, however the vote is held, the procedure under this Bill proposal is suspended, which is for the second time in the procedure in this House. Essentially at this stage is already certain that the Law has been rejected. Here you go. If there's no one I'd just like to inform you that you've received a proposal for a conclusion signed by three members of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12656	Next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12657	Next is, yeah, yeah, okay. Here you go. There's no debate. Moving to the next 13th point, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs from SNSD and SDS clubs, Law No: 01,02-02-1-28/15, of 11 January 2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the PSBiH House At the 24th session of the House, held on 03.02.2016, no negative opinion of the competent Commission on the principles of the draft law and compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina was accepted, and the Commission was tasked, in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, to draw up a new Opinion on the proposed Law. The Constitutional Commission has asked the College of the House of Representatives to extend the deadline for submission of opinions until the BiH Council of Ministers delivers its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal. The Council of Ministers delivered its Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH on 21 April 2016. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 26 April 2016. The Commission did not agree with the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system and did not accept the principles of the bill. Unless a negative opinion by the Commission is adopted, the legislative procedure in accordance with Article 113 shall be suspended. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So, the same situation as the previous law. Denis Bećirović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12659	I will not discuss the content of this Law again today, since I spoke about it during the previous debate, but, as you said, the College of the House has offered us a concrete conclusion on this 13th item of the agenda. The conclusion you've offered us is too serious, perhaps one of the most important things we're going to say today. I can understand the first one to be signed in this conclusion, my colleague Bosić, I understand his position, circumstances, reasons, motives, why he signed this, but I don't think he made a good move. That's what I'm thinking for the following reasons. First, I'm afraid that this conclusion will not solve the problem of destructive factors in this country that, even if you adopt this, will require excuses for a new one to create destruction, and secondly, I am deeply convinced that this is not an approach to a good solution to an important constitutional issue like this. So, in this conclusion, we are offered a conclusion relating to Article VI of the Constitution of BiH and the establishment of an interresor working group that would deal with this Article VI, but I would like to say responsibly that the issue of an external factor is not only a question of Article VI of the Constitution, it is appropriately contained in Article II of the Constitution, in Article III of the Constitution, in Article VII of the Constitution, in Article IX of the Constitution, that I am not talking about a complete Framework Agreement. And why right now, Article VI, what's so in Article VI to take the tweezer out of the whole package exactly that question? The external factor is an integral part of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I'm convinced we need full access to these questions. I don't think we can talk about it selectively, fragmentally, partially. After all, who has the right to open the issue of an external factor in the country's constitutional justice system selectively? I am afraid this could be a way to weaken the influence of the European Court of Human Rights and the EU, and there are a lot of external factors that are, in one way or another, involved in the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore propose as a contrast to this conclusion of yours, and I have delivered it in writing, so the conclusion that we form an interreson working group and that, in accordance with Article II of the Constitution, Article 2 of the Constitution, we form an interresor working group that will determine what everything needs to be changed and complemented in the constitutional justice system of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to ensure that the rights and freedoms laid down in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in its protocols, apply directly in Bosnia and Herzegovina and have priority over any other law. I remind you, what the College has proposed to form an inter-resor working group in the Constitution for this Article VI states: 'can', the word 'can'. What I suggest is not in the Constitution treated with "can", 91 is treated as "must", "commanded" and something that is a priority". I expect, therefore, that with all due respect and respect for some of the other circumstances that I assume motivated you when you suggested this, you should stop, and that these MPs today would not accept, and that we should accept something that is an integral part of the Constitution of this country and start working on implementing the provisions that should have been implemented so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12660	Correction of the wrong allegation, deputy chairman Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12661	Mr Becirović, the European Convention is above the Constitution of BiH, and if it is in collegiate with the Constitution it is directly applied in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we do not need any inter-resor working groups to question it, it writes and it is so clear. And don't worry about it at all, I take great care when I make a suggestion and I put my signature under a proposal. So don't at all doubt that I've thought through everything in this document. And I would ask that when you're talking and trying to politicize this thing, then at least make all the facts the way they are. Article VI item 1 d) The Constitution of BiH states: "Five years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Parliamentary Assembly can by its law, therefore, provide for a different way of selecting the three judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH who are elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights with consultations with the Presidency of BiH." I say all the time as it appears, and this law says, this is already several times the laws in the parliamentary procedure, and especially this time, that foreign judges in the Constitutional Court of BiH are part of the Dayton arrangement and that they are being established so-called. Dayton balance and that it is not possible to only talk about the exclusion of foreign judges from the constitutional court structure without talking about other things that do this balance, which are a complex organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, different levels of government, different competences, different ways and difficult ways of making decisions. But we have an obligation under the Constitution to analyze this matter, so says Article VI, how will we see it? I am motivated to make this conclusion exactly as it says in the conclusion that everything needs to be changed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional justice system in order to change the way judges of the BiH Constitutional Court are elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. So the task is to determine what needs to be changed. If you want me to hold a letter for you now on what is necessary, I can do so, but let it be done by the members of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly in that group and by the judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH. What a decision it will be and what further we will do I cannot speak at this time, but what I can tell you is, based on what I have seen so far, that the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public will then be known and will be whiteishly clear what the judges of the BiH Constitutional Court are proposing and appointed by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. Running away from it and not having a discussion, I don't think it's right, I think it's totally okay to have a discussion about it. So, Mr. Bećirović, you can, of course, use this for your party needs, your personal needs, but believe me, I'm not afraid of it, and I'm ready at all times to stand behind what I signed. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12662	Thank you. 92 Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12663	I'm just going to clarify my colleague's notion of a destructive factor, which he mentioned, and the rest of it, of course, I have no intention of discussing. Well, the destructive factor is two clubs here that have 13 MPs, so then this fellow Jovan was in one of the two clubs that signed this law. So if that's the destructive factor he's talking about, then here it is, these are Members of the 14th, 13 MPs from Republika Srpska. The destructive factor is all the political parties that have MPs, according to him, that have MPs in the National Assembly, who have signed the agreement, I am talking about those who have signed the agreement, on the basis of which this proposal has arisen both the Criminal Law and the Constitutional Court. And that I wouldn't go on now, because I could go where I don't want to go, and where other colleagues probably don't want us to go, then I'm gonna stop here and end up with what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12664	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12665	My correction concerns, first of all, the presentation of colleagues by Džaferović, and only one sentence before that regarding the presentation of counterpart Novaković. So, I did not accidentally say at the beginning of this discussion that I understood the position and circumstances of my colleague Mladen Bosić, and when I spoke within this item of the agenda, I did not, colleague Novaković, in this case mean 13 MPs from one entity, but rather one person from one entity that is not difficult to recognize. My colleague Džaferović, in one part of us agree, I want to explain the part in which we disagree. So first, the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms is not being implemented, and I believe that you too agree with that fact, and this can be a special topic in this Parliament, and I could also now hold the letter for an hour only on that subject. But let's just say it's not a date. Secondly, this is no politicizing. Why would legitimate questioning of certain things be politicizing, and all that comes from ruling structures like not politicizing. This is a legal debate where we exchange arguments. Thirdly, it is true that it stands in the Constitution of provisions that it can. It can't mean it has to. You well, like me, know what the motives of individual people are and why the entire mandate has been almost passed, and this one has insisted on the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. I'm afraid, and that's what I said in my first statement, that this is a great concession of yours, but it won't have any results. I'm afraid this is the opening of dangerous things, the introduction to some big debate without a whole package, because in this conclusion, it's not being fully spoken, but it's being said to focus exclusively, is it, on Article VI of the Constitution, and I have specified it precisely and can explain it further in detail what it says in other members of the BiH Constitution where it mentions this external factor. So, this is no escape from the debate, personally as an MP, and I took part actively during the debate on both law and law, I have proposed conclusions, and I am not afraid that we are also exchanging on this subject arguments, but I'm afraid what can be the consequence of our partial intrusion into these things. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12666	Vice-President Šefik Džaferović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12667	Mr Bećirović, therefore, is the commission's task, in which the Constitutional Court judges, too, are to re-establish, what is needed to change in the constitutional system of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to diversify the way the three judges are elected. And I'm asking you to understand it that way. And you're politicizing Mr. Bećirović, and it's not going to work, and I have enough power to keep this kind of dialogue, no matter what you use and what this might look like to you, but believe that the public isn't naive, that the public understands what it is, and so you won't get away with it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12668	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12669	You know what, my colleague Džaferović, I'm not going to tell you anymore that you're politicizing, I just don't need to use any hard words, I'm going to stick to arguments, and if you think that this, these disqualifications of this guy, they bring you any good is no problem at all, keep going. I have no problem with the first part of that sentence, but I have a problem with this conclusion because it goes on to say -- to predict a different way of choosing the three judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, elected by the presidents of the European Court of Human Rights. My proposal is, and I call on you to support this proposal of my conclusion, to fully approach this issue, not to make a concession on these things, because you can be sure that Mr. Milorad Dodik will not stop after this, he will find a new excuse, and we will enter into something that we ourselves don't know what we're going to get into.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12670	Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12671	So basically we have here to discuss or discuss one sentence that's complicated, and then we have a little bit of an explanation, and in that complex sentence we have three, three times. One speaks of what he will see, what might change the existing Constitution, and then we come to something that we cannot change, which is the first member of our Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights. We can't, she's what's part of it and she's from letter to letter as she writes there, but she's not being implemented. Well, we can change it for her to have a good time. If I have to list now where everything isn't implemented I need to be here all day, from retroactive law enforcement and beyond, so we can talk about everything, to individual cases, and then what in the structure after the first member of the Constitution needs to change in order for this country to get the incentive to move forward. It's not just a change in the part that applies to the judges of the Constitutional Court, there are dozens of things that have lifted the hand brake in this country, so we can't actually function. We can't. I've listed and listed here several examples of what happens in business, how many energoinvests we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, how many of these we have, how many of these we have, and the companies in the tender are facing the same name and last name and as such, as unserious declines. It's something nobody here wants to talk about. So I initiated and asked for a single register at the state level, he says -- it's in entity jurisdiction, which is amazing, and 94 you want to get out of this country's borders. Just a record, I'm talking about a record to eliminate the possibility of duplication, duality, that's a tiny example. This, the judges of the Constitutional Court, the experience we have from wartime to war years to today, as much as I have a tendency to in the vast majority of those who come to us are essentially far below us in every sense, and in education, so I cited an example of a legal advisor who was here, who was tattooed from the door and complete, what was tattooed is his right, but he also came by accident as a taxi driver and said, well, there he was in Bosnia, from the UN, because he told him that the lawyer who lost his license in America, and he was sent here as a legal expert. And so on. So I'm for us to take fate into our own hands, and I know the name of this legal expert, and I know the great one, to take it into my own hands. But in order to take our consciousness into our own hands, it must be so that we do not think ethno-nationally, ethno-religiously, territorially, but rather think for the citizens of this country. That's why it's a terrible danger if this is directed, and I'm not talking against either one of you, but I don't agree that you only mention one thing, this would be great if you were without that arrow pointing towards the Constitutional Court. And so what judge we have there, excluding strangers... I don't know who they are, I don't know, no one's gonna tell me that the others aren't still in the form of a political appointment, not a professional and that politics has no influence on them. There is. If you'd be...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12672	Mr. Backović, your time is up again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12673	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12674	Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12675	I've said enough, thank you. True, discussions on these topics are very short, really, because this is a very complex problem that is lifelike.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12676	Yes, I agree, but midnight is coming. So, the discussion of Dušanka, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12677	So, to end this prey.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12678	Come on, please, a little quiet. Mr. Šepić, can we?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12679	I wonder why we don't actually say openly what we wanted to offer this conclusion. So, the question is for Mr. Bosić as one of the political parties who signed this bill(?). I was convinced that both SNSD and SDS alike wanted this issue to be resolved, and in no way threatened by the rights of any of the people. And when I saw 95 of this, especially when I saw the signatories, it meant the Kolegijum, the representatives of the Serb people, in no way fit to keep the situation the way it is, which means that three foreigners and two Bošnjak, who are former members of a political party, make decisions. It does not correspond to the representatives of the Croatian people, but I do not understand why it was signed, because all decisions made by the Constitutional Court so far have been made by the revote of representatives of the Constitutional Court in the order of the Serbian and Croatian people. What did we want? Let's do an inter-resor working group that's got such a fluid task that it doesn't actually decide anything and that's what we're doing here, so we're dealing with something for a while, and then, since it's known that one of the signatories will never give up on one people being more equal than the other two, nothing will ever happen. So I assume that you have managed to provide in the College this kind of consent that one benign conclusion, which serves nothing and does not mean anything, to bring, to offer, but that it is clear to us that we cannot expect anything from it. It is not correct, it is better to say – there is no readiness. And the policy that's ready to go out and say, and we've always been ready to go out and say, there's no willingness to decide at this point, is a much more correct attitude than to make a variety of arguments that don't serve anything and make no commitment. So, I'm, we didn't think we were looking for anything that's against the other two peoples, if, if the same number of judges in the Constitutional Court of all three nations, isn't that, even though we bring it all in, isn't it the strength of the institution and the strengthening of the work of the Constitutional Court of BiH. Doesn't European partnership and the way to Europe oblige us to strengthen our domestic institutions as well. And we're not doing anything on that plan, but we're holding on to an old found state, with which we can't go anywhere, deep buried everyone in our position. So, it's clear to me, the only thing I understand here is Mr. Džaferović, because he has every reason on his side to keep his condition as it is, but indeed you too, Mr. Bosić and Mrs. Borjana Krišto, I didn't expect them to put a signature on this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12680	Thank you. dom Speaker Mr. Mladen Bosić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12681	It is interesting that you have completely diametrically different views on who is responsible for this situation, Mr. Bećirović and you, Mrs. Majkić. So, Mr. Bećirović blames Mr. Džaferović for having committed some sin, you blame me, only from different positions you look at the problem. What's the alternative, what's the alternative, how do you come up with a solution if you don't open up the issues that are the problem? Do you have any idea how to handle things without going into conversation and trying to come up with a solution? Here, the situation was similar with the laws and working group on Mostar. People tried to do, I believe that all members of the task force from all parties had a desire to come to a solution. They didn't make it this time. So I believe maybe in a month's time, all this stuff they did might open the door to make a deal and that we end up here relatively fast the Law of Elections in Mostar. I don't see another time, maybe someone sees, maybe you see, except for the opening of the question, this is a question defined in the BiH Constitution, in the Constitution that was adopted in Dayton, where a conversation can be opened exactly after 5 years. It's been, not five years, and we're proposing to open the conversation by trying to convince each other to come up with some solution that will be acceptable to everyone. So our goal is to be an acceptable solution, whatever it is, about everything in 96 Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there is no other way if it is not acceptable for everyone. Now, that is, that was our motive for even talking about why we should only propose the formation of a group that will discuss a constitutional provision that already defines that we should open talks and try, or see if there is a willingness to solve a single question. I don't want to get into a situation around the Constitutional Court. So, the Constitutional Court is very often a source of political abuses, but it's not a subject, it exists like this in Dayton, it's legal, unfortunately it doesn't make legal decisions, it doesn't mix up very often in things that are not in its jurisdiction, but I don't guarantee you even when it's domestic judges that everything is going to be legal and everything is ideal. Our goal is to try and talk, and to talk publicly, about the problems that exist. I don't see why it would bother anyone, why someone sees in this disaster and ruin that we as different sides, with different views, will open up a question and talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12682	Thank you, Mr. Bosić. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12683	In a way, therefore, Mrs. Majkić, so with all due respect, I am willing to personally, and I think the Club, to participate in this story and I'm sure this is not a good solution that is in force, but you said, therefore, that we are offered equality. That's not so, then. The way this amendment is intended, or the law that you have proposed to choose, is proposed by the House of Representatives to us, does not bring us into an equal position, if you will about the Hrvat. There was also a dispute over how this issue was resolved by some other act of choice. So we're for that kind of story, and the only way we can get to it is if, as Mr. Bosić says, we open up to see where our obstacles are. We agree that we should appoint judges, we agree with everything you've said, but so that's not our solution right now. And we first, for the first time, supported the constitutional basis that it did, but we didn't accept the principles because they weren't acceptable to us, so. However, we could not act on this because it is now so regulated who is proposing members of the Constitutional Court, as they are elected. So that doesn't bring us into an even position and we're ready to solve it when we see where all these obstacles exist and to remove them. And to Mr. Backović, although it's not the first time, I didn't mean to get up, but when I got up, so I don't know what's wrong with ethno-religious thinking and one-national thinking, I don't know what's wrong with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12684	Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12685	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I think that based on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which relate to the 9th of January in Republika Srpska, we clearly defined our political path to ask that, regardless of the various political views and the Alliance for Change and the SNSD, we use, let me say, one vote here in Sarajevo and try to find the best possible solution, respecting the complete system and decision-making process. It was our legitimate right, we had a Banja Luka Agreement where all the leaders of the political parties signed that it was necessary to work on this road the way we've done it 97 these few months. Now if we've all been involved in the same intensity, that time will show. I'm not sure this is the right way to get through the formulation of this conclusion in the House of Representatives we'll get out of this move. I'm not sure. The SNSD will not support this conclusion either, nor will it support Mr Denis Bećirović's conclusion, believing that we have the right to express our several ambiguities in the formulation and content of this conclusion. We think that there are some very dangerous things hiding here, and I think that only such dangerous intentions can we resist if we define all together in Banja Luka. And that's the answer to what the alternative is. I'm not sure that, nor that this is an alternative, we should look for an alternative in Republika Srpska. I think this is not the way to define this as an alternative to political misunderstanding with all those who are sitting in the House of Representatives today, i.e. representatives of the Bosniak and Croatian people, because this has been demonstrated several times through the Council of Ministers of Certain Decisions and through the work of the Constitutional Commission. For this reason, we do not need to support this kind of proposal conclusion, I urge you to reconsider whether you are aware of your responsibilities, your political capacity to present as a political party coming from Republika Srpska here, to deal with potential political tendencies which, I must say, are kind of visible here, but that's your political responsibility, that's your political position. But in any case, I think this way shows the position of certain structures on the issue that was completely legitimate. It wasn't just a matter of talking here, and I'm going to end up, and I'm sorry I overstepped my resources, but this wasn't just about how the judges were elected, it was about how they made decisions in the Constitutional Court. And that I think is also very important, because we cannot prejudge what other tendencies will be of certain political entities, which obviously express their negation towards certain things that come from the Republika Srpska. But that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12686	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12687	...a replica. Dear fellow Lovrinović, I have not taken the exclusiveity of any people, nor religion, I am proud to belong to my people of Bosniak and to my Islamic faiths, as I respect you, your religious commitment, and all of my colleagues and their religious commitment to the end. When I say "ethno-national" it shows, and the people see it, that we're closing in tors and we're fighting like we have an exclusive on just one thing, and we're here and we represent all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are not Hrvat, Srbin, Bošnjak and others here, because we also decide on fate, if I am Bošnjak, Croatian children, Serbian children and any child. That's what I meant by Mr. Lovrinović. Because when we talk about structure, about laws, about anything, we talk about everyone. The opinion and our performances in which we will not forget that we are not in this House called the Representative Exclusions of one people, but representatives of all peoples and all citizens, because that is also the constitutional category – citizens, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and nothing more. Through everything I do, I make all the citizens, all the peoples, all the religious communities fully equal, and I will try to do it with all my beings as long as I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12688	Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12689	... You, Mr. Bosić. So, I thought it was logical that after seeing what the outcome was that, given the joint initiative, we would sit together and talk about it again and be a joint initiative again. I didn't expect you at the College level to make that decision before the promoters, and you're not just the Proposer, but we're also in this... to propose this initiative together. I can't believe that you really think that sometimes someone from, uh, your colleague from the college will accept that you're going to ask the foreign judges to leave. As my conscience cannot accept that, that it is possible to allow and that 20 years come after the Constitutional Court is established that the parties to the Constitutional Court are reputed by domestic judges. It's kind of in the mind of a man who can't accept it. That's why I thought it logical for us to sit down and talk again, and before I make sure that there's a SNSD there's not much of a voice when it comes to the success of the deal, and here's why you've probably made it, so a different coalition at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina was created, so I was hoping that along with these good ties you've built at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina... the authorities might also be able to use some possibility to agree with your colleagues a way that would be more acceptable and more certain. So, I'm asking you to find a way to sit down and talk about it again, today we don't have to conclude anything, the fate of this is over, but I'm asking you anyway that we're in this together and that we should be together and get out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12690	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Mladen Bosić, chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12691	I have to say, Mrs. Majkić, I really don't understand what you're talking about. This is about the commission, in agreement with the other two members of the College, of a commission that would open a constitutionally defined possibility of opening talks on the possibility of changing the composition of the Constitutional Court. Well... you see, what, who might have something against it. So no one here can make anyone do anything. As we defend the rights that came out of Dayton for Republika Srpska, so others normally defend their rights and try to reach some other rights. The only thing that's possible in the conversation, based on common interest, is to come up with new solutions, I don't see another way. Everything else is something that, on the other hand, is not a legal path. So, I'm open to all the conversations, and thank you to colleagues who have joined us to invest this initiative, and I repeat, which means only opening talks on one topic defined by the Constitution. And I can't figure it out, so I can't even figure out any of the debaters here, what, how they're gonna find something wrong with that initiative. So there can't be any change if there's no deal. And I argue that it is common interest to create a situation in which the BiH Constitutional Court will have domestic property, that there are guarantees, that there are opportunities to make guarantees for the fears that individual groups and peoples have about voting. But to come, to try to get to that, I guess we need to open the talks, and I will always insist that we try to come to an agreement. After all, let's not lie, I mean, it was clear to us that these laws would be rejected, because we didn't consult anyone, it was our desire to open a dialogue, we didn't get approval for it, we're outvoted, here we are now trying to maintain this dialogue, because I mean, I'm convinced that it's the interest of everyone. If you see another time from what I'm talking about, I'd like to hear it, and it doesn't rule out talks within Republika Srpska on resolving these issues, both of them and other issues. So this initiative doesn't eliminate anything, it's an initiative that's actually showing good faith and nothing else, this is showing good faith to try and talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12692	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12693	Well, I really didn't want to talk about this, but I said that I came up with the idea that I should rephrase or correct what Mr. Backović was saying. In fact, it's not the first time, so this time I'm just tired of listening to it more, because when he and the likes often come here and say it in public, the people think it. I don't know what kind of fluid people he thinks or thinks about all three people, and it's as if I've been chosen by Mars, and I've been chosen by some people by citizens. So that's what I was going to say, don't take your right to interpret what some people want. 37,000 votes got the list I was wearing, so neither is it, nor are they sheep. So if I'm speaking in some other way that maybe you, here or I don't know some of the likes of you who think like you, it's not acceptable how it's expressed here, that's your problem, so I'm speaking on behalf of the people. I just love that, therefore, such a floscule, as if it were some defender of the people and his interests, and some others, which the people chose, were the destroyers of his interests, so it began to bother me more. It's the only reason I've replicated, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12694	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12695	I'm really sorry to have to, but it's completely distorted, wrong and the way you want to understand it and have an interpretation of my thoughts. You have the right to interpret, but you have no right to say what I did not say. I said here - we are representatives of the people. As far as I know this "a" is extended plural, but everyone, you and I, and Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak, because this is a House of Representatives, this is not the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12696	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12697	I speak very precisely. The space where you are chosen is not the exclusiveness of a people, but the space where all the nations, and the rest, and the citizens live, and we can't talk that way. That's why we have problems in this House. We need to start thinking that, or work for all those who live there, as well as, I don't know, my colleague, or, not to mention, here's Maja Gasal, or Željko Komšić, or, I don't know, you Saša, that's where everyone lives. And the solutions we're looking for here, we're looking for, and I've fenced very precisely, for everyone without anyone feeling threatened, undervalued, I don't know, belittled, demoted, and so on, but they all have the same chance, the same opportunity, and the same conditions of life and nothing more. And we can do that with our work for everyone, just for everyone, and this is how we constantly face each other and we don't have a solution. As long as it's been a while for these men who run the Council of Ministers, we don't open the door, the muscles are working. Instead of having their full support...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12698	Mr. Backović, you won't believe the time is up again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12699	Thank you, let's, I'll, as long as we... don't run out I'll talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12700	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12701	Mr. Chairman. Every debate is interesting, we know the result of this when we started the activity, certainly it would be important to come up with a solution that would lead to the adoption of certain laws in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is impossible for all 13 MPs from Republika Srpska if they declare one law, it is absolutely clear to everyone, that nothing means without the votes of the Federation political parties, I am talking about Representatives, it is also true for the House of Peoples. What I think would be good, given that this was the common interest of political parties from Republika Srpska, so both the SDS and the NDP and the NNS and SNSD, that we are definitely today or by the end of this session of both these laws have nothing, I speak as our initiatives. It is necessary to seek a solution, the fact is that this is part of constitutional matter, the fact is that it is not good for anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be unhappy or to fear possible decisions that would be against the interest of anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, any constituent people. We have no experience so far in the Constitutional Court in this composition in the Dayton Constitution established as it is, not a single case that, for example, the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia or of the Serb people, together with the foreigners, have made any decision that would be against the interest of the Bosniak people and that creates, in a certain sense, the uncertainty and dissatisfaction that is as it is. So I think, the reason why now, if we vote on this, we can't support this conclusion proposal, although in a certain sense it makes sense to think about the possibility of solving the problem as it is, that it would be good, maybe the political parties that have agreed, so the text of these two laws, which we all signed together, that the final conclusion after the epilogue of this 120-day period was made and that it would be estimated how to have the next steps and how to solve this. We are not, I must tell you honestly, yesterday, except for a distinguished colleague, Pandurević, who said that a proposal for a conclusion would be made which would be a possible solution, none of us knew anything about this, not even the president of the club, nor any SNSD MP until we got on the table. In that sense, we have a reserve regarding this conclusion, we do not consider it, it is legitimate, and I believe that there should be a commitment in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we need to talk to each other enough to trust each other, or to build trust, rather than to talk about cheating on each other. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12702	Thank you. We've finished the debate on this agenda point. Since it's 7:00 p.m., I'm going to suggest that we make a decision to discuss item 28 instead of next item. The appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission in order of others because it is not 101 possible, we must finish this before 4 May. So, the proposal is to move this point now as the next item of the agenda, then take a break of 10 or 15 minutes to vote on the points we've had so far and to continue the session on 11 May.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12703	10:00, that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12704	10:00. This is what I mean, at this rate and the way we've been doing, there's no way we're gonna end this tonight. I'm sorry that the chairman and the minister are here, but obviously this would go deep into the night and it wouldn't be productive or smart to continue. I'm voting on this proposal. _________(?) What proposal? The proposal to switch this point on the CEC selection now to, switch now as the next item of the agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12708	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12709	Ah, good. Number of points won: 1. Irena Hadžiabdić 50 2. == Siniša, Bencun by elderman == @elder_man Gordana Dejanović 21 I am opening the debate. If there are no reports, I'll close this item on the agenda. 15 minutes of breaks and we're approaching the vote on the agenda points this Assembly has been working on so far. Thank you. Please take your seats and ask the MPs to register. So we continue the session by voting. First item – The adoption of the minutes from the 27th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the record. For 39, against nothing, abstentioned nothing. General and entity majority, we've adopted the record. Point 3. – A request from the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Salary Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure. We're voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12711	No, no, we haven't established, wait, wait, we haven't established...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12712	We're only voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12713	We only vote on the law, not the emergency procedure, that's what we've done. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12714	We're voting on the bill. I'm asking you to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12715	We've established an emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12716	So, for 9, versus 27, abstention 3. No general majority, no bill adopted. There's no need for us to vote on these proposals. Let's go to point 4. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12717	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12718	Where's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12719	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12720	Okay. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević. Is there a conclusion to be read? In conclusion, the Finance and Budget Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is tasked with considering the observations set out in the letter of the Finance and Treasury Minister of 24.03.2016 concerning the problems in the application of Article 39. The Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, and to prepare, in accordance with them, amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions to remove any ambiguity regarding the application of Article 39. So he's asked the Council of Ministers to make a proposal comprehensive. Is everything clear about the conclusion now? We're going to vote on the conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We reiterate the vote on the conclusion of Aleksandra Pandurević. So 22 for, against the 10th abstention 7. The general and entity majority exist, the conclusion was adopted. We are voting on the proposal to conclude Parliament, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12722	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12723	It makes sense. 104 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12724	Are you withdrawing or should we vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12725	Don't pull.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12726	So we're voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Dušanka Majkić. Should I read it to you? Here, I'll read it. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to draw up a detailed analysis of possible exemptions from the application of Article 39. Law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the conclusion. Is it clear what we're voting on? Please, the vote on the conclusion of Dušanka Majkić's letter. So, for 20, against 14, abstention 5. The general majority exists, the entity majority does not exist in the Federation of BiH. Shall we go now? We vote right away in the second round on the conclusion of Parliament's Dušanka Majkić. For 18, against 15, abstentioned 6. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, the conclusion is adopted. Point four, so we vote, please, please, for the concentration, we repeat each vote three times, please for peace. Let's go to point 4. – The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Damir Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure. We're voting on the bill. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Shall we repeat the vote? Is it necessary to repeat the vote? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12731	Don't be afraid, I won't do anything, you're free, you're an opposition, you're right, I have to be responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12732	For 5, versus 32, abstention 2. There is no general majority, the law is not accepted. Moving to point 6. – The request of MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure. We're voting on the bill. For 16, v. 22, abstention 1. There is no general majority, the law is not accepted. We're going to point 7. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. We're voting on a negative opinion by the Constitutional Commission. For 23, against 13, abstention 3. 106 There is a general and entity majority, so we adopted the Constitutional Commission's opinion. So the law was denied. Point 9. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. For 26, v. 5, abstention 8. The general and entity majority exist, we passed the bill. Point 10. – Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. For 30, against four, abstentions five. There is a general and entity majority, the bill has been passed. Point 11. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality (first reading). For 22, v. 9, abstention 8. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we approach the second circle immediately? We're voting again on the law in the second round. For 21, v. 9, abstention 9. There's a general and entity majority, so we passed the bill. Point 12. – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MEPs from SNSD and SDS, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. We're voting on a negative opinion by the Constitutional Commission. For 28, v. 10, abstention 1. There is a general majority, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. We're going to the second round of voting. For 27, versus 11, abstention 1. There's a general majority but there's no entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12733	There are 2/3 of Republika Srpska entities, the report is therefore not adopted, and according to the Rules of Procedure, since it is the second time it is considered...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-1.u12734	So, no opinion adopted, the legislative procedure is suspended in accordance with Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. 107 Point 13. – Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MEPs from SNSD and SDS, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. We're voting on a negative opinion by the Constitutional Commission. For 23, against 11, abstention 5. The general majority exists, there is no entity in Republika Srpska. Are we going to the second round? We're going to vote in the second round. For 23, v. 10, abstention 6. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. Opinion not adopted, legislative procedure is suspended in accordance with Rule 113(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The vote is now on the adoption of MPs' conclusions: Mladen Bosić, Šefik Džaferović and Borjana Krišto. For 22, versus 16, abstention 1. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, the conclusion is adopted. We're voting right now on the adoption of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's conclusion. (?) [[no microphone turned on]] Shall we do it again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
