ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2190	I suggest you take your seats so we can start working. Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House and representatives of BiH's Board of Appeal, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH and the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against BiH corruption. The session is attended by 15 delegates, five from each club. As you are indicated in the call for a session and in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, delegates may be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 22nd session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to the Council of Ministers. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. No oral questions were asked for this session. Now we move on to the agenda of the 22nd session. For the 22nd session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01-02-174216, since 17.06.2016; 3. Proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition (first reading) under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-136116, of 09.05.2016 and of 10.06.2016; 2 4. First Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-34016, from 28.01.2016 and 01.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. Declaration by the People's House on the setting of a new deadline for submission of opinions on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 02-02-1-126516, since 16.05.2016; 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – legislator Mario Karamatić, Law No 02-02-1-105316, of 05/04/2016, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3315, of 24.12.2015 and 25.01.2016; 8. Proposal for a law on the provision of free legal aid (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-178916, since 28/06/2016; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02- 02-1-151016, from 20.05.2016 and 13.07.2016; 10. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (Law 01,02-02-1-3415, of 24.12.2015 and 01.03.2016); 11. Report of the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (Law 01,02-02-1-34116, from 28.01.2016 and 04.03.2016); 12. Request of the Interim Joint Commission for the extension of the deadline for preparing and referencing the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, No 01,02-50-14-1197-316, since 20.07.2016; 13. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015, material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, No 01,02-37-158116, since 01.06.2016; 14. Annual consolidated report on the financial management and control system for 2015, Ministry of Finance material and vaults of BiH, No 03-16-1147816, since 18.05.2016; 15. Annual report in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, material from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, No 01,02-28-192716, since 14.07.2016; 16. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2015, the Agency’s Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Material, No 058-50-19-115716, since 15.04.2016; 17. Report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Action Plan for the implementation of the proposal for measures to prevent discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, No 036-1569-116, since 01.06.2016; 18. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2015, material of the BiH Appeal Office, issue 01,02-50-19-167616, since 13/06/2016; 19. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Combating Corruption, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one 3 representatives of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption, No 01,02-34-1-196316, since 19.07.2016; 20. Information on the state of emigration, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, No 01,02-92-159016, from 02.06.2016; 21. Information on the implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Programme for Housing Management, with reasons, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, No 03-21-156016, since 27.05.2016; 22. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January – December 2015, material of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue 03,0314- 16-1-174516, since 22.06.2016; 23. Report on the designation of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Commission material for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency, No 01,02-34-1-193216, of 13.07.2016; 24. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, the Proposer of the Joint College of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, No 01,02-34-1-1838-316, since 20.07.2016; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID) – Rural Entrepreneurship Development Project, Act No 01,02-50-2-176316, of 23.06.2016; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Grant (The Gradac Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP "Communalac" d.d. Gradac and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Act No 01,02-50-2-177016, of 24.06.2016; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Housing Programme – BiH 4 (2015), Act No 01,02-50-2-182616, of 04.07.2016; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on co-operation in the field of the fight against crime, Act No 01,02-05-2-197416, since 20.07.2016. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. You have received a proposal to supplement the session agenda proposed by delegate Darko Babalj. It is the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an interresor working group for the creation of the Law on the Study of Origin of Functions in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose proposed delegate Darko Babalj. I'll give the word to the motionist, if he wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2191	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2192	Okay. We are voting on a proposal to supplement the agenda. Please approach the vote. So, of the 14 delegates present, it was 6.7 against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH 4 for, 4 against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, without abstentions. 4 There is no general majority. Therefore, the conclusion did not get the required majority. So, we haven't adopted an addition to the 22nd session agenda. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have a report. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the minutes of the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, of the total 14 delegates present -- there were 12, no votes against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without, without abstention, Republika Srpska 3 for, without against and 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, I figure we've adopted a record. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-742/16, since 17.06.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2196	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2197	It's like the report. I give my word to Mr Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2198	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2199	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition in the first reading by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 6 So there are 14 delegates present – 12.2 against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, 2 against and without abstentions. There's a general and there's an entity majority. I therefore conclude that the proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition in the first reading is in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly have been adopted. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. A preliminary Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-340/16, from 28.01.2016 and 01.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2205	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2206	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. Mr. Mario Karamatić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the fate of this law is quite certain, let me put it that way. In doing so, I am obliged to tell you and the public what are the reasons why they asked me to propose this law in the first place. So, any fear that there will be a sudden outflow of personnel from the Armed Forces is adjudicated, since this law has only allowed officers who are submerged by acts of brigades and dignitaries to apply for early retirement, and this is once again approved by the Ministry of Defense. So no one can retire because it occurred to him. It also states in the Bill's proposal that all those who under this Law would be able to submit an early retirement request at all that they had to be active participants in the Homeland War for at least 3 years. Given that the war lasted four years in these areas, it means that they chose the days when they would be on the ground and when they would participate in that war there is absolutely no possibility that they could choose a nice time, the days when they were not shot, when there were no events on the battlefield, and this is about people, which, in the vast majority, also have health problems, because the war, all those who participated in it, wasn't some knight's struggle so that someone would add a shield, so on horses to go, was raining both rain and snow, and they were digging mud and fingernails a little lower to be when the grenade fell. And we now have a situation, and this is already entering the realm of human rights and equality, so we have a situation where someone who is a general or a brigade at the moment he comes to a request and the Ministry approves it or doesn't approve him of leaving for early retirement, as long as someone who has come out with the greatest officer act, an act of sergeants from the war, or someone who's come to the rank of captain, or major, or the colonel doesn't have that right. I wanted this right to ensure these people and thus to thank them for their contribution to the Homeland War, in a way that they finally get some security. It's that, for example, all these people that would be covered by this Law will be until 2021, '22. Everyone's retired because there's no possibility they could have been active for three years in the war if they're in the Armed Forces all the time so they can stay longer. But if someone, for example, works out, points out next year a contract with the Armed Forces, which is signed on a certain deadline, and if that person is severely ill with cancer, some very severe disease, he can't extend his contract with the Armed Forces because he can't get, pass a medical examination, he's not capable of serving in the Armed Forces, and these people will end up on the road without any rights. I wanted us as the highest legislative House of Bosnia and Herzegovina to show these people that we are not ready to forget theirs, all what they did for this country and, I say, to provide them with at least some social security. This is how we send them a very clear message that we will drain them like lemon for as long as possible, drag them as long as they can physically come to work, and that they will retire when they have completed their retirement years and work hours. And if someone thinks winning is someone that won't pass this law, that we're sending these people such a message, I'm paraphrasing one of Napoleon's generals after one of the battles Napoleon won, he told him - General, another victory like this, and we're done. Now, I'm telling you all and the whole BH public, a few more of these victories to the people who gave so much to this country, and we're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2208	Thank you very much. This was the Proposer of the Law. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. We can approach the vote. Thus, 15 delegates were courteous – for it was 13.2 against and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, 1 against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, 1 against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. In view of the fact that the dom has adopted the opinion of the competent Commission referred to in the position (1) of this Member, the proposed Law is considered to be rejected. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-133/15, of 24.12.2015 and 25.01.2016 This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a result, the College of the House of Nations sent a letter to the promoter and the Opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the observed shortcomings in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 25.01.2016, the Proposer submitted a new text of the bill. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications has adopted the principles of the bill. The Commission also adopted the following conclusion, proposing to the House that it adopt it, quote "The amendment phase for the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina is extended until 15 days after the adoption of the Law Proposal in the Second Reading at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives." 10 The House of Representatives adopted the draft law in the first reading at the 34th session, held on 01.08.2016. I give the floor to the chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the House of Peoples, Mr Nebojša Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2210	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2211	I've read it all, thank you very much. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. There were 15 delegates present -- 15 in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without, without abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, and I therefore find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. We are voting on the conclusion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples. There are 15 delegates present – for 15, without votes against and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without and without abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without and without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the conclusion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications was adopted. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the provision of free legal aid (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1-1789/16, since 28/06/2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2214	It's like the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2215	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko's answering. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the provision of free legal assistance in first reading. There were 14 delegates present -- 11.3 votes against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without, without abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, without abstention. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the proposal for a law on the provision of free legal assistance was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1510/16, from 20.05.2016 and 13.07.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2218	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2219	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. There are 14 delegates present – for it was 9.3 against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska without votes to, 3 against and 2 abstentions. There is a general majority there is no entity majority. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2223	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2224	It's like the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act, the mandatory holidays of mobile workers and road transport recording devices. There are 14 delegates present – 12, no votes against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without and without abstention, Republika Srpska 3 for, without opposition, with 2 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, the mandatory holidays of mobile workers and road transport recording devices have been adopted. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Report of the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (Law No: 01,02-02- 1-341/16, of 28.01.2016 and 04.03.2016) The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination with nine amendments at the 21st session, held on 14 July 2016. At its 31st session, held on 15.06.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination with nine amendments. Since 14 Laws were adopted in a different text compared to the House of People's House of Representatives, Halid Genjac, Ljilja Zovko and Dark Babalj were appointed in the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the Text. At its session held on 28 July 2016, the Joint Commission agreed on an identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, as adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and proposed to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives to adopt the Report and adopt the unique text of the Law adopted by the Joint Commission. At its 34th session, held on 01.08.2016, the House of Representatives adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law. I give my word to Mr Halid Genjac, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2226	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2227	It's like the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. We're approaching the vote. There are 15 delegates present – for 12, without votes against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, without votes against, with 3 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the Joint Commission Report of both homes has been adopted to achieve the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Moving to point 12, Ad. 12. Request of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to extend the deadline for preparing and referencing the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01,02-50-14-1197-3/16, since 20.07.2016 At the 10th session, held on 14.10.2015, the House of Representatives at the 18th session, held on 07.10.2015, adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight. The Interim Joint Commission of the House of Peoples named Ognjen Tadić, Ljilja Zovko and Safet Softić. The conclusion is that the deadline for the implementation of the task is 60 days from the date of the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission. Given that the Interim Joint Commission was established on 27 April 2016, the deadline for preparing and referring to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control expired. In view of the fact that it is complex matter, the Interim Joint Commission decided at its session held on 18.07.2016 to request an extension of the deadline for preparation and 15 reference to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control. At its 34th session, held on 01.08.2016, the House of Representatives extended the deadline for the Interim Joint Commission until the end of 2016. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the request of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to extend the deadline for preparing and referring to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight. There are 14 delegates present – for there were 13, without votes against and with 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, and I therefore find that the request of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to extend the deadline for preparing and refer to the parliamentary procedure The draft law on parliamentary oversight was adopted, which extended the deadline for preparing and referring to the parliamentary procedure by the end of 2016. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015, material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, issue: 01,02-37-1581/16, since 01.06.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2232	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2233	It's like the report. I give the word to the Reporter. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Annual Consolidated Report on the Financial Management and Control System for 2015. There are 15 delegates present – for 12, without votes against, and 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without abstentions and abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, without against, and 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I conclude the Annual Consolidated Report on the Financial Management and Control System for 2015 has been adopted. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Annual report in the field of agriculture, nutrition and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, material from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01.02-28-1927/16, since 14.07.2016 The opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples has been obtained. The Commission accepted the report. The Joint Commission for European 17 Integration has submitted a proposal to the House for a discussion on this material. The House of Representatives adopted the Annual Report on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015. I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the House of People and the rapporteur of the Joint Commission for European Integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2235	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2236	It's all written. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Mario Karamatić, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, yesterday, we had, I can say, a constructive debate involving all the members of the committee, and here I am going to repeat some of my thoughts. As far as the report itself is concerned, the report is correctly written with data, meaning the ministry has available, but as far as the situation in agriculture and rural development is concerned, I don't know which word I would use, perhaps the nearest debacle... We have one situation that farmers in both entities are absolutely dissatisfied with the work of the entity ministries of agriculture, and we also have the assurance that the state ministry, regardless of all the efforts they are making, obviously this effort is not enough, so to reach some levels where we would protect farmers in our country. We have farmers who can meet all the requirements that any market can set before them. And then, and when politics makes an additional effort, I'll mention exports of meat to Turkey, thanks to, we make ourselves a scandal because we don't have enough control mechanisms, so it happens that someone imports braids and necks, so they finely cut it, then they sell it to the Turčin under steak, but neither the Turčin are so uninformed about what steak and what a piece of door is, then it turns out to be an affair, so it's being chased, so it's being suspended, that what's most important in all that, the Ministry of State is sending inspections to those companies that were clean and ultimately only those companies where the biggest irregularities were able to re-export meat to Turkey. So we have a situation before, I don't know how long the esteemed colleagues of Radmanović, Kadić and my smallness were visiting the Russian Federation in Moscow, we talked there with their people and they were also interested in increasing the trade in goods with Bosnia and Herzegovina, even, it was also considered a special status, meaning, tax incentives, everything, and they should have sent their phytosanitary inspection to enable 18, along with the export of fruit that was already possible to the Russian Federation, and the export of pig and beef, as well as the dry meat processing, which they were interested in since the production of chicken have at a satisfactory level. It happened that they sent a request from Bosnia and Herzegovina for their phytosanitary inspection to come and that the request had been dragged into the ministry by various drawers, until the last scandal broke out, and now we cannot export fruit because Zlatan Ibrahimović thought that the peaches from Ghana could be swept away as peaches from Bihac, or Mostar or not, from where. We have a situation where Bosnia and Herzegovina imports 2.5 million tonnes of various kinds of meat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have two customs coolers. So, customs freezer, let me classically describe it to you, it's something similar to that extension on the truck like a basket and the maximum maximum can fit into it, so maybe about 20 tons. Now, if we took 2.5 million tons and distributed 20 tons to get them into those two freezers, it's theoretically not going to be just two seconds inside so it can stop. So the malfeasances are done hugely, and eventually they're paying back just the ones that do the most work, that produce extra value, they're costing direct producers. When the story started, I will now return to exports of beef to Turkey, because of the way it was launched, due to the purchase, so the price of cattle produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina went up. Now because of the monopoly, because only one producer has the right, the price of cattle is at the lowest level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence, meaning live scales, as said in agriculture when buying cows or bulls, never lower prices were and people can't even cover the food they gave those cows and bulls to grow to that weight, let alone earn something. The fact is that we have regulations like we have, we prescribe something from the EU, but the thing is that our farmers are getting harder and harder to survive, that farms are being closed daily, and that's how it is in the fruit industry, that's how it is in livestock production, that's how it is in the beekeeping industry, in the dairy industry. So, in all industries, we make some laws, so we make our own lives complicated, and then we do what I don't think any normal state should, and then we call our own phytosanitary inspectors to do to us here, which is on the one hand and logical because we're obviously aware that our phytosanitary inspections, our plant protection office, for veterinary purposes, our entity ministries are simply not doing their job. Furthermore, as far as entity ministries are concerned, we have cases of people not paying for incentives, imagine because they exported more than prescribed. So that's why he can't get the incentive. We have examples where no incentives are paid due to national composition, for example working in West Herzegovina County, where I come from, there are still no incentives paid for 2014. In most counties they were paid for 2016. So, the situation in agriculture is debacle, I'll repeat that word, and if we don't do something urgently, and we have these conclusions that were subsequently delivered from European integration, which can do something..., fix the situation, if we adopt them, if we implement them. However, I believe that as the country's largest legislative authority, we too have to launch a serious thematic session to discuss agricultural problems, avoid this politicisation, transfer competences and see how we can make it easier for those people who produce apples, who grow bulls, chickens, the milk of cows, means that we make it easier for them, not to make it easier for customers and exporters, which is persistently done. In addition, we have laws that, in my opinion, are out of their minds. For example, additional duties are paid on imports of live cattle, meaning excessive, excise duties, etc., until this is paid on imports of meat. And we have a situation where our importers, when they want to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina to Vrgorec or Gradiška or the Bosnian Bull Ship and then slaughter them there in the slaughterhouses, pay there and then import without customs. All we got with it is that in the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Serbia, which are neighbouring us, 500 people work in slaughterhouses, and we have a man working on a fork that then carries it. I mean, we've got a lot of unbulful laws, nebulous solutions, which have been passed under the interests of various interesting lobbys of 19, and I think it's necessary, and I would suggest it, and as a conclusion, here we don't even have to in this year, let's in the next year which isn't elective, to avoid tensions, to avoid everything, to make a broad thematic debate on the state of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to try to finally help these people who live out of it and who are the only one who actually brings added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2239	I'm only asking in writing this proposal. Mr. Martin Raguž, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2240	Thank you. I warmly welcome all present. So here's a few, a few words about this important report, about an important area. All of us here are witnesses to say that agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be one of the strategic resources and when we look at this report and when we look at these united indicators and data, then we actually see how far we are in reality from this declared goal and the interest of this country. So in that sense, I'm going to make a few illustrations as well as muttering suggestions for thinking. The first thing I would say is that there is a clear progress in the accession of the ministry in the report as well as in the public in the efforts shown, initiatives to address many open and complex issues in this area, and what is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction, as well as in coordination with competent entity, county ministries and institutions. But also today in this report we can clearly see, here I will just have a few data, the first is, the report refers to '15, when we talk about incentives, so in 2015 it is, therefore, not only was it late with payment, but the subsidies were less for around 134, it was delivered about 113 million and 18% were less than in the previous year. So how do we go forward if in one year, 20% less stands out to support agricultural production and who's responsible for it. He says there's a lack of funds in the budget. So who is planning the budget and who is using the instruments that the full budget needs to be taken to the public and to those people that, here's what we heard from colleagues Karamatić, means not only that the incentives are selectively paid, but everyone is in a phase that there is no in total, there is no significantly less resources to minimise one production support. It is one thing that should be seriously, seriously and responsibly considered, discussed and in some way from this position us as state lawmakers absolutely intervened. And I will personally advocate, here's to not being used for pre-election purposes, after the election of locals to bring together a debate on these issues and to sort of see from the responsibility of entities, the state, what seems to create conditions for these incentives to be 20% more minimal every year, not 20% smaller. What appears to be not to be paid selectively by political or other similarity, belonging to this party or to that party, but by the deserved share in the achievement of the production on the market and the rights to which it belongs. The second thing is, we have a fact, therefore, that the coverage of imports in agricultural production and in the agricultural sector, so for the past year this data was 28%. 28%, so imagine where we are then. So we import almost four times as much as we export agricultural products. Let's say 2014 was a 4% shift, in 2014 it was 24%, and that's some small shift if you count on which, by which dynamics Bosnia and Herzegovina should monitor coverage, it should be about 25 years of growth, that growth, although the question of whether it was accidentally increased by 4% or the fruit of some other circumstances to even it. Well, then let's see and imagine where we're all together. 20 I am deeply aware, therefore, that most of the competences in this area are at the level of the entities and the Brcko District, the County, the operational mechanisms, but it is also clear, therefore, that international exchange and external trade and each other, that the Stabilisation Agreement, that the European path is, that the use of funds, that it is the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is the mutual orientation of each other, this,... that anything is done at all serious. So a kind of strategic coordination must absolutely exist and the use of instruments that stand on the disposition should be much more quality. That's what we need to talk about. When we talk about the share of agricultural production and the sector in the GDP in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is only 7% at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, now imagine where we are also. In Republika Srpska twice as large as in the Federation, it is about 10% compared to the Federation in which it is about 5%. So in order to strengthen our overall social product, we should really be much different, much more serious, much more honest with agricultural production and with agricultural producers and with the agricultural potential in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when we talk about total employment, then we can see, therefore, that in Republika Srpska the share of employees in the overall process is close to 30%, 29, in the Federation only 11%. So there is a huge space to increase employment if more serious and more responsible and strategically approach this area. Now I could list another set of examples, I won't, but I think here's some of these data that I've presented suggests the seriousness of the situation in this area, inadequate treatment and irresponsibility, I'd say, a significant part of the political structures, particularly ruling at all levels, uh, to bring this issue much more responsibility. I'll illustrate with only one example, here there are indicators for every agricultural culture, of cattle, meat, cows, pigs, sheep, goats, etc., milk, vegetables, potatoes, this, you don't have here registered in '15. A year that there's an extremely dynamic and pro-pulsive production that comes from below because people come to an end, they don't have to go on, so they turn the stone into a working surface for, say, mercy. No mercy is mentioned here, neither is it, be careful neither mentioned in the Report, mercy where several thousand acres of stone has been processed, we have so many vines. And we have about 4,000 acres of vines in total, vineyards that have been created for centuries and decades, etc. So, we don't have a reflex that we can even feel from below that people are creating an initiative, so at least let's open a channel for them, so if we're not strategically aware that this space of Bogo is day in world contexts after the war in Syria, destruction, mercy in Serbia is perhaps the best quality in the world. Unless we want to treat certain areas as an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's total space. I don't mean to say it's an intensity, but you can think about it that way if you want to, and I wouldn't want to think about it that way, but that we have in the strategy of industrial plants, healing plants, that we have clearly indicated strategic advantages and potentials and what the state will do. Well, you know, now you can't, there's only one channel of how to come, place that oil that has one hundred times the value of a kilo of mercy, and then you can think of what people have to deal with, which is what people have to meet and wind up with, etc. So I'm not against the Report, right now, the report has been done quite seriously, a lot of data, in cooperation with entities, with the competent ministries, but the fact is that the situation in this area, I agree with my colleague, extremely, extremely badly and is not at the level of the needs and potential of this country. And here in measures, we can no longer escape from whose jurisdiction is, we have no strategies, we have no people, we have no rural development strategy, we have no serious solution. I'm just telling you one example of solving cloonic waste, this country is being buried and poisoned in continuity. We don't even have the idea of working bio-mass power plants, using animal waste to produce electricity and wind potential, which is potential... Let's talk about it. We have a theme these days, and here we see what's being said, well, it's shining 21 temperatures, it's making cheap political points, and what's real life, and here I call on those who are responsible for power to deal with these elements a little bit more responsibly. And I urge all of us to support a serious debate at the Palrament's level on these issues after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2241	Thank you very much. The word is Mr Dragutin Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2242	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues from the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to say a few words about this, or else I didn't mean to discuss it, but I have been offered a few facts, and it would be good if we all heard it together for the simple reason that when we adopt this report there remains a collection of statistical data and everything that next year can serve as a strategy in this area, although we all know it's the entity's jurisdiction, but we also know that agriculture is a comparative advantage and that Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the resources it has from that branch of activity, can make significant revenues. The introduction of this Report makes it clear that the report primarily uses data from the competent ministries of the entity agriculture and the Department of Agriculture of Brcko District, then institutions in the field of statistics, and uses data that were not held by ministries, i.e. the Department of Agriculture of the Brcko District. The report is also a single document in Bosnia and Herzegovina showing the state of the agricultural food sector from the aspect of the production and trade of agricultural and processed agricultural products of the implemented agricultural policy. Since I have often been here asking delegate questions from this area, we have received various answers, which to this day are not, if we look at what is responsible, what has been implemented, we come to a clear conclusion that many things are in place. But if we take all of this and this report, I'm just going to comment on the following, given the source of data and all of this and that it was supposed to be a collection of entity data, to get one overall picture of the situation in the agricultural area in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not entering into the reasons for this concept of the report, nor the methodology itself, I believe that the Annual Report from the field of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 has significant shortcomings. Namely, the report is written in such a way that the underlying reader can conclude that the operators of most of the activities in the Agriculture Sector are state-level institutions. The displayed activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of Republika Srpska in the light of the legal and sublegislative acts adopted, and the measures implemented during 2015 are incomplete, as a significant part of these were left out of the Report. In addition, the text repeats certain parts from year to year with reference to activities that did not take place in 2015. In parts of the Report, where jurisdiction is stated, the institution author of the Report does not specify the law of a defined jurisdiction, but states its version of it. For table displays, such as Table No. 18th Structure of the agricultural budget for the period 2008-2015 according to support groups, data collection was carried out from entities and Brcko District, and it is shown as a budget for Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture, although Bosnia and Herzegovina has no budget for agriculture, nor does it realise financial support in the form of incentives. I believe that, given this concept of the Report, and this is an analysis, and we could analyse the maltenes of each item, each area and get some data, I think because of the overall relationship with this area, and I know 22 that often on committees when I mention that there is a need to consult with entity ministries, etc., and in order to come up with a good solution and to support such solutions, I believe that this report is not the case and I will be against such a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2243	Thank you. Are there any more applications for discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2244	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2245	And the deputy minister, Mr. Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2246	Dear Presidents, honourable envoys, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here, just so that I can look back as briefly as possible on what might have been heard in the debate. So this is about the report, the Annual Report on the State of Agriculture, which is the ninth in a row. The aim of each report is that as realistic as possible shows the real situation in the area concerned, so in this case, the real situation in the area of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not, of course, need to repeat to you what constitutional measures are like when it comes to agriculture and, therefore, I do not want to, although I have the will, and might be in some other circumstances and needs, to refer to those remarks concerning this real situation in the area of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is the result of everything over which neither the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH nor the Council of Ministers of BiH nor the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has too much influence. I will therefore refer only to those observations concerning the report itself, which touched that intention or desire to show the real situation as realistically as possible. Mr Rodić rightly pointed out the fact, I will underline it and further because Mr Raguž also had one observation regarding the lack of confidence, which is the result of this fact that our sources in the creation of this report were those which Mr Rodić listed, so the entity ministries of the resort, Brcko District and these state and entity statistics agencies, along with some more, let's say the Directorate for indirect taxation, etc., so we used those information, those data that were available and that came from relevant institutions which, ultimately, and constitutionally relevant data to stand behind that data. And in that sense, here this could be a particular solution. When it comes to the remarks made by Mr Rodić, which concerns a lack of good representation of the real situation as a result of the deficit or insufficient existence of certain data, primarily when it comes to data concerning agriculture in Republika Srpska, I must say that this is the result of the fact that, unfortunately, BiH's foreign trade and economic relations with the entity ministries, so both the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture of Republika Srpska did not provide data in time. After, I think, the third emergency was somehow solved with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, however, remained, and after that third emergency, the problem with the resolution ministry in Republika Srpska. And that is the only reason some indicators do not reflect the real situation when it comes to the agricultural sector in Republika Srpska. 23 As for what is ahead of us, I am, let me say, and of course I have looked at the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission for European Integration, and with these conclusions I agree, the Ministry agrees, I think it is a good idea and that, if possible, it is a little ambitious, to organise a thematic debate on the state of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which could then really be dealt with rationally by arguments and attitude. In all this, it is necessary once again, I underline, in the light of constitutional relevance, because for example, it is an extraordinary intention when it comes to the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission on European Integration, but the example of one of the conclusions is to commit the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH to solve the problem with the IPARD structure, i.e. with the inability to withdraw these funds from pre-accession funds. Not now, uh, we don't have time to get to know you as much and as all the initiatives and steps taken by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in this direction, however, due to constitutional relevance, the problem remains unresolved until today. But maybe we could focus all of this on some potential future thematic debate, and maybe that could bring us closer to the solution. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2247	Thank you. We're closing the debate. We vote on the Annual Report on Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015. There are 14 delegates present – 10 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH 8 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, 2 against, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find the Annual Report in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration. It's a total of 4 conclusions, they have a slightly longer text so that we don't waste time reading, you get them in the Report. So there are 15 delegates present -- for 13, no votes against, with two abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, with 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I conclude the conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration have been adopted. And we have a proposal from Mr. Mario Karamatić debate, a proposal for his conclusion, which says, is proposed to the House to organise a thematic session in 2017 on the situation in agriculture after the thematic sessions, public debates on all relevant institutions and parliamentary committees. I'm putting Mr. Karamatić's proposal to the vote. There are 15 delegates who are in favour -- for 11, no votes against, with four abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, with 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, without votes against, with 3 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I find this proposal adopted by Mr. Karamatić. 24 Moving to point 16, Ad. 16. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2015, the Agency’s Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Material, issue: 05/8-50-19-1157/16, since 15.04.2016 You have received the Commission's opinion on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption, which supported the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2015, with the conclusions contained in it. The Joint Commission for European Integration also submitted a proposal to the House for a discussion on this material. You've come to these conclusions, not to read them, in this report. The House of Representatives adopted a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2015 at its 34th session, with the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission for European Integration. I give the word to the Commission's representative for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption at the House of Nations. I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, whom the Joint Commission for European Integration has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2249	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2250	It's like the report. I give the word to the Reporter, if he is present, and if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's like the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Mario Karamatić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's where we'll be able to make money for this conclusion I just made. So, by all institutions, parliamentary committees, etc., to have a comprehensive and extensive debate before this thematic session. I read this report in detail, because we all agree, here at least rhetorically, that the fight against corruption and prevention is the same as one of the strategic goals and us as countries, and us as representatives and MPs. And here I am, first on the side, usually when I read about the state of corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina in certain media, then we see there from some 180 countries that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a very good 160-25 place and the du is better than us even some countries that are in crisis hotspots, so where are wars, where are dictatorships, where are revolutions. So there's less corruption. And then I read this report from our prevention agency and I see some indicators. So 31 employees, okay, trained, means by a variety of thematics, for 180 civil servants employed in the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution. So we have exactly 221 people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are at least trained to fight corruption. And then I see that we have received 124 reports of corruptive behaviour, that the competent institutions in only 42 cases have been able to respond at all to what is going on, that 16 cases have been conducted or carried out by competent institutions, and of those 16 in 4 cases have been declared by institutions incompetent and, believe it or not, one case is currently subject to judicial proceedings. So 200 and some trained anti-corruption officers, Bog asks you how many seminars, you see how fat this is all, there are three seminars on the page where someone was training to regionally, which is, in a way, to fight corruption and it's all stuck in a shithole against which a court case is being conducted. Maybe it was some poor cop who came by his electric bill and took from someone 20 marks so he wouldn't write 30 marks of punishment. And so that's the state of the fight on corruption, one court case initiated. The report was correctly written, so everything is listed what people were doing, each of them listed education here, so they listed where they were with colleagues, I don't know, from Montenegro, from Croatia, from Serbia, so where with colleagues from other counties, entities, they also included NGOs and the anti-corruption network of civil society organisations. And so all that force when it went off we get to one court case. I mean, I don't know, I think this is funny. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2253	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? You don't have to comment on anything, do you? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, we're closing the debate. We vote on the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2015. There are 14 delegates present – 10.3 against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, with 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, without abstentions. The general majority, the entity majority exists, so I find that the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency for 2015 has been adopted. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration. There are 14 delegates present – there were 11, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 7 for, without votes against, with 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, without votes against, with 1 abstention. There is a general, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration have been adopted. 26 Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina with Action Plan for the implementation of the proposal for measures to prevent discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 03/6-37-1569-1/16, since 01.06.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2256	Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates. I have a need to say a few words about this report, given that this is the first report prepared by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees after the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which, somehow, was an obligation of this law, that this is the obligation of the Ministry to inform, on an annual basis, through the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This does not mean, in practice, that there were no attempts by the ministry's previous responsible to make up a report like this but it mainly ended up either at Council of Ministers or Joint Commission meetings, parliamentary commission, for human rights. That is why, first of all, I would like to thank the members of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly for having, together with the representatives of the Ministry, in some way, presented this Report to the Parliamentary Assembly and for the first time we have the advantage of this Report... for the first time in one place we have registered all the phenomena or phenomenal forms of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina that have been established by the competent authorities, both the Ombudsman for human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international bodies and committees and commissions that monitor the state of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This report will, first of all, serve us at the Ministry, including you parliamentarians, to monitor the implementation of the measures of the Action Plan, which is part of this Report and where we, as the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers, were obliged to, on the basis of the observed occurrences through this Report and to make up such a proposal for measures. I expect that the second report on this issue, it should be in the course of 2017, will be of a much better quality because in the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for the first time we have established a record of the occurrence of forms of discrimination, which we have not had now. ... uh, this form of information will be... tied to institutions that monitor the human rights situation. So, indeed, here, in addition to these phenomena that are characterized or mentioned in the report, I expect that the next report will be based on the implementation of the action plan measures resulting from the joint work of these, I say, institutions, above all the Joint Commission on Human Rights and our Ministry. 27 We suggest you adopt this Report, these conclusions adopted by the Joint Commission and proposed by us, and the Action Plan that we propose with this Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2257	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. I put to the vote the Report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Action Plan on the implementation of the proposal for measures to prevent discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 15 delegates present – for there were 13, without votes against, with 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without votes against, and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 3 for, without votes against, with 2 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Action Plan for the implementation of measures to prevent discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. Moving to point 18, Ad. 18. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2015, material of the BiH Appeal Office, issue: 01,02-50-19-1676/16, since 13/06/2016 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 34th session, held on 01.08.2016. I give my word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, the chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. I give the word to the Reporter, if he is present, and if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2261	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2262	It's like the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have a report. I'm closing the debate. We vote on one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, in line with the proposal for a list of successful candidates for the appointment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes. Of the 15 delegates present – 10.1 versus, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, with 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, 1 against, and 2 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that we have appointed Voja Višekruna as the representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency. 29 We move to point 20, Ad. 20. Information on the state of emigration, materials of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-92-1590/16, from 02.06.2016. You've been given the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. The Joint Commission took note of the Information on the state of emigration tasked with adding the word "and to its" in the summary of the information in the section relating to the most frequent emphasis on the request for emigration in front of the word "mother language". The House of Representatives received information at the 33rd session, held on 19.07.2016. I give the word to the Joint Commission's rapporteur at the House of Peoples session if there is any need. I give the word to the applicant. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2265	I thank you again. Well, there are all important reports on the agenda of the House today, and it is difficult to define that man does not talk about each of these reports so that he does not take too much time and attention, so here is my second report on this important information on the state of emigration, which I personally welcome as some, I would say, a step towards state institutions to consider the overall problem and importance of this topic, which is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction. And in this context this report, I will absolutely support this information, with the need here to make it clear where we are in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina's emigration. So the first thing that is said here, and which is not at all controversial, is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a space, a historical space of emigration, and that it is not in vain that the people – the whole world is inhabited but we do not move ourselves. However, according to these indicators and trends, we see that if these trends continue, they will go back into history, rather than move the whole world and move themselves. That's the trend. So, at this point, we can say, therefore, that in addition to this departure of eviction, if you take that demographic surplus and growth that is increasing on a daily basis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we will only understand the perilousness of, uh, the situation in which we are talking about the biological substance of this country. When we talk about data, it means according to this data, including World Bank data, the rate of immigration in Bosnia and Herzegovina is 44.5% from the end of 2015. We also reached Albania, which was, 43.6, which has been the leading country in Europe for many years. So we can say that we are now European leaders in this regard. And in this context, we see 1,671,000 people born in Bosnia and Herzegovina living outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, not 30 counting the second and third generations. And here we only have estimates of what the second and third generations are, and I personally don't agree that when we add and add, uh, the second and third generation estimates can be talked about about 2 million. I think we should talk about a much larger number, so over 2 million. And if you take into account how much on this list, the famous of our list, that I'm not going into any other lab, we see, therefore, that's already over 50 percent in relation to the number of people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, how to approach that as a problem and as a potential. This information points to some possibilities, but I still don't think enough, and I think that the Council of Ministers, to which this information has been submitted in accordance with the law, should enter into a new phase of strategic consideration of the resources and potentials the emigrants offer for the benefit of this country, and I'm just going to list some. But before I say it, it's very interesting data where these people are, and here are the data on 50 countries... So when you see who leads on that ladder you will see that it is the Republic of Croatia with over 400 thousand people, so Serbia with 300 and some thousands, then Germany with 150, 60, and Austria and the United States. Only as a suggestion that only one of the reasons why we should have special well-designed countries, not only interstate cooperation, but also strategies and relations with these people and the use of these resources. The flow of money based on these facts and figures, so take it this year, the last year says it's 2,302,000,000 KM leads, and then it says it's only 22... sent to official channels. So if we say off-the-book, uh, calculate 100%, then that's close to 10 billion KM. Defacto these people are feeding and keeping such a social peace in this country. These are the facts, the facts presented in this Information, and we still don't have a developed, and I'm responsible for saying, not even an approximately strategy on how to establish a single database. So when you take how they're organized, one segment... The organization of the eviction. [[You don't understand.]] And... which should not be attacked or condemned, given the overall processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina organised mostly on ethnic grounds and in more than all countries of the world. There are some initiatives, indications, professional connections, let's say doctors, so they have the same interest both in Washington and here and there. And we see that exporting intelligence and exporting waist from Bosnia and Herzegovina is a degree of integration and perhaps among the strongest in the world according to this data. And you have this story now that this knowledge, integration and degree of knowledge of systems developed can be put into function of Bosnia and Herzegovina if you ensure at least a minimal transfer of knowledge and experience. If we've secured it, if we have a proposal, if we have solutions, how to work that part. Here, it's one of the... elements that... knowledge and willingness to support the local communities of these people from where they're showing that over 70% of the cases are ready to help invest, support, etc. So the interest in going back is taboo, and very often it's said that once they leave then, especially recently, but the research they've been doing, not Bosnia and Herzegovina, here's to say Switzerland, Sweden, etc., shows that this percentage moves between 50% and 70%. People want to come back, which is encouraging. And they're going to want more and more, because globally everyone is not what it was anymore, so take all the security and all the other elements, uh, you know, when I look at 60 minutes, he'd leave Bosnia and Herzegovina right away, but when I see parallels, where I'm going to go. So where to go. Both today and how to start that trend to stop them and slowly direct them, uh, in that direction. Here, there are some elements of what these people want, what their demands are. Well, the question of education, I wouldn't bring it down just to the extra class. So complementary teaching is one of the essential elements but the complete dimension of education and education must be different focus. Then the organization of our eviction. I think she should be approached without complexes and without stereotypes, all these associations and institutions are legitimate, have their right to organization and should try to come in, and communicate in a way, so, to give them a chance, extend your hand for cooperation and help... The shortcomings of the legislative and strategic framework, not to repeat them, are listed here, I think they are important elements for better and more determined action. 31 And here is the support of this Information and here is a little attempt, therefore, and it contributes to understanding the meaning of this question and the possibilities which these resources and these people, and I am convinced, I have visited almost all of these countries where these people are, I have never encountered any negative reaction, not one negative, I can say responsibly, not from political, not even ideological, if you approach these people responsibly and constructively. Well, here's the support of the Ministry and the Council to move more resolutely into implementing these measures and preparing strategies for the use of these potentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2266	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the information on the state of eviction. 15 present – for there were 14, no votes against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, without votes against, with 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, I'm finding information about the state of emigrantism has been admitted to knowledge. Moving to point 21. Ad. 21. Information on the implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Programme for Housing Management, with reasons, materials of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 03-21-1560/16, since 27.05.2016 You've been given the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. The Joint Commission has received information. The House of Representatives received information at the 33rd session, held on 19.07.2016. I give the word to the Joint Commission's rapporteur at the House of Peoples session if there is any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2269	Thank you. By submitting the information on the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, I have seen the interest of delegates here in the House of Peoples to know more about the state project 32 housing, i.e. the regional housing project. Both practically and according to this concluded General Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, we are obliged to inform Parliament on the implementation of this Framework Agreement, so this is also a way to introduce you to the stage in which we are implementing this important project for Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to solving refugees and displaced persons, i.e. returning from neighbouring countries – the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Regional Housing Programme is also designed to address the regional problem of return together. Simply Bosnia and Herzegovina has found itself in a situation that with both this way and very favourable conditions, which is practically a donation that we are sort of assessing, and the last donation that can come of this kind in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to solving refugees and displaced persons. And it is a significant donation where Bosnia and Herzegovina under this large regional housing programme, where all four countries have received an estimate of projects offered at a donor conference of around 584m euros. So in this first phase of the implementation of this project, we are at 41m euros, which is where we should finish 1,870 housing units for so many return families by the end of 2017. Families are practically coming back from, as I said, neighboring countries. And what's important is that we have developed four significant sub-projects through this project and the requirements of the return population. One section refers to the repair of houses, i.e. the largest part and the return of internally displaced persons, and the other part concerns the return of refugees and displaced persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina to these neighbouring countries. Practically now, we are in a situation that in the election, a major delay, i.e. in the realization of this project was within, due to the user's verification, a strong give of sharp criteria and rigorous criteria of the donor, where no returnee will be able to obtain a donation based on this state project which in any way or a member of his family has resolved in the neighbouring country or if he is internally displaced, and in any way solved or previously received certain funds to return. So it was very difficult to make and select users, it was a condition in general for getting and opening all four subprojects, but we successfully ended it for 1,870 users. I can only say that there is a great interest in returning from neighbouring countries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that at 5,400 how many total projects have been brought back by families or 14,000 refugees, internally displaced persons, 25,850 families and 9,000 for return and 6,5 000 for local integration. Thus, and here are the data from Croatia 4,600, 3,420 from Serbia, 90 from Montenegro and 1,500 refugees from the Republic of Croatia for local integration, according to Srbin from Croatia who came to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far, we are in a good position to realise what is practically planned with programmes and plans, which is that by the end of this year, BH1 and BH2 subprojects are being implemented, both BH3 and BH4 subprojects as you can see in the Information. Our commitment to complete all 1,870 housing units by the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, because in case we didn't do it, the money would have been withdrawn from us by the Council of Europe Development Bank. Here they were taken, so all the measures and here they started to build both individual buildings and buildings. And just to say that this is such a complex project where it is seen that around 1,430 family houses will be built, 438 apartments in 19 buildings, and a total of 72 local communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina participate in this project. All legal, or technical conditions have been created and the construction and handover of the keys for a specific, for two sub-projects has already begun, and this part is in the design phase, i.e. the selection of contractors to perform works on other objects. Of course, the Ministry will inform you in 2017 about the implementation of this project, but we expect it to be practically 90% realised by the end of 2017. A large part of the work remains, entity ministries are involved, providing air support and strong coordination has been established between these ministries, representatives of UNHCR who oversee the full stages of these and selecting users, and verifications, and construction, etc., because it is a major donation where 33 donors actively participate and seek regular reports, see how many times we have submitted the report already to the Council of Europe Development Bank. Here, it really is a serious project, but important for the return of refugees and displaced persons to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2270	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Halid Genjac, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2271	I thank the chairman. I thank the Minister for both the Information and these introductory notes, but I think that two, two or three questions might be further due to the importance of this project. Namely, this is a very important regional project, envisioned to address 27 000 households and about 74 thousand users in the region, over 500 million solid donations were promised. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5,400 families, 14,000 refugees and displaced persons are scheduled to be resolved and around 200 million KM is intended, or 100m euros in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, so far these four subprojects, they're all worth counting about, so, about 80 million KM, they're all worth it, and they're solving about 1,870 families. I am only interested in the clarification on the page, on page 13, of this Report, that in order to assess the progress of the implementation of this project in the first, first half of the project from the end of '12, to the middle of 2015, this would mean that the second half of the project was from mid '15. By '17, as I understand it, audits and evaluations were carried out and then objectives were set in this evaluation and issues, and they put forward a proposal for measures in which, according to the donors, they confirmed that the progress of partner countries in implementing... the project, but it is necessary for all involved participants, and in particular four partner countries leading the process, to take a number of measures to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their state projects. And key recommendations include that partner countries should carefully and realistically plan to implement each project, a sub-project with the support of the CEB in agreement with the UNHCR and the OSCE, among other things, to establish specific and effective measures related to the expiry of a significant part of the funds in November '17. A year. Now, here we have an introduction for Bosnia and Herzegovina planned about 100m euros, we have 4 sub-projects that are approved both in progress and worth about 80m euros, about 40m euros and some million euros, so about half or something less than half. Do you, does this project continue after '17? in the year, were these funds for Bosnia and Herzegovina compromised until '17. Because if 100 million euros are granted, and in sub-projects, 100 million are planned, and the sub-projects cover about 40 and some million, so we have that difference, and whether there is a risk that by '17. years don't take advantage of all the resources and what needs to be done, what else could be done to avoid that risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2272	Thank you very much. Mr. Raguž Martin. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2273	And I have a question, so maybe in the package that, one question relating to what the Minister said in the presentation of this Report, and I have talked about it and asked it as a question when the report on the realization of Annex VII was considered, and it refers to the criteria set by donors, which means very restrictive and who say that no one can exercise the right from this fund from these funds if he or any member of his family has in any way solved a part of his property rights or property in another country, if I have properly interpreted it. And I want to know now how much this criterion is really respected, is it fully respected and is it equally respected for all returnees from all countries in the environment, because there is different information? Here, you'd be begging for that grade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2274	Thank you very much. Are there any other delegates who want to discuss it? If not, please welcome the Ministers to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2275	First of all, the answer to the question of a respected delegate named Genjac. So Bosnia and Herzegovina has now been granted 41m euros or 80m KM for which four sub-projects have been made. The amount of up to 101m euros or, uh, 101m euros remained active, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina did not exclude those funds, but the donors who promised 584m euros did not all pay those funds. One part of the funds due to the migrant crisis went on, probably to the other side, so that in the Development Bank, as far as we have information, a session of the Development Bank's Management Board will be held in December, it is considered to continue aid for at least two states -- Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, since they still have the largest number of unresolved issues and the largest number of communication to return has been shown between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. When it comes to this, we are now obliged to respect this amount up to 41 million, and of course the door is open, if we show both the ability and to build and spend practically these funds, for further investment. We are told there are still funds on IPA funds for these purposes, so it is held somewhere for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. We have such information, but in any case we will try to show by this relationship that we can do it, because there was practically no donor trust that we will succeed or that we will still be able to realise this project, which is why they did not immediately put that money into that amount. So it is our obligation to prove ourselves ready, which we do, and to build these facilities by the end of 2017 and so that we can further withdraw these funds. Such a condition was later set. What's important in this whole thing, this is a report that was done earlier, it's already a different situation on the ground, because we have signed agreements, which so far has not been, with the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia on the work of verifying the registered returnees, so we have practically implemented this agreement with the Republic of Croatia, and they have provided us with the number of users of 4,600 as much as has been reported for the return of Hrvat to Bosnia and Herzegovina, over 600 of those that we can include in this programme. Next, we'll follow that check, but now there's been a check on a certain number that we've been looking for for this first phase of programme realization. We have concluded such an agreement with Serbia and mainly, this one, and the checks will be completed by the end of the tenth month in Serbia. 35 And what has been done so far and as checks have been carried out, here is the immediate answer to the distinguished delegate Martin Raguž, is that practically the countries in which our refugees have been doing this first check, they have asked if they have registered property in Croatia specifically, because this is the project that has been completed before, whether they have registered property, whether they have resolved the question of any family household member that they have solved it in some other way, and if it is such candidates for return or inclusion in this programme were excluded. Unfortunately, there are still those who are in very unconditional conditions in Croatia, a large number, and the check continues to run, so we will surely respect this criterion that we have divided evenly between the constituent peoples for return, and that is now at this stage by six hundred. When it comes to checking from Serbia, so far we have only worked on checking for refugees who have come from Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina and are mostly working on these, facilities that are local, which will mean building local integration buildings in Republika Srpska, and the next phase of the check comes from Serbia under a signed agreement. Mostly Bošnjak were taken from the category of internally displaced persons, one number was both Hrvat and Srbin who had applied and who had long waited for that return, on their return home, so that practically all of these, all of these user checks were carried out by the competent authorities, here away from the entity, and in the end they all founded one joint commission formed as an inter-resor body and given to UNHCR who was subsequently still checking, according to its further rounds of verification, these users. So we hope that there were no mistakes, that we just did past the donor's request, and that's still strictly their request, because practically our law speaks of the right to return, we're not looking at this possibility of whether someone built the house, but we're renewing the facilities according to our law. But here you go to conditions for returnees where you're practically just looking for those in the most endangered category, and that's that they haven't managed to solve their housing problem in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2276	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Information on the implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank on the Regional Programme for Housing Management. There are 15 delegates present – for 15, without opposition and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 votes to, without and without abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I agree on the implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Programme for Housing Management has been adopted into knowledge. Moving to point 22, that's it, Ad. 22. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January – December 2015, material of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, issue: 03,03/14-16-1745/16, since 22.06.2016 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission has received knowledge of the Information. The House of Representatives received information at the 33rd session, held on 19.07.2016. 36 I give the word to Ljilja Zovko, the chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Nations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2278	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2279	It's like the report. I'll give the applicant the information if he's present, if he wants to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Nebojša Radmanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2280	Ladies and gentlemen, delegates. I'm sure there's a document in front of us that needs to give us special attention. It triggers special attention because I personally think the parts of this document are terrifying. I don't usually participate in debates when it comes to documents that are received to knowledge, but there are things that we are responsible for, and I'm sure we have to point out. In fact, spending on people's money may be the most responsible job of politicians, which is what I was talking about when we adopted the budget, and it is not for no reason everywhere in the world that parliaments are responsible for citizens' resources. And we're responsible for this, and when we let someone spend those funds on how they come to mind, we're responsible, and everyone who calls us for it has a right, no matter how many votes we've adopted budgets. When you look here, you will see that almost all the budget reserves have been spent without any criteria, which no one should ever provide to anyone, especially it looks terrible when you see 10% of the budget reserves spent by six people, no matter what functions they are in, with no criteria and no responsibility whatsoever. I think this needs to be provided to see all citizens, to show who and how they spend their resources, because they're the resources of all citizens. We're going to have a hard time fixing this, and we might have a chance at this. Let us oblige the Council of Ministers to make criteria for spending these funds and, of course, limit the possibility of individual spending. You won't find anywhere in the world that six people have the right to spend money and not ask anyone how or why. And then you find that some organizations get two basics from the same current reserve, and no one explains anything to anyone. My report is actually an appeal to try and fix what's already terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2281	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Oh, here's the theme repeated year after year, and it's hard to take the impression that Mr. Radmanović is right when he says that here is a matter of criteria. I think this should be lifted as a possibility. However, it would be correct if Mr. Radmanović had suggested the same thing as a member of the Bureau at the time when he had the means, but here is not 37 problem, it is not a topic, there is no camera, I mean we speak practically between us. We should, when adopting the next budget on this item, leave zero or arrange that this budget reserve exists in case it is not used for extraordinary or not knowing the circumstances, so the reserve, this one, is being returned to budgetary flows, planned in the budget for the following year. This is really when you look at if there's any violations of Dayton jurisdiction here. What does some institutions have to do with the common authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is calling, with educational institutions, with religious institutions, with sports institutions, with everything that is the jurisdiction of canton, municipalities, cities, etc., etc. I don't understand how some minister or what he is, a member of the Bureau can make a decision to help one day's kindergarten and not help another, which, I guess, is a little more begging. So, this is, I think, the result of some mentality that we have to deal with, which is that of the carriers of certain functions, right what would sometimes be said in some ancient time of Hadji, so that so from a bag that is available to them their real image on, I would say first of all, to the people's money. This is not just a problem at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this problem is expressed at entity level. I think somewhere around 5 million over a few years the president of Republika Srpska used the same things, so he says this year we'll deal with, fight this disease, but we won't fight these five, so we'll see next year what diseases we'll be fighting, just like it's some institute. And who decided that? They decided incompetent people. So then there's still some donor nights... it's all expensive, nothing more than a media promotion. So, in the pile of hypocrisy that exists in this country, this is, this is, as it is said, the cherry on top of that bad cream, and you don't see that the country is composed so, its internal relations, that those who are in power, here at the disposal of these things, are making out of themselves what they aren't and dealing with things that aren't prescribed by their rules that determine their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2283	Thank you very much. Mr. Sredoje Nović has a word. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] A replica, Mr. Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2285	Just to remind all of us of what I said, and it refers to what Mr. Tadić was saying. We're in charge of this budget, there may be other budgets, but our responsibility is this budget, which is why I was talking about it. And it was unnecessary to look specifically at what the President of the Republic is doing. By the way, there are criteria for that, for spending the funds you've been talking about, and I think you already know that. But another interesting thing Mr. Tadić said – to remove these funds. This is not possible when the budget is planned, in all budgets in the world there is a current budget reserve, but it is known basically why it is spent, for unplanned, for emergency situations, for those budget consumers who could not have a plan at that time, and it is less relatively simple. But something like this can't happen again, and we can't let that happen. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2286	Thank you. Mr. Tadić has the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2287	Yes, so that's what I said in what I said, which is that there has to be a budget reserve only if it's not spent must be returned to the budget, it can't be distributed to this kind of thing and that in the course of spending the financial year it's used for this kind of thing. And I didn't accidentally mention entity officials, either because this is a pattern code, let's say all those who carry out certain duties that they want to give some kind of a halo of holiness or I don't know, uh, what position to be some sort of orientation, etc., etc., so when it doesn't go then, then politically, then a little bit of humanitarian work improves the impression, and yet on the burden of the citizens, on the burden of the taxpayers and the burden of everything else. So, no one in any cabinet is competent to say what disease is priority, I guess we have a health ministry for that, we have a health care fund. There is also no competent member of the Bureau to say whether this or that religious community needs assistance in one way or another, so we have ministries dealing with it, we have contracts that determine these issues, etc., etc. So, I just keep saying this, so these funds are for personal promotion to those covered by the law as users of these funds, and that kind of political promotion is not good for anyone, because firstly, it is unfair, secondly, completely unrelated to the criteria that are necessary for transparency when it comes to and the availability of these funds to be achieved and to achieve justice in relation to their availability, and hence, here as legislators, I guess we feel that we should stop it. And here we are, here we are all about these things. What's the problem with this report, so I mean, what, not what's the problem but what's the point with this report? It is true, so today it is logical to vote for it, because at least they gave us accurate information, so we got it from the competent authority, it is methodologically correct and contains accurate information. We could vote against him to be incorrect, but voting for this report because it's true we're actually giving the ground that tomorrow when we solve the budget we find somewhere in that law of space to say that it can't be used for these things, but that if it isn't spent it goes into the next year as a budget reserve that isn't realised.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2288	Thank you. Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2289	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Accepting what the distinguished delegates have said, I will only say a few sentences and remind you all, and above all, the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what is in the law, so it is said – the funds of the current reserve can be used to finance urgent, extraordinary expenditures, programmes that are not included in the budget. Clearly, the decadent stand for which purposes can be used. So that I don't read to you any further, financing costs and international disputes, arbitration, financing new institutions that have acquired the status of a budgetary user, grants to non-profit organisations. What can we say? Indeed, none of these allocations are urgent, nor are they extraordinary, nor are the programmes that were to be included in the budget. 10% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budgets imagine what it means, no matter who it is, the colleagues said, they're dealing with other people's money in 39 this way. Are we wondering where the D.A.'s office is now? As we keep talking about corruption out there, we're talking about crime somewhere, we're talking about, I don't know what, this is legal taking someone else's money. I can't really accept it, I fully join my colleagues who say this is obviously a relic of the past, the truth was smaller, so now it's wider. I expect in 2017 that, instead of six, there will probably be twelve people who will also increase their own personal, private and miraculous fund, let us not forget one thing, in the budget we have grants that are particularly regulated, a grant for sport, a grant for culture, a grant for non-profits and a grant for international co-operation, these are grants that are legally established. It is shared, and should be shared according to certain criteria, and I will not look back on these grants now, because I took the criteria that were adopted for 2015, the Council of Ministers brought, so I am the ones to whom they were given, and I am surprised to tell you that there are dozens that do not meet those criteria with any element. That's inadmissible. But here, I'm going to put aside the grants, now that we look at the grants that, according to which they were given a grant per grant, so let's look at the Council of Ministers past the grenades, giving these to some, some of these same institutions, etc., so the members, these six, the six, were also mildly inclined, so when we mix it up a little bit more and we see it then it's purely national, exclusively regional, exclusively party. It's inadmissible, it's inadmissible that we do it that way, you spend your own money and we spend whatever we want. He has the right to, well, so far we've been giving these resources to give to the sons of individuals studying abroad to make graduate work, an affair. So who can send a son abroad to study, so we give him a degree, then I have nothing to say about it. I think we're in one turning point whether we're going to change things or not. It would be true, so let's say, well maybe a huge, huge turnoff if Mr. President Tadić's proposal were to come true, so that in the 2017 budget we don't find these items of these 10% belonging to individuals, and if we need to increase the fund of grenades and a little wider set of criteria. And I've been doing this for a long time, not with the Council of Ministers to adopt, this Parliamentary Assembly to adopt the criteria under which several million-dollar funds will be shared. If we are responsible for the budget, then let us also be responsible for the distribution, and let us influence it in a civilized way. I think we need to turn a little bit of reality, I don't, I also share my opinion that no one in this country can take, stick their hand in the government register, and give it to whoever they want. This was once called abuse of official office in my day, and this was once in line with the Code of Criminal Procedure, or Criminal Law. Now it's probably no longer a crime, because different ways, methods, and nothing more is a crime, see why people sometimes lie in prison. I'm not going to say that this is illegal because we adopted it in the budget, we gave it to people that legally, legitimately managed it, they spent it, they gave it to whoever they wanted, and I don't want to talk here, there wouldn't be a correct vision of many who got it, and there could be a lot of things to get out of this conclusion who did and why they got this kind of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2290	Thank you. Mr. Halid Genjac has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2291	I thank the chairman. It is true that the budget reserve is mandatory and it is estimated by our law that the current reserves must not exceed 3%. And about in the current budget, our budget reserve is about 6.700,000 and it is true for what purposes it can be used for anything, as stated in the previous discussion 40. However, several mandates earlier were established one patent, not now established, it was long ago established and we know which majority was, a patent was established to be made out of the mandatory budget reserve, and it was introduced in the law, and in this law it was introduced, and that is the law that we adopted, that of that budget reserve, it was first about 4%, and now it's 6%, and that is 613,000 in total. Exceptionally, out of these 6,700,000 613,000, this law is granted to members of the Bureau and the College of the Council of Ministers. So members of the Bureau have an individual eye, each of which is 124,000 each and members of the Council of Ministers each individually about 82,000 marks available. And it was by law that members of the Bureau each individual made a decision on the criteria for the allocation of funds for the intervention of the current reserve... On the basis of a request from a legal or natural person to whom the funds will be allocated, in accordance with this paragraph, a member of the Bureau shall make a decision in particular. Decisions shall be taken in the "Official Messenger" and the Ministry of Finance shall implement the decisions. It is the same for the College, or the Council of Ministers. It was unrealistic to expect when we passed a law like this, and this kind of thing is nothing more than what we have in the report. I think the information that's being delivered to us on this puts us in a position to be part of this. It was also given by law to members of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers the opportunity to deploy, and they acted under the law. And there's obviously nowhere to go that the law has been broken, but, and that's the law that we've passed, and which, and practice, based on the practice that has already been established. I think what we have in these reports, this is for 2015, will follow and, of course, warns us that some kind of criteria should be established. So if these are also the resources available for decisions in particular, I think that when Parliament adopts the Budget and the Budget Law, it should go in the direction of setting criteria, precisely for the reason that this institute responds to its own intention which can be good but which can in practice be laundered. That's why this Use Report, the correct title of this text would be a report on the use of part of the budget reserve, because the budget reserve is far bigger, this is only part of the budget reserve, I can't support this report, I can't be against it, because it's done by law. I'm left with restraint, because this information is information that we're aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2292	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2293	The false quote of Mr. Genjac, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is a practice from before. The correct thing to say would be, in part, this practice by some former government. For the first time the Presidency has shared these funds, it's never worked before, it's not hard to check, the first time we've introduced it. It is true that in previous periods, against which I was personally, but here it is not important,... the chairman and two deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers had this right, but the presidency for the first time in this term. So it's the practice of this government, so these majority. I'm just saying this to keep a record.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2294	Thank you very much. 41 Mr. Genjac, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2295	So, just because practice was previously established as a practice, as a way, as a possibility of making available on the basis of individual decisions, it is part of the budget reserve that established practice. I agree that it is a partially established practice, but it is seen that in these things it is partly very fast to become complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2296	Thank you. Mr. Ognjen Tadić has the wrong quote, we don't know whose but we'll find out.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2297	Well, it's hard to find in our Rules of Procedure exactly what this would determine but it is actually a discussion first of all, and basically I think you'll quite agree with what I'm about to say. So, we talked nicely, if I had to say maybe we made a deal, but so we could realize what we were talking about, so that we wouldn't be brought into a variety of teats so that Budget would be 31.12 again, under the pretext that it should be adopted immediately, and through its knees, someone..., etc., I'll remind you of Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which says that after the adoption of the House of Representatives, the Bill on Budget House, our House, is delivered by 15 November at the latest. So, if there are any representatives of the Council of Ministers here, I see one, and I ask you, since only one is present, to adopt a proposal for a conclusion that I will now propose on this item of the agenda, which reads as follows: – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH invites the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the House of Representatives to respect the deadlines for the adoption of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to avoid practices from earlier years that have affected trust both in the budget and in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And to direct it immediately to the Presidency, to the House of Representatives and to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2298	Thank you very much. You're going to write this proposal a conclusion, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2299	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2300	Okay. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January – December 2015. Of the 15 delegates present, 8.3 versus, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 7 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions, Republika Srpska 1 for, 3 against, and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. 42 Let's go to the second round. We're like the College in the form of a commission, so we haven't been able to reach agreement, so I'm putting it back to the vote. Of the 15 delegates present, 9.3 against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 1 for, 3 against, and 1 abstention. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, and I find that the information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January – December 2015 has been received. We have this proposal from Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Is there any need to read it again? Okay. I am putting to the vote the proposal of Mr. Ognjen Tadić's conclusion that we respect the law. Of the 15 delegates present, for 14, no votes against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, and without abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, and I realize that we adopted this proposal. Moving to point 23, that's it, Ad. 23. Report on the designation of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, Commission material for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency, No. 01.02-34-1-932/16, of 13.07.2016 The Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption at the session held on 13 July 2016 established and provided the Representative House and the People's House with a proposal for a list of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. In line with the Commission's proposal for a list of candidates for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, today we need to declare on the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. The House of Representatives appointed Hasim Šabotić as director and Dragan Slipac and Dragan Anđelić as deputy director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption at the 34th session, held on 01.08.2016. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, who was appointed by the Interim Commission as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2302	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2303	It's like the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have a report. I'm closing the debate. 43 I am voting on a list of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, and in line with the Commission's proposal for a list of candidates to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency. Of the 15 delegates present, is 9 against, Mr. Genjac, did you vote correctly?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2304	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2305	Wrong. Shall we do it again? We repeat the vote. Of the 15 delegates present, 10.3 against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, without abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, I find that we have appointed Hasim Šabotić as director, and Dragan Slipac and Dragan Anđelić as deputy director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Moving to point 24, Ad. 24. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, Proposer: Joint College of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, issue: 01,02-34-1-1838-3/16, since 20.07.2016 The joint college of the two homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly established a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the conduct of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency in which Safet Softić, Ognjen Tadić and Zdenka Džambas were proposed from the House of Nations. At its 34th session, held on 01.08.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the conduct of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency in which Nenad Lalić, Mirsad Đonlagić and Predrag Kožul were appointed from the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word about this point? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 15 delegates present, there were 12, without votes against, with 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, without votes against, with 3 abstentions. There is a general majority and there is an entity majority, so I agree that we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher 44 Education and Quality Insurance in which we appointed Safet Softić, Ognjen Tadić and Zdenka Džambas from the House of People. I suggest we bring together the debate and the statement on points 25 to 28, including item 28 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Who's up for this proposal? We can approach the vote since we don't have an application for a hearing. So we're voting on the unification of the debate. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 13, no votes against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, so I realize that we have adopted the conclusion that this debate is united. Ad. 25. - 28. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2308	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-31-0.u2309	He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have a report. I'm closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the agreement and the agreement between 25 and 28 points, including the 28th item of the agenda. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 14, no votes against, and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without opposition, and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, and without abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreement and the agreement between the 25th and the 28th points, including the 28th agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that we have completed the 22nd session of the House of Peoples, I hereby conclude the 22nd session. You will be informed of the date on which the next session is held. Thank you very much. Session completed at 14:50 p.m.
