ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11443	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 26th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I ask all MPs and MPs before we proceed with the session to register neatly. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, the Ombudsman for Human Rights, the BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner and representatives of the Committee for Appeals of the citizens of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present guests and representatives. BiH Human Rights and Refugees Minister Semiha Borovac and BiH Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Predrag Jović sent a notice that they are unable to participate at the 26th session of the House, and that the meeting will be attended by an adviser to the minister, Mr Kemo Sarač. BiH Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić has sent a notice that he is unable to participate in the 26th session of the House due to his official trip. The absence was justified by Staša Košarac's representative. According to the information service, the session is attended by 37 MPs. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168 of the Treaty on the BiH Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedures have been sent by the following representatives: Dušanka Majkić to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; Borislav Bojić to the chairman of the Council of Ministers; Safet Demirović to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Borjana Rančić to the BiH Defence Minister; Predrag Kožul to the izbjeglica ljudski pravo of BiH, Senad Šepić to the chairman of the Council of Ministers; Damir Bećirović to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Amir Fazlić to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH: Mirsad Đonlagić to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Saša Magazinović to the BiH Council of Ministers; Diana Zelenika to the Minister of Communications and Ministers of BiH Ministers of BiH, Damir Bećir Arnaut to the Council of BiH Ministerst. 2 These announcements are in accordance with Article 168. Rules of Procedure, delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct television transmission of this part of the session has been secured, in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The questions are lined up according to the order of arrival, and the MPs will present them with that order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to MPs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11444	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests. You see, from what the chairman read, you can see how many questions were addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. That's because it's being hit by malar, let's say, here's the most common thing in these benches, unlike the other ministers, we don't get to see very often, so then we grab the straw to get an answer from those who come to the sessions. I tried on several occasions to ask a question addressed to the Foreign Ministry, but I didn't have a chance, as the minister is mostly not at the sessions. Here, today he is here, so if he is, he can be authorized by the chairman of the Council of Ministers to give the answer that is related to his portfolio. So, I wanted to say that I have never been able to get, therefore, that answer that says what the state of the DKP of the Bosnia and Herzegovina network is, in what state it is, and that is why I am forced to ask such questions on a partial basis. This time my question concerns the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomatic missions, which are six. I'm really asking to be told what's the state of affairs when it comes to human human personnel structure, how full of it, how much is it about... diplomats who came from the MIP and got their trade and experience, and how many people who suddenly came from different places? So let's see who's leading us and what our completion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomatic missions is in the world. So then I'll have a chance at the next sessions to set up a DKP network. In the hope that I will get this answer, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11445	A comment, that is, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11446	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11447	Foreign Minister. Here you go, Minister Crnadak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11448	Dear members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here, for who knows which time I listen to Mrs. Majkić with some comments about attending and not attending the session, I will refrain from commenting on this and comment on it later, outside of this room. As far as this question is concerned, I have to admit that I absolutely do not understand what is the specific question of Mrs. Majkić. If the question is what is the condition, what is the quality of the personnel, it is very difficult to answer in 2 minutes, requires a very serious debate. Of course, as far as I'm concerned, one assessment would be that, as in any other ministry and as in any other job, you have those who work more and those who do less. You have those who are more valuable and those 3 who are less valuable, those who are more committed to the work and those who are less committed to the work. And it's very hard to give one of those grades. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to do it by now, or maybe we didn't know how to do it, in these last 20 years to get some kind of diplomatic academy where we would have had a better approach to training our diplomats, but what I can say is safe in my plan and that we will certainly have some kind of start-up of that kind of activity within our ministry with, above all, the transfer of new knowledge aimed at younger secret-level diplomats and that's something certain that's going to happen in accordance with our budget and our opportunities this year. So here's the only grade I can give in this way. As for the commentary that there is no serious DKP analysis, I have to tell you, I wanted to inform you that in December of last year I had a working-consultative meeting with the Bureau members and we are already working on the records from that meeting. Three things were on the table as main topics – new guidelines for foreign policy, precisely this analysis of the DKP network with the possibility of closing existing and opening new and new laws, i.e. the Foreign Affairs Act. As regards the analysis of the DKP network, given the Bureau's exclusive competence when it comes to opening and closing new embassies, it is impossible to handle without them, and we are working on it, and I am sure that this material will be ready very soon, and then you will decide, as a high House, in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and whether and in what way you will have it here in one of your sessions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11449	Thank you, Minister. Before I give my word for comment, I ask all representatives and members of the Council of Ministers who will respond to the time given to the Rules of Procedure. Keep in mind that we have 19 parliamentary questions. Representative's comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11450	So, I'm sorry that this is a superficial response, I'm sorry that the minister didn't understand, when he wonders what the situation in the missions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world is, from the aspect of its fullness, its national structure, the quality of the personnel working there. I am sorry that this question is not clear and I am sorry that the minister says that he will comment on it outside this space. I think it should be a little bit more respect for the MPs, because it's not easy sitting in this bench, it's been tried by the minister himself, so he saw that it's not very easy, that it takes a lot of votes to come to this place here. So I demand that with more attention and respect for the MPs here, as I fully respect the position he is doing, but I also ask that such an important question be raised. I demand that, on this point, precise information be provided in a written manner and subsequently delivered to me, so that the Foreign Affairs Commission has also never dealt with this issue, and I look forward to this material that should be the result of the joint work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11451	I give my word to Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11452	...gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Very short. Therefore, among other things, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples held a debate at their meetings and on the Information of the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security regarding the disposal of radioactive waste in the Trade Mountain. On a proposal from the Joint Defence and Security Commission, homes adopted a set of conclusions submitted to the Council of Ministers. My question is, so – What is done or what have you done about the issue of realisation of Conclusion 2 which sets out the following: (a) A working group should be formed to monitor the state of activity in relation to the possible construction of a nuclear waste dump in the place of the Shop Mountain, the Municipality of Dvor; (b) The members of the working group should be representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security and the relevant entity ministries and local communities; (c) The chairman of the working groups should be contacted by persons for the EP Convention; d) The Working Group should form the Council of Ministers of BiH? So the issue is quite concrete about forming a working group, which is the obligation of the Council of Ministers. Very short and very precise.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11453	The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11454	I welcome the respected leadership of the House, as well as all present representatives, the media and my colleagues. As regards the issue of the honourable representative, they may say that the State Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security has prepared one act of appointment of a working group discussed at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers. However, we have estimated that it is indeed a large task force that would number 19, or 20, members, and we have returned that material to further work in terms of the possible creation of a more efficient working group that could operationally and professionally finish the work it will receive or which is placed in the spectrum of its competence. Namely, the State Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security sent the necessary requests to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Ecology of Republika Srpska and the Federal Ministry of Environment of Tourism as soon as Parliament concluded last month. Of course, not all the institutions responded immediately and within the scheduled time limit, we have received the names of those who are being proposed, but among other things from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mrs Avanda Mandić and Igor Jevtić, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Nijaz Čardaklija, Representatives of Dijana Zelenika, Borislav Bojić and jasmin Emrić, from the House of Peoples Mario Karamatić, Sifet Podžić and Dragutin Rodić, from Republika Srpska were 8 proposed candidates plus Minister Srebrenka Golić, who should be appointed as contact persons for the EP convention for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the material will be returned to the Council of Ministers, probably at one of the next two sessions. Right after that, we will form a group, 5 give it clear tasks and continue very active participation in this issue that is extremely important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can only remind myself, here in 5 seconds, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has long ratified the Joint Convention on the Security of Exhausted Fuel Management and Safety of Radioactive Waste Management and by this Convention, of course, it must be directly involved in all activities related to the location of nuclear waste disposal. Such a meeting will already be tomorrow, or the day after the representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina will take part in a meeting in connection with the process of adopting a strategic impact assessment on the environment of the national programme of the Republic of Croatia. This was, of course, the subject of the talks I had with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. It was also the topic of the talks and when visiting members of the Presidency a few days ago to the Republic of Croatia, so we will be very actively following this topic, because we believe that both the international conventions and the reasons and arguments that we make on the side of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it would be extremely unusual for such waste to be driven almost 200 km away and delayed to the border with another country. As we all know, the nuclear power plant has extended its work until 2043, and according to international conventions, when it completes its work, the countries that are the founders of such power plants take over half of the spent waste and, of course, the practice everywhere in the world is that it is being delayed right in the circle, i.e. in the spatial coverage of what was related to the work of the nuclear power plant itself, and not in any way riding on the border with a neighbouring country. We think we have strong arguments and that's how it's gonna end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11455	Thank you, President, Mr. Zvizdić. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11456	Very short. I am pleased with this answer, and in particular with the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a strong argument that can support the facts of which the Council of Ministers' chairman spoke. So it's important that there is no inaction, that all the necessary activities are taken in time and only the formation of a working group. Finally, certain information is also needed that the institutions did not provide their proposals in time so that the Council of Ministers could simply finish its work. Thank you for your response, and I expect Bosnia and Herzegovina to do everything in its obligation and on this very important issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11457	Thank you. I give the word to Representative Safer Demirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11458	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, I welcome everyone present in the O.R. 6 My question is: Is the Council of Ministers planning, that is, when Bosnia and Herzegovina could receive the Fire Protection Act? Of course, I'm obliged to make a brief comment. At the level of entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are such laws and there is regulated fire protection, but at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina we have institutions, we have facilities, we have places where there are funds that are prone to outbreaks and fires, and in such things, and in such institutions, it is dealt with by some internal acts, instructions or some rules, even with some to commit to the Fire Protection Act from the former SFRY. I think this law should be passed at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here I am, asking the Council of Ministers if he's thinking about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11459	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11460	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. So, in 2014, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted a document titled "Study on Fires of the Forest in Bosnia and Herzegovina", which was actually made up of a professional working group, approved by the Council of Ministers. The section had 13 members, and they mainly came from that area which could have been quite measured on this aspect of the study of forest fires in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but unfortunately despite the efforts of the working group, and the suggestion that, and mentioning the possibility of making fire protection laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all proposals were rejected, or not accepted by representatives of Republika Srpska, with the reason that there is already legislation at the entity level and cantonal level, and that any action on the plan to protect fires at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been carried out illegally transposing jurisdiction from entity to state level, calling indeed on a large number of regulations that regulate this area at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods at the level of Federation, the law on the protection of the security and protection of the security of the environment, the security of the environment and the environment, the law of the law of the law of the Republic, and the law of the law of the law of the Republic of the Republic, the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, the law of the Republic of the Republic, the law, the law of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the Republic, the Republic, the law of the law of the law of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the law, the law, the law of the law of the Republic of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the So, this Study is, of course, still active, we will, except, therefore, membership in this task force, those who have been closely tied to the profession and the question of protecting the fire and the question of quality and protection of the forests themselves, hire and part of the lawyers who should make or define legal assumptions for the possible adoption of such a law. And if there really are constitutional and legal, real constitutional and legal assumptions that one law on the protection of fires at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be brought together to address this issue in an integrated and comprehensive manner, while respecting the powers at lower levels of government, the Council of Ministers is certainly ready to enter into the making of this law, but when we get a legal opinion on this Study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11461	Thank you, President. A comment. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11462	Of course, I'll make a quick comment. I expected this answer and of course I am aware of the level of competence that entities have, but in this way I wanted to point out what it is, how many serious things there are at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina on this European path that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to do. Here, let's say, apart from this Fire Protection Act, we don't have a Labour Protection Act. These are two extremely important laws for every country, and these are things that Bosnia and Herzegovina certainly expect us to do. This is for us to think about seeing everything that we do in the future... I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11463	I give my word to agent Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11464	Thank you very much. Respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, distinguished guests. I refer the question to the Minister of Defence – Have you prepared and published tenders for the purchase of goods and services necessary for the operation of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces for 2016? The BiH institution's budget has been adopted, a basic assumption for tendering for the supply of goods and services necessary for the functioning of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Did you do it? Given that every year, through the reports of the relevant Commissions and the Commission on Finance, as well as the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, so also the audit reports, we see that the budget for the Ministry of Defence is not being realised and that there are problems with the conduct of the tender. Timely activities in 2016 would reduce the repetition of errors from previous years.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11465	Thank you. Defence Minister Marina Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11466	Honorable president, distinguished MPs and MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The question I received, meaning through the service, from Mr Hazim Rančić, a representative at the House of Representatives, for me that was delivered, was a question – I will ask the Minister of Defence about the launch of a tender for the purchase of goods and services in 2016. Based on this question that has been delivered to me as defence minister, I was not sure what I should answer to Mr. Rančić, but I thank him and ask him this question that he has now raised to me in writing, I will fully provide him with all the information in writing, respecting the date when we adopted the procurement plan, respecting how much we have already made and signed the report, how much we have announced the tender and to what extent the budget for 2016 is already contained and how much resources we already have available. So, the question that was delivered to me, I repeat, was – I will ask the Minister of Defence about the launch of a tender for supply of goods and services in 2016. Based on this submitted question, I couldn't prepare 8 for anything concrete. I hope you understand why I cannot answer your question in detail at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11467	Thank you, Minister. A comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11468	I am not satisfied with this response because this response is not based on Articles 171 and 172. The Rules of Procedure, or 168, as you were reading the informal, refined version of which we cannot call upon. Articles 171 and 172 discuss the announcement of an oral question and the indications of an area from which the MP will ask an oral question. That's what I did. So, I said, I'm going to ask the secretary of defense about the launch of a supply and supply tender in 2016. And the question is, have you done it? The Minister knows whether or not she did it. And it can simply say that we are, or yes, we are, or we are 1,2.5 of possible 20 or 50. So, the minister can say on the basis of the announcements. This is just one type of state certificate
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11469	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11470	at the Ministry of Defence and our thematic session, as we announced 30. that we would discuss, and at the Commission's request for defence and security, including the procurement procedures at the Ministry of Defence. But it was possible to answer today whether or not they were prepared and to announce the tenders. March is the month, unless it is done on time, time flows, later procurements are extended contracts, there are no goods and services for the Armed Forces, for the Ministry of Defence and then the functioning of the Ministry and the Armed Forces is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11471	I give my word to Agent Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11472	My colleagues and colleagues, all the distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you and wish you successful work. I ask the question to the Ministry and the Minister of Justice, in hopes that in communication with the competent judicial authorities, primarily the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, they will be able to inform us, as well as the interested public, of relevant information about the following. These days, she was 21 years old from the disappearance of HVO General Vlade Šantić. He was last seen at the Bihaćko Hotel "Sedra" from where he was taken by members of the 5th BiH Army Military Police Corps. To this day, it is not clear about the fate of General Šantić. The BiH prosecutor's office has dropped the case to the level of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and civil crime. I request information on the status and fate of the investigation in this case, information whether the BiH Prosecutor's Office is intending to retake this case, given the time and the status of the persons in the case, but as an apparent lack of interest in resolving this case from the competent judicial authorities now. 9 The case is further won on the topic by attacking General Šantić's son recently in Mostar, which has further upset the public. Of course, in this case, the attack, I do not want to speculate here, but to call the police authorities on a high-quality and timely investigation, but at the same time the same public is upset with the information we learn from the media daily, it is that the BiH Prosecutor's Office was involved in pressing charges against members of the HVO for events in Mostar in 1993 as an independent expert of the BiH Army's military security officer from that time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11473	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11474	If so, does the BiH Prosecutor's Office hold this choice of experts to contribute to an impartial, objective and relevant examination of the facts and to gain so much trust in the work of BiH's judicial institutions. The Justice Department is, as I say, only here for business restrictions on the link to asking this question, so I don't expect it to be relevant to answer my question here, but I believe it was important to ask it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11475	Answer, Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11476	Honorable president, distinguished MPs, MPs, Council of Ministers colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. According to information we have managed to collect in time since receiving the announced parliamentary issue, the County Prosecutor's Office in Bihac was in '96. The year received a report on the murder committed by Article 171(2) of the point (a) of former KZ of the Federation of BiH, which took place in Bihac on 09.03.1995, to the detriment of the damaged Major General of the Vlade of Šantić, commander of HVO Bihac. After the evidence was collected in 2000, the County Prosecutor's Office in Bihaq filed an indictment which was not confirmed by the County Court in Bihaq and which is why the investigation was continued in the same case, with the aim of collecting quality evidence to confirm a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence. Given that the case was specific, the BiH prosecutor's office was sent in 2007 to assess the crime of war crimes or the crime of murder. The BiH Prosecutor's Office worked on the same case until the beginning of 2013, and then the same case was delivered to the Federal Prosecutor's Office with the conclusion that it was not a crime of war crime, which is why the case was returned to the County Prosecutor's Office in Bihac in February 2013. The County Prosecutor's Office is in 2013/2014. A year together with the Federation of BiH's MUP has taken on a number of investigative and eshumation activities aimed at gathering evidence, and finding the remains of General Vlade Šantić. Mortal remains so far have not been found, which in any case makes it difficult to investigate and prove the facts of the murder of General Šantić. Since the summer of 2014, the testimony of certain witnesses has been questioned out of fear, and the pressures that have been put on them, and therefore clearly the investigation has slowed down in terms of the collection of quality evidence. However, regardless of all the circumstances, the County Prosecutor's Office has so far managed to collect evidence resulting in a higher 10 degree of suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed, which is why the same case is in the final stage and which will be ended after further art is committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11477	Commentary, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11478	I thank the Minister and the Ministry and those who are both in charge of effort and information that speak for themselves. I am truly aware that by asking a complete question, I am going to go to a slippery terrain and the danger of being given any pressure, any interference in the business, the affairs of the judiciary, but I am even more aware that, when it comes to these very sensitive issues concerning events of war years, we need and need an objective, unbiased, balanced approach, because every indication that it is different on a daily basis is complicated by the political and social situation in this country and it permanently points us to a look back, and we are aware that we have to look forward forward in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11479	I give my word to Senator Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11480	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So my question is to the Council of Ministers, Chairman Zvizdić – What does the Council of Ministers of BiH do specifically to draft and adopt laws prohibiting the activities of organisations that spread national, religious, ethnic, racial and any other form of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina? A brief explanation. We are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, often witnessing hate speech and particularly attacking journalists. Last in a series of cases, Višegrad's ravnogorski Chetnik Movement, a primitive savage attack on N1 and Federal TV journalists. There have been these and similar attacks before, and we always have a current reaction, so we always do, the government just deals with the immediate ceasefire, and we just deal with... we try to treat the wound, and we don't act like there's a wound or there's no disease. So, I think that's why we're moving forward, we can't move forward more bravely, we often look back a lot, and we look back a little. Recently, we had a debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly on my initiative on the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina with an emphasis on attacks on journalists with a proposal for measures. At that time, the EU said that we were also back in the area unlike many others where we had progressed. We are all witnessing that these things, because they are some kind of system situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and about someone... that we have in the country and that's slow going. So I don't have any information about this initiative of mine regarding the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina either. And that's why I believe that from this last case in Visegrad you can see how important it is to have this proactive approach, to sort of systematically organise ourselves, to act systemically, to prevent it, because it's better to prevent it than to treat it, and that, in this way, we act in the next period. So I suggest that, here we have a law that will make it impossible for any organization to act and from any nation that deals and spreads hate ethnic, religious, national and any other kind of hatred, such a proactive approach would put us in a position that we don't have a situation 11
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11481	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11482	what we recently had in Visegrad and to turn to the future and the EU. So that's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11483	Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11484	Thank you. I would like to say about the issue raised by the distinguished representative Šepić that the Council of Ministers' 2016 programme plans to ban the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and all other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is foreseen as the Council of Ministers' programming tasks with a deadline to be adopted in September 2016, but here in mind and in the latest developments there is obviously a need to speed up the drafting of this law and to address once and definitely this issue which the MP also spoke of. So, according to the Activity Plan, an Interresor Working Group has been established so far, it will have a private meeting this month on 23rd, and work material has already been prepared for the meeting, as well as a dynamic plan for the implementation of this objective. The aim of this law will be to regulate the mode of action and the way of sanctioning by the competent institutions of all individuals, groups or organisations found to deal with or extend national, religious, racial or any other form of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, when drawing up this law, recommendations will be made by international bodies responsible for monitoring the human rights situation, which Bosnia and Herzegovina submits reports on the basis of the obligations we have made under international conventions, charters and pacts. I would like to remind you that a similar law was prepared by the Council of Ministers in the parliamentary procedure in 2010, that it was then not supported by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I hope that the same thing will not happen with the proposal of this new legislative solution, because we in the Council of Ministers would be very happy if such a law had been passed in 2010, so far there would be no group, no organisation that extends neither national nor religious, nor racial, nor any other form of hatred, and we think that this is extremely important for the stability and reconciliation processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11485	Thank you. Representative, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11486	So, thanks to the chairman, I also found out yesterday, too, in preparation for this response to something being done at the Council of Ministers. There have been a lot of initiatives in the past five, six years, so, and this is exactly what I'm talking about and I'm saying that we have a proactive approach, that we're acting proactively, and that before there's any problem that we've seen in the past 12 that we can appear, that we as a society can't do something about it. So we, Bosnia and Herzegovina must be a country where action, hatred, any form of hatred and attacks on journalists in general, socially and particularly legally unacceptable. That's why it's important that we have one such approach on that side. I believe that, here in the Parliamentary Assembly after all these experiences and after what failed a few years ago, we will now have enough responsibility for all of us to take that step and pass that law. I will also deliver my proposal, which I also have, to the task force, and I am ready to actively engage in the work of this task force, to contribute that we have a quality legal solution in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11487	I give my word to MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11488	Dear colleagues and colleagues. My question concerns the work of the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity and is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I will try to be as concrete as possible for the sake of time – Does the BiH State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, whose headquarters is in Tuzla, have official premises that it rents in other cities outside of the legally defined headquarters in Bosnia and Herzegovina? How much is paid for the space rented by Derk in Tuzla, and how much is the price of renting official premises in other cities: Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar. If some of the cities no longer pay the rent, would you ask me to answer – how much was paid annually and overall in the period from the establishment of the Derk until the cancellation of the work space? What decision and on the basis of which legal act was it regulated to rent official offices outside the Derk headquarters in Tuzla, which are the needs for this and whether the competent foreign trade and economic relations ministry, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are familiar with this? Namely, there is knowledge that the BiH Derk is renting official offices outside Tuzla in cities: Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, without any basis that is effectively acting illegally and which is shared by the Derk BiH on three national components. Money is being spent, and the competent institutions are not familiar with it at all. It is obvious, if so, that it is a classic use of the position and the authority of the members of the Commission. In addition, I would ask you to answer me – how many employees Derk has, how many are working in Tuzla, and how many are working outside of Derk headquarters in Tuzla, ie. in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar? And do DARK employees working outside Tuzla headquarters charge travel orders for the official trip to Sarajevo or Banja Luka for meetings in Tuzla? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11489	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, responds.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11490	Thanks for asking. I will try to give the most concise answer, although Derk is under, in fact, jurisdiction and judication of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not the BiH Council of Ministers. Of course, in your question there are seven sub-questions, so it's very little time to answer everything, but here's a very taxing one. So, the State Regulatory Commission for Electric 13 energy, as you know, is doing business in accordance with the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly in 2002. In this respect, it has been defined that the Derk will be an independent non-profit institution with legal personality status and will act in accordance with the principles of objectivity, transparency and equality. I am now undermining the particular issue of transparency because the Derk has an obligation to submit to the BiH Parliament on 1 December of each year its budget, to announce it to be transparent, and to deliver by 31 December of the current year to the BiH Parliament, and to the Ministry only in information, a report on its activities compared to the previous year. So, in this case, the Ministry is actually responsible only for creating general policy, but not for controlling the work itself, over the Derk itself. As far as your questions are concerned, what we can say at this time is that the official headquarters of the Derk according to the Statute is in Tuzla, that it is true that in the headquarters of Tuzla these rooms are leased, or rented and paid rent for them. Our Joint Affairs Service has informed us by means of an act that they have no information whatsoever on the surface, nor on the cost of renting these rooms. And of course we have unofficial information, and I can't confirm it, and I want them to be understood as unofficial information, that there is a possibility of renting rooms both in Banja Luka and Sarajevo. And in that sense, the Parliamentary Assembly may assign the Ministry to provide you with all the necessary information, to deliver it to you in writing or to do so by a competent committee of the Parliamentary Assembly which actually has control over the work of the Derk itself. If the ministry and the Council of Ministers are in charge, then we will do so, although they are not obliged to give such a type of report to the Council of Ministers, but to the committee responsible for the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11491	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11492	Of course this isn't, this was one week of answers, let's just say as Chairman Zvizdić said. I hope to get as many answers as possible in writing to the questions I have asked, and of course we will also see further through the committees and the Parliamentary Assembly what can be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11493	I give my word to MP Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11494	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. My question is next and is addressed to the Council of Ministers, specifically the chairman of the Council of Ministers – What has been done to realize the conclusions of the Council of Ministers adopted at the 34th session, held on 09.12.2015 and related to the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I do not know if there is a need for the public to visit these conclusions, the essence of the conclusions that a certain time limit was given for the institutions to move to the purchased areas, and one of the conclusions was that the limited square of the space they should be with, and with 14 given that we have different data, we have institutions that have very many squares, very many squares also use those institutions that have certain problems with accommodation. And I'm interested in that above all, because it's been given here for three months, and I'm interested in seeing how many institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are carrying out the Council of Ministers' conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11495	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, responds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11496	It's best if I stay behind the pay phone or not to go to gym this afternoon. Thank you for asking. So, the answer is this, the little genealogy of this question is that this Council of Ministers inherited the next situation in this area, so over 64,000 square meters of space were rented at a total monthly amount of 834 thousand KM, so at an annual amount of 10 million KM. Conscious of these facts and truly enormously high prices of leases that in some parts of the cities, Banja Luka and Sarajevo, came out up to 47 KM, we immediately concluded that all institutions were obliged to comply within 3 months with the size of their space according to the criteria adopted and standards, that is 8 m2 per employee, i.e. 15 m2 per department manager or institution. At this point, a large part of the agencies and institutes have coordinated the payment and rental of their premises in accordance with these standards, including the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, the Agency for State Service, the Agency for, or IDDEEA, the Institute for Intellectual Property, etc. We have again sent a letter of urgency to those agencies and institutions that have so far failed to comply with the size of their premises and the payment of rents in accordance with the standards and standards adopted by the Council of Ministers. And with regard to the newly purchased facilities and accommodation of the institutions on them, I can inform you of the following. The newly purchased facility in Tuzla includes the Institute for Missing Persons, the Anti-doping Control Agency, the Foreign Affairs Service, the Mine Removal Centre and the BiH Institute for Joint Affairs. In a newly purchased facility in East Sarajevo – the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. At the newly purchased facility in Banja Luka – agency for, i.e. FIPA, Institute of Intellectual Property, Bosnia and Herzegovina Plant Protection, Institution of the Ombudsman for Human Rights, Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. Also in Mostar – Food Safety Agency, Agency for Joint Affairs BiH, Medicines and Medical Agents Agency, Foreign Affairs Service, Competition Council, Institute for Missing Persons, Foreign Investments, State Regulatory Agency for Nuclear and Radio security, Mine Removal Centre, while the Information and Recognition Centre for Higher Education is under way. So, everyone, all the institutions that have been ordered to move into the newly purchased facilities have completed the job, except, I repeat, the Information and Recognition Centre for higher education documents, whose move is under way. At the same time, the Council of Ministers decided to go shopping or buying a facility in Sarajevo, which would significantly reduce the amount of funds we are paying for rent at the moment. I remind you, more than 16,000 square metres of space is still being rented in Sarajevo, and that's where the Council of Ministers is headed in two directions. So we will get an object that will be owned by the Council of Ministers, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be administrative, or office purposes for adequate accommodation of our institutions. 15 At the same time, we tasked our ministries and services to analyse the list of facilities owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina so that they could be used for the accommodation of our institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11497	Thank you, President. Does the representative want a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11498	Well, I'm happy with the answer, especially with this information that we need and that the public is familiar and what we all knew is that really enormous funds are being leased. I would welcome these Council of Ministers conclusions and would like to make one comment in this part of respecting these conclusions in terms of criteria and necessary squares in institutions. The chairman of the Council of Ministers said that the majority or most of the institutions respected the decision, should be dealt with by those who did not, but should also finally introduce a system of responsibility and respect the Council of Ministers' decisions. Indeed, here we have, and here we have the Prime Minister's own chairman, who brought that data, and we really have different and different data, and I think that every mark in this area is good for saving, and I'd like to hope for the Council of Ministers' efforts to finally...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11499	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11500	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11501	I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11502	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The negotiations in the area, meaning, negotiations between the European Commission and the negotiating team of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the alignment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on the so-called "Stabilisation and Association". trade is not progressing at the desired pace, negotiations make it difficult for the EU's last request for agricultural and food products that are not part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to be included in this document and to open concessions for these products within the limits of the three-year average of exports from Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is an extremely important thing for farmers and producers in our country. It seems to be so-called. Traditional trade has imposed as the most important condition for our application for EU membership to be considered at all as credible and to continue our European path. The question of the Council of Ministers Chairman is, Mr Zvizdić – Is this the European Commission's view of blackmail against our country? And question two – Why did the guidelines for our negotiating team adopted at the Council of Ministers not go to the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider and determine the final proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11503	The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11504	Thank you. Therefore, any country which has had regulated trade relations with the EU through the agreement and in our case of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as the Interim Trade Agreement on Stabilisation and Association Agreement, had to join the amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in order to implement its adaptation. During the enlargement process, this principle is truly respected by all other countries that had signed the SAA. That's what she did before us, let's say, Serbia now needs to do Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not joined this process since 2013, certainly goes to the benefit of our agricultural producers and our situation in agriculture within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but does not mean that this obligation has ceased to exist. This obligation indeed exists to approach negotiations with the fact that the interests of both sides will be taken into account. So there is no kind of blackmail from the European Commission or the EU towards Bosnia and Herzegovina because it really does not enter the EU into Bosnia and Herzegovina, but Bosnia and Herzegovina enters the EU and we must act in accordance with the principles, standards and rules that apply to all EU countries and those who want to join the EU. This is more a question of the quality of negotiations during the CEFTA and the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina within the CEFTA contract. If the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina were better negotiated then, and if we had a better status today, it would be no problem to approach the SAA's adjustment to Croatia's entry into the EU. And on the other hand, of course, we should bear in mind the fact that in the last three years, there has been a constant decline in the amount of budgets and incentives for agriculture at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the fact that, for me, the irrational failure of certain laws and opposition of entities to proposals coming from the European Commission and the Council of Ministers in relation to the single paying agency or the Food, Veterinary and Agriculture Act, of course, we lose at an annual level of 30 or 40 million euros of IPARD funds that would be directly injected to agricultural producers. So we need to focus on our budgets, our funds, our ability to withdraw funds, and then the SAA adaptation Treaty will not be such a big problem. And I want a second question, a brief answer, so according to the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly gives prior consent to ratification of all international agreements but at the request of the BiH Presidency. So, at this stage of the negotiations, i.e. at the stage when the basis of the negotiating position is adopted, it is not intended for the role of the Parliamentary Assembly but for the negotiating position, and on the basis of technical indicators and proposals alone, the BiH Presidency determines which such a proposal can completely change and create in a completely different way and then decide to also obtain a certificate for such a thing from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In this case and in this process, the Council of Ministers is in fact only a technical body that prepares a proposal for a possible negotiating position with adequate indicators, data and possibly some recommendations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11505	Thank you, President. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11506	I have no comment, thank the chairman. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11507	Thank you very much. I give my word to Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11508	Thank you, Madam Chairman. For a change, I will ask the Minister of Transport and Communication on a problem that is increasingly present in the modern world. It is almost daily increased use of unmanned drones electronically controlled, which are universally called drones, whose use is extremely wide, the leprosy of use is very wide from socially beneficial activities to the possibility of terrorist attacks. I ask you, Mr. Deputy – What have you done to regulate this area by law, by law in Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11509	Thank you very much. Answer, Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11510	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, respected MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. To the question of the honourable representative, I can say the following. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the use of drones, or drones as remote control systems, is increasingly common. The use is diverse and can be used in various areas, so in the next period we expect a mass of use than it is today. The problem of use is primarily treated from a security point of view because there is a great possibility of misusing these aircraft. It is necessary to regulate the issues in question by regulations in order to ensure that they are used in a safe manner so as not to interfere with other systems, especially aviation. In Banja Luka, on 10.03.2016, a workshop was held several days ago on the subject of BHDCA, where the possibilities of drones were demonstrated, as well as a review of European regulations and practices in the area. Of course, there is a danger to safety, as you have stated. In the next period, I expect the publication of the regulations, i.e. by BHDCA as a competent institution, which will establish a legal framework for the use of drones, drones and which will also deal with security issues in the area. And we at the Ministry accept the initiative to regulate this area's legal boundaries of the Aviation Act since 2009, because that law did not treat this area because there was no such drone at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11511	I thank Deputy Minister Dalipagić. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11512	Well, I'm not happy with the answer, because this issue is not regulated by the Air Traffic Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am not pleased with the fact that 18 dormant ministries,...the ministry, are acting on their work only after MPs launch the initiative. And I will for my own safety, and for the safety that this job will be done, launch a parliamentary initiative to amend and supplement the Air Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11513	I give my word to Agent Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11514	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the chairman Zvizdić and concerns increasingly frequent attempts to disrespect the final arbitration decision concerning the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, 16 years ago, the Bosnia and Herzegovina District was formally established on the basis of provisions and the Dayton Peace Agreement and later arbitration stemming from those provisions. However, it is obvious that there are forces that do not respect the final arbitration decision concerning the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I also remind this opportunity that in the final arbitration decision concerning the Brcko District, the district is under the exclusive sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the decision is final and binding. Even in one part of that final decision regarding the Brcko District, it is said that if one of the parties does not respect the final arbitration decision concerning the Brcko District, there may also be an additional solution in the form of penalties. And despite such explicit provisions, the president of Republika Srpska's entity, Mr. Milorad Dodik, publicly reiterated a few weeks ago that Brcko District is a count of Republika Srpska. It's both unacceptable and inadmissible. This was not said by the president of a cultural and artistic society, but by the president of one of the entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, we cite examples of the Public Service of one of the entity's televisions, precisely RTRS, each night in prime time, showing a map of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which Brcko is an integral part of Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11515	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11516	My question, since I should have given further reasons to the prime minister, so what has the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers done to prevent attempts to disobey the Dayton Peace Agreement and the final decision on the Brcko District?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11517	The answer, chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11518	Thank you. So, as you said yourself, the final arbitration decision for Brcko was made on 5 March 1999. The first institutions were formed a year after that. And mentioned in the Brcko District decision was established as a single unit of local self-government under the direct sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that the BiH Constitution as well as the applicable laws and decisions in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are directly applicable throughout the district, and the law and decisions of all the Distrika authorities must comply with the applicable laws and decisions of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 19 At this point, the Council of Ministers has no information that any authority has addressed us or established a breach of the final arbitration decision for the Brcko District. Meetings of the Council of Ministers shall be attended by a representative, each session, representative of the Brcko District, and, of course, in the event of any breach of the final arbitration decision or the initiation of any procedure by the Council of Ministers, shall act in accordance with its competences. We, right now, have a discussion on the issue of citizenship, i.e. on the issue of the issue of a ID card and when it is necessary to enter into the identity card data on entity citizenship, given that there are laws on citizenship and on Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the Federation, as well as the Brcko District Act on the choice and application of entity citizenship itself. In that sense, we really don't have that kind of information. And if a representative of the Brcko District, who sits on the Council of Ministers, initiates any procedure based on decisions relating to the arbitration of Brcko, the final decision, we will naturally act in accordance with our competences. And I fully agree with you that no one in Bosnia and Herzegovina can speak of the Brcko District as a count of any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina except Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is under direct jurisdiction both in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territorial and institutional composition.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11519	Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11520	So, it is not just parliamentary issues to attack the prime minister or some minister, but to take advantage of the opportunity and to publicly point things out. Since the prime minister said that there is no information in a particular section I am now publicly giving him information that this behavior in the entity is Republika Srpska's result of the adopted strategy in the Serbian Parliament, in which it writes, this is scandalous to say now – that Brcko District is part of Republika Srpska, and I will now quote this, "Brcko is for Serbia", quote, "a zone of great strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia", and are listed as zones of great strategic interest in Serbia's Posavina even the valley of the Una River. That's not how good neighbourly relations are built. I ask the Prime Minister to do what I say.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11521	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11522	Check with your cabinet, the media to check this out, and in your first meeting with the Serbian prime minister, you point out that this is inadmissible. To request a change of the disputed provisions in the Strategy, as this is a direct interference with the internal sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we have to tell everyone that it's both unacceptable and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11523	I give the word to MPs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11524	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Gentlemen of the Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Media Representatives. 20 My question is – When will the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a regular Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, accordingly, propose certain concrete legislative or other measures? In accordance with Article 8(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law prohibiting discrimination provides that the BiH Ministry of Human Rights will once a year report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the occurrences of discrimination and propose measures to eliminate them. I note that the Joint Committee on Human Rights has repeatedly asked the restoring ministry to submit the report. The latest report was held in Bijeljina, a meeting of the Commission, that was 31.12.2015, when it was requested to deliver the report. I note that this is my old parliamentary initiative from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, when it is respected, former Minister of Human Rights Mr Damir Ljubić, has publicly confirmed on my several consecutive issues, I have here an unauthorized text of his speech, saying that the problem in entity ministries that do not provide the Council of Ministers of the Analysis. I note that this question from January 2015, given that we came here in March 2016, I ask the Ministry of Human Rights to answer my question in writing, in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11525	Here, since the distinguished representative and in her asking questions she said she expects in writing, we today have no ministers for justifiable reasons. That means we move on to the next parliamentary issue. I give my word to Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11526	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, all others present, I welcome you. And here's to the prime minister, which he says a little bit more fitness, but I promise you I won't sweat you with the question, it's not hard. It's about amending the election law. As we all know, the process is under way, apart from technical issues, several essential issues are being imposed. One of these is, in any case, the problem of holding elections in Mostar, which goes slightly beyond the very technique of holding elections and becomes one of the first-class political issues. There is great concern for the part of the citizens, not only Mostar, for some of the proposals relating to the division of the city by war and ethnic lines. It is very common to think, which I share personally, that the issue of Mostar is a crucial issue for the state as a whole and a milestone that will determine whether this country is going towards integration or disintegration. I do not want to put you in an awkward position to ask you to comment and give your opinion on the proposal for a solution to your political party, which I consider to be bad, but I would like to ask you next – Did the Council of Ministers discuss amendments to the Election Law, and since this is a very important issue for the whole country, on certain aspects of this, especially here, I am putting the accent on Mostar City again? And second question – Do the ministers who participate in the work of the Interresor Working Group represent their personal views or the agreed position of the Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11527	Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11528	Thank you. So, about this question, I can say the following. At its 21st session in September 2015, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the BiH Ministry of Justice, adopted a Decision appointing a representative of the Council of Ministers to the Interresor Working Group to amend Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral legislation. We appointed three members of the Working Group who participated in the same participation alongside representatives of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly and representatives of the Central Election Commission, so it was in the Decision. The Council of Ministers' Working Group appointed prominent Minister Josip Grubeša as justice minister, Semiha Borovac, ljudski pravo i izbjeglica minister and Mr Mirko Šarović, foreign trade and economic relations minister za BiH. So, after the adoption of that Council of Ministers' Decision, it did not discuss the issue of amending the Election Law, because, as far as I know, the Interresor Working Group has not yet drawn up the final text of amendments and additions, in which, I believe and hope, a comprehensive solution will be offered for the city of Mostar, which, I agree with your opinion, we all consider one of the most important issues, not only for the city of Mostar, but for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I stress that, in accordance with this Decision, the draft law amending and supplementing the Election Law will in fact be the proposal of the Interresor Working Group established by the Parliamentary Assembly, which will not be the proposal of the Council of Ministers, so that ministers do not act according to decisions made by the Council of Ministers, but are only members of such a group. When and if the draft law is drawn up in accordance with the business procedures of the Council of Ministers and both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, and if it comes to the Council of Ministers, we will, of course, give our opinion on any legal solutions offered.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11529	Thank you. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11530	Very short. Okay, the answer I expected, technocratically, but I'll be free to suggest you get involved. It is important that we observe this issue only in the technological level of work of an inter-resor working group, not some, but our Inter-resor working group that will propose it to Parliament. As head of the Council of Ministers, I don't think anyone will forgive your passivity if this goes wrong. And I think it's better that you use your political power, get involved, and don't let this go in the wrong direction. I suppose, or I'd like to believe that your position and my attitude around the city of Mostar is very similar. And since I have a few more seconds just to suggest one more thing, and it concerns the Election Law and other laws. It often happens that agencies within the Council of Ministers on various occasions, on committees, consultations, are acting under some law. And when you ask them if it's your position or the Council's position, they kind of have a personal attitude. So I suggest you pay attention to that, because it was also a matter of election law that agencies gave their views on certain issues, which I know you didn't quite determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11531	I give my word to the representatives of Diana Zelenika. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11532	Thank you. I warmly welcome all present. My question concerns the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, to make a joke as well as a colleague, which is a contribution to health and physical activity. The question is: Why has the BiH Council of Ministers not yet delivered an opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act, with the reason that the Commission for Gender Equality to the College of the House of Representatives sent a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH on 5 January this year? The draft law has received a positive opinion from the legislative and legal sector and the constitutional law commission. It was discussed at the 24th session of the House of Representatives on 11 January when it concluded that the debate should be postponed until the Council of Ministers' opinion has been obtained. On February 5th, by the Dom College, an emergency was sent to the Council of Ministers to deliver Opinions on the Bill's Proposal. The Council of Ministers held 8 sessions in the period from 20 January to 10 March this year and none of them discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers' Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11533	The answer, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11534	So, the Council of Ministers is at its 09.02 session. 2016 considered the Proposal for an Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act, on the proposal of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and we have reached a conclusion that we have actually asked the Ministry of Justice to, in the light of the proposal for an opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers, prepare a united Opinion for the Council of Ministers. The main reason for this conclusion is the need to consult the Ministry of Justice when giving an opinion on the Council of Ministers' Law and, in accordance with its legal powers, to make a united position, bearing in mind, of course, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers. The justice ministry has finished its job, it realised the Council of Ministers' said conclusion and will be at the Council of Ministers' meeting most likely next Monday or next week. It will also be discussed, of course, as soon as we adopt such an opinion, the same will be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH through our General Secretariat. So, in the next, most likely in the next and later week after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11535	Thank you. Do we have a representative comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11536	I will thank you, but still make one remark on the time period that was needed for such a brief explanation. Thank you very much. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11537	I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11538	Thank you. The Chairman of the Council of Ministers. The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is an integral part of the BH legal order, and all authorities are obliged to apply it in their own actions, and entities, etc. BH is the national authorities which are primarily obliged to guarantee and protect the rights guaranteed by the Convention, while the European Court of Human Rights provides subspecial protection in cases where national authorities have failed to apply or misapply the Convention. Therefore, the main purpose of the Convention is to apply it before domestic authorities, including domestic judicial authorities. Bosnia and Herzegovina accepted the Interlaken Declaration and the Brighton Declaration, which directly required all States, parties to the Convention, to increase the awareness of national authorities, executive, judicial and legislative standards and to ensure their application throughout the country. Among other things, these declarations have been made by the Member States to - to encourage national courts and enable them to take account of the relevant principles of the Convention, taking into account the court's case-law in the conduct of the procedure... of formulating judgments, providing relevant information to public officials in obligations, on the basis of the Convention, etc., etc. I read all of this to you from the Croatian Government website, because some of us think that education is also a pressure on the judiciary or interference in their work. This is, therefore, an EU country. So the question – What concrete activities has the Council of Ministers and its bodies taken to implement the declarations from Interlaken and Brighton, in particular on education on obligations under the European Convention concerning the right to freedom, the right to privacy, the right to a fair trial, and taking into account increasingly obvious violations of these rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11539	Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11540	Thanks for asking. Of course, I think a more adequate answer could be given by Minister Borovac. That's how it was arranged, she's not here today, so here I am in the shortest lines, in agreement with her, saying something about the answer itself and this topic. And one and the other declaration, as you said, applies... The European Court of Human Rights. They are also closely related to the activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the activities of representatives or agents of the Member States of the Council of Europe before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Declarations relate... to the area of education on the importance of the European Convention on Human Rights, to the effectiveness in the execution of European Court of Human Rights rulings, to the transparency of the European Court of Justice's election, to co-operation with the vijeće of Evropsa's Committee of Ministers and in general to the achievement of the so-called European Court of Justice. unilateral and friendly settlements, including what you just read. One such report by Bosnia and Herzegovina prepared and delivered to the Court of Human Rights and to the Council's Committee of Ministers in April 2012, with the aim of Bosnia and Herzegovina's activities in meeting the basic objective of these declarations, which is to strengthen the legality of regular courts' work, in order to reduce in our case the number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights. 24 The 2012 Council of Ministers should have tasked the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, not the Ministry of Justice, because our laws do not specify a body that should continuously monitor the implementation of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, including these declarations, in order to improve the efficiency and transparency of the work of domestic courts and thus reduce the number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights. But, of course, there was no agreement between these two ministries, so that such a proposal is not supported, and at this moment activities are being carried out in this direction, to determine the competent ministry and then to approach the implementation of both declarations, in line with the dynamics and the basic objectives for which these declarations were adopted. Here, I end up with this, but together with Minister Borovac we will deliver you, if necessary, and a written answer to this question, with more details and more information.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11541	Thank you, President. Does the representative have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11542	Of course, thank you. What I caught from your response, and I asked for the Council of Ministers' reply, is that this is very weak in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this can be seen from practice. Mr. Chairman, go to the Government of Croatia website, and you will find a sea of information on the implementation of the Interlaken and Brighton declarations and on concrete activities at their implementation in that country, including in front of all authorities, legislative, executive and judicial. As a result, you will not hear in Croatia that police officers were exempting someone's medical records without a court order, you will not hear examples of a threat to freedom of speech, etc. If it were in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then perhaps our authorities would know a little more about the European Convention and Bosnia and Herzegovina would not be exposed to the constant negative judgments of the European Court of Justice. But to be honest, I'm not surprised that these declarations don't apply to us, as you've now confirmed, because after they got the announcement of my question, at 4:53 yesterday, they called me from your office to ask me what the declarations from Interlaken and Brighton were. That's how much it's been going on with us. At 4:53, I got a call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11543	I give my word to President Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11544	I thank the chairman. I want to welcome you all to the successful work of today's Parliament. My question is very simple, but I think it's hard to get results, but here's what we'll see. Since we received the budget for 2016 in time, and the way we received it is, therefore, by emergency procedure and without the possibility of giving amendments. I wonder if we have the data – how many predispositions have so far been made on budget items or economic codes or on terms, as anyone wants, in what amount and by what budget users? Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11545	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, i.e. Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11546	Honorable president, distinguished MPs, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Question, I'll try to answer this question as soon as possible. Predisposition, we're under it, or I'm under it meant restructuring. Only restructuring is defined by the provisions of the Finance Act of the institutions of Article 16. The budget law, Article 19, and the provisions of the procedure on the restructuring or restructuring of expenditure of budgetary users for 2016, as of 27.01.2016. Idati answer a specific question. Finally on 1603, so from yesterday, we received two restructure requests. The first request was referred to the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, adopted on 26.02, which required restructuring in economic category 821300, additional means of purchasing a 30 000 motor vehicle, contrary to the rules on the conditions of purchase and use of official vehicles, and therefore the answer was negative. The second request was made by the Ministry of Security, received on 10.03, concerning the request for restructure of the Ministry, the reduction of position 621500, the procurement of permanent funds in the form of rights and the increase of the position 821300, the purchase of equipment, by 17,000 marks, to enable the budgetary user to implement a project to build a single information system, security checks, which will be mostly co-financed by the European Commission. This is just our participation. So a concrete answer, two requests, one positive one negative solution. I note that the data on the number of budget users performing and seeking to restructure the economic category, which are being restructured and shown in periodic and annual reports on the implementation of the budget, are being submitted, in accordance with the Financial Reporting Regulation, the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. After the adoption of all these reports are available on the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury website. And due to the compression of time, we have both a table view and everything else prepared and we will deliver it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11547	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11548	Of course. I thank the minister. I think the answer is satisfactory, but I'd like it to be in writing. What I was going to say to these people, so we adopted Budget by emergency procedure, and after two months we see that some items in positions are also required by budget positions, whether, under the code of basic funds or some other means, car purchase is required. So one thing that's very interesting here. When we adopt the Budget, we only see what we realized at the end of the year. During the implementation of the budget itself, we are not in a position to see what is being done, where budget items are being restructured. According to us, let's say, this is exactly what we've been talking about, we've had amendments, where we're going to invest a lot in education, especially the prosecution, 26 courts, sports, etc., etc. So we see that emergency procedures in these things are what the basic document is in one state, such as the budget, that they are not a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11549	The word is Mrs. Borjana Krišto, the chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11550	Thank you very much. My question by reason was addressed to the Minister of Justice and the Council of Ministers. For the past few years, Bosnia and Herzegovina has paid millions of KMs illegally held in custody, after which they have been legally released, and has applied for damages due to illegal detention. The great damage was done to these and to those who suffered major damage to honor and reputation, who were violated by a fundamental human pavilion. Bosnia and Herzegovina has also suffered huge financial damages on the basis of court costs. In some cases, these lawsuits amounted to up to 100,000 KM, and in a large number of cases these costs of court charges were multiplely higher than the amounts claimed in the indictments to be damaged by the State. This also raises a question of the priorities of the prosecution, which spends its valuable and expensive time on items whose nature could be more than an interest in external and internal audit, and does not deal with much more important things from its own work. Such procedures not only affect the damaged, members of their families, but also Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation and further, I would say, and justifiablely create mistrust in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial system, i.e. in the overall functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina's rule of law as a whole. As an epilogue of this whole story, we have a situation where taxpayers and unjustly accused persons suffer great consequences, while actors, on the other hand, are not responsible for this situation for their possible failures, unconscious action or abuse of a position. My question, therefore, is – What will the BiH Ministry of Justice, or the Council of Ministers, as a legislator of the Law, do to amend the legislation in the area of criminal law, in a clear way to prescribe the procedures and responsibilities of the holder of judicial duties in the proceedings from the application of baseless indictments, to decisions that pay for multimillion-dollar damages, because of illegal detention and judicial costs, which are particularly offensive to honor and reputation, and fundamental human rights of damaged persons, their families and the reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11551	Thank you. The answer will be given by the minister of justice at the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11552	Thank you very much for asking. So, a fair procedure, in the sense that it is prescribed in BiH's criminal legislation, makes certain rights that belong to every person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted. The law is defined in the sense that the procedural rules need 27 to ensure that no innocent is convicted and that the perpetrator of the crime is imposed a canno-legal sanction under the conditions laid down by the KZ BiH and other laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina which prescribe criminal offences and in the legal procedure. The first request refers, therefore, to the protection of innocent persons against unwarranted convictions, and the second to the effectiveness of criminal prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences in the legal frameworks. Also, organisational laws on court and prosecution prescribe that judges and prosecutors in their work are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that, both procedural and material laws, they are partly in line with good European standards and international regulations, but certain provisions can be corrected, completed, clarified, explained, by the Ministry and done, and so far the amendments and additions of these laws have been adopted. By giving a concrete answer to the question raised, I also emphasise the criminal offences against the BiH KZ holder, which is a violation of the law by the judge, Article 238 and unwitting work in the service, Article 224. Furthermore, the Law on VSTV prescribed disciplinary violations, the way in which discipline proceedings are conducted, disciplinary penalties, but I believe that this regulation must certainly be radically improved, which the Ministry does through structural dialogue. The reform strategy of the justice sector 2016-2020, the Action Plan for the implementation of the Strategy, as well as the Plan of this Ministry for the current year, provides for important activities to prepare the draft law on the VSTV, which will improve the staffing of courts and prosecutors, objective choice and promotion, but in particular establish responsibility for the reckless or unconscious work of all holders of judicial functions, and we appreciate that we have the support of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in this direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11553	I will only thank the minister like this and refrain from commenting, and in this matter of course I will also try to act as a representative. Thank you very much. I give my word to my representative, Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11554	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. My question was addressed to the foreign trade and economic relations minister of BiH. Before I ask the question, I will give a brief explanation why I asked this question and the urgency of the need for an answer, or for urgent action. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been a member of the World Animal Health Organisation since 2002. For this membership, Bosnia and Herzegovina allocates 20,000 euros annually. In addition to animal health, the World Organisation for Animal Health also deals with animal welfare, and for the sake of need, 2014 established the Regional Centre for Animal Well-being. This Regional Centre, together with the World Organisation for Animal Health and Well-being, is directing its action in this area and on the Balkan countries, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. Making a platform and whose goal was to raise awareness of the health and welfare of animals is absolutely necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we know that we have, among other things, a problem with stray dogs. The public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to me personally, is not clear why the Director of the Veterinary Office refused to participate in a campaign in which the Regional Centre for the Protection and Well-being of Animals in cooperation with the World Organisation for Animal Health prepared promo and educational materials translated in all languages, as well as in local languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and would be happy to give these materials to the use of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, the BiH Veterinary Office, which would be in charge of further distribution of educational and promotional material in this area. 28 My question – Did you, the distinguished ministers, know that the director of the BiH Veterinary Office refused to participate in the World Organisation for Animal Health campaign and that because of this refusal, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the only country in the Balkans that will not start with this campaign and that, unfortunately, BiH has sent another bad signal to the EU, and we have shown to the citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we do not have a problem with stray dogs? With what right has the director of the BiH Veterinary Office made such a decision on behalf of all of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11555	Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11556	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, honourable MPs, honourable MPs. I am not really familiar with the facts that you cited in your parliamentary question concerning the World Organisation for Animal Health campaign and refusal to participate in the same by the Veterinary Office, because your question was, in a way, direct. I would like to point out that immediately after receiving your parliamentary question, I have requested and received a reply from the BiH Veterinary Office which, due to the length of its contents, I will deliver to you only a few minutes, and by written means. In short, to say that the BiH Veterinary Office in its response is explicit that they have never refused to participate in the World Organisation for Animal Health campaign, on the contrary, have made their full contribution. In the campaign's organization, in this response, I am talking about this answer, that the possible misunderstanding was in the details relating to the logo of the Regional Centre for Animal Well-being and its distribution by the Office, which, according to the office's views, must contain the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this promo material did not have it, and there were also speeches and misunderstandings about the status of BiH Veterinary Office officials in this Regional Centre. Dear Members, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations remains committed to co-operation, full co-operation with the World Organisation for Animal Health and supports all animal health and welfare activities and the full implementation of our domestic law in this regard. I would like to point out to you in particular that I remain open to full co-operation on this issue that you have spoken about, means with you, as I am prepared, of course, to organise a meeting with both you and the Veterinary kancelarija in order to even discuss the implementation of the law and some issues that have remained open, and in particular the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11557	I thank the minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11558	I thank the Minister for the correct answer and for the offer of cooperation or for the meeting. I'll definitely respond to the meeting, because you know that I've already been asking questions about the Office of Veterinary, that I've been unsatisfactory, and I haven't been satisfied. I tried, of course, 29, and you were absent and I, to arrange a meeting to discuss this and other topics, but I am familiar with the EU's fact that the deadline for the delivery of this response to participate in a campaign like this was yesterday, and it expired, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will not participate in this campaign. The question arises as to how Bosnia and Herzegovina refuses to accept the funds offered and has not provided, i.e. the Veterinary Office or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, some sources of other revenue from other sources for the campaign, because we have a problem with raising awareness on this issue, as well as on other issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you and ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11559	I give my word to Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11560	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome you and your associates, as well as everyone else present in the hall. I will address the question of the Minister of Justice, and regarding the well-known circumstances that occurred in the absence of medical documentation for hospitalized Mr. Radončić. However, before I ask the question, I would refer to certain questions, i.e. the statements of certain relevant persons who gave their following assessments on this issue. So we have an evaluation of the president of the Medical Chamber by which police cannot monitor the work of doctors, the documentation can only be taken with the court's confirmation, then a statement by the director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, because it is obvious here, and clearly it is about the protection of personal data, he said that medical documentation belongs to a special category of personal data. This is without question personal data and requires special authorisation and protection so that these data are not misused. Of course, I would add to this a statement by the Court of Justice's judge, who also said that he did not know who he was and in what way he pointed out the request to exclude the file. And here today we also got confirmation, you can read in the means of information, the commission, which was formed to check Mr. Radončić's documentation and health status, confirmed the results that SIPA has excluded. Of course, I would now ask the question of the Minister of Justice – Does he have any comment on this because it is obvious here that it is a violation of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, what is his comment, what is his position, does he himself, or the Ministry, intend to do on this matter? And especially this, I would point out that I am pleased, if I had heard the question asked by the President-in-Office, so in some way this is directly related to these problems that we have had the opportunity to hear in the opening presentation of Mrs. Chairman but, of course, in the reply of Mr. Minister. So here, in my opinion, this is one thing that is extremely serious, but since the flow of time, it seems to us all to be normal and our reactions are completely weak and we have simply become insensitive to human rights violations and to the violation of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, if he can, to give me an answer to this question. So, what does he think he's gonna do about this and is this about breaking the Personal Data Protection Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11561	Answer, BiH Justice Minister, Mr. Grubeša. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11562	Thank you very much for asking. So, as you pointed out yourself, one part of the answer you received in the previous answer, and this other part, the issue of personal data protection is in the jurisdiction of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so I'll be able to deliver more details about the answer in writing, after we get the data from the Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11563	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11564	Well, I don't know what to comment on here, you know. In my assessment, I have expressed my view regarding this problem and this question. I also directly linked myself to what we had opportunities to do in the previous presentation of Mr. Minister to hear, but in any case I want to get written answers to this, which I hope, and I am actually convinced, will give absolute confirmation of everything that I have expressed doubt about in my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11565	Thank you very much. At this point we have exhausted the question of oral and response, comments. And now we're moving on to the session agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-93/16, of 17.02.2016. (first reading), in accordance with the notices of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 22. Report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement – applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-37-433/16, from 05.02.2016, in accordance with the report's request. Point 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Cross-border Control between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-05-2-577/16, as of 17.02.2016, in accordance with the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-637/16, of 22.02.2016. Point 23. Special Report on (non)respect for human rights and rights in the field of work in the company "Boksit“ Milići, with recommendations – applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, Act No: 03/6-37-471/16, of 09.02.2016. 31 I point 31. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both PSBiH homes, issue: 01,02-50-14-838/16, since 16.03.2016. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11566	The Honorable Chairman. I propose that point 32 relating to the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia be removed from the agenda today. I therefore call on the BiH Council of Ministers to take advantage of its opportunities and withdraw this point today from the agenda. The shortest reason why I'm looking for it is next. First, I suggest we not rush to this Protocol, wait, in seven days, for the verdict of Radovan Karadžić, on March 24th, 31st, for the verdict of Vojislav Šešelj, and soon we expect Ratko Mladić's verdict. Secondly, in ten members of this Protocol, so I am only now talking about facts, we are talking about the very sensitive, most sensitive things this Parliament can discuss, the exhumation process, the missing persons, the identification of remains, etc. The rights and obligations of the parties that signed the Protocol, so the BiH states and the Serbian states, cannot be leveled, as it was done with this protokao. I cannot, for a number of reasons, and, among other things, because of the International Court of Justice's verdict in The Hague, as the UN's highest legal authority. The Court made it clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina was a victim, as it clearly found that Serbia is the only country in Europe that has violated the Convention on Genocide. Not to go any further, the very text of the Protocol mentions the formulation of conflicts in the space of SFRY. This does not even correspond to the Dayton Peace Agreement, because there is a clear formulation – a tragic conflict in the region, Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which signed it, Serbia or at the time the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia. So I suggest that the Council of Ministers withdraw this item of the agenda, not to go with a number of other arguments why this should be taken off the agenda today and wait for some of the things to come.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11567	Thank you very much. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11568	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 8 and 71. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH I initiate inclusion in the agenda of the session of the House of Representatives of the New Points, which would read: – The adoption of the conclusion regarding the payment of the outstanding roles of the foreign currency savings of the Ljubljanska banka – the Sarajevo branch. I also received a reply from the esteemed Minister of Finance and the Treasury, and the answer contains an overview of the activities that 32 were taken to remove obstacles to the start of the account of old foreign savings, and we learn from the media that half the information that the activities in this matter have not been started, and Slovenia informs that it has informed the Council of Europe that it has difficulties with the verification of data from the owner of the old foreign currency savings. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, 130,000 savings are waiting for their money. Unfortunately, some of them died, some of them may not even experience it, because I have the right, with this answer that I received and from the media that got the information, that for a reason I doubt the state is doing enough and is not making enough effort to solve this problem. The conclusion would be, since this is the only option to include this item of the agenda to be asked by the Council of Ministers that every 2 months this distinguished House is familiar with the activities it has taken and, that is, those obstacles that stand in this way, in order to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11569	Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11570	I'm getting harder to get up here, I don't know where we're supposed to get up, but these chairs don't work. I welcome you, Madam Chairman and College, colleagues and colleagues, all present in the hall. So, using the business opportunities I suggest you get out of the agenda as you propose to take it off point 3. In fact, yesterday at the College, the item was included in the Extended College by voting 5, 4, 1, so 5 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. And that's what I'm explaining to the next one. So, first of all, I think that the last time we did this amendment and now similar issues, we were also working on an emergency procedure, so that the institutions of Parliament, the legislative sector, the Office of Law in the Council of Ministers, etc., because of this urgency, was not, I suppose, on occasion of considering the proposed solutions. I think they're outside, so outside, so to speak, the legal principles that we serve here. And I support that next. In fact, it is proposed that this Law be referred to in Article 42, which was then done, and in fact that article 42 refers to the transitional and final provisions of the Law adopted in 2005 and served only as, as I say, bypass at the time when it was passed, so that there would be no void. Afterwards, much has happened, and all that has happened is the Management Board. In fact, it was not necessary to amend Article 42 and nothing would happen because in Article 18, which actually regulates this area, it is clearly said that the way in which the tv charges are charged in paragraph (1) determines... The system committee and in paragraph (3), the collection of tv charges may be carried out by public broadcasters through their own services, or shall entrust that job on a contractual basis to other legal persons, public undertakings, agencies, etc. So nothing will happen if we don't get into one, one, so to speak, the delusion of Parliament, which does it the second time, and the system board is absolutely guilty of all of this. In addition, a solution is offered contrary to the Consumer Protection Act, Article 36, which states in paragraph (2) – an energy supply account referred to in Article 35 of this Act, telecommunications, municipal and other services, and in brackets says RTV etc., can be provided separately to the consumer, must be provided specifically for each service. So, just all of this 33 times, but it's going to be a chance when there's a point of discussion about the situation in BHRT and the RTTV system to say... other things. Because of all these facts, I suggest that the point be removed from its order because nothing will happen, and that we finally discuss it in the right way, as well as deserves the state of affairs in this area, by adopting a new law or amending the law in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11571	Thank you very much. Predrag Kožul, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11572	Well, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Budget, as chairman of the Committee, I was obliged by the other members of the Committee to refer today, within this item of the agenda, to the removals from the agenda of the item that you know was previously scheduled for the agenda, it is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. She was supposed to, we got the materials. The College appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget as the committee responsible. At yesterday's session, we planned to discuss these amendments and additions to the law,... we received the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission which, in the opinion of the members of our Committee, prevented the debate at the Committee on Finance and Budget on that item of the agenda. In its opinion, the Constitutional Commission did not refer to the constitutional, conformity of this Law with the Constitution and the legal system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but, in our opinion, entered into the competence of the Commission, the competent commission, in this case the Finance and Budget Committee, and in its opinion, not only on the principles of the Law, and something broader. As president of the Commission, I personally felt that, if we could put this item on the agenda and discuss the principles of the law itself in the first reading, but colleagues from the Commission who are more experienced, both in this Parliament and in the work of the Commission, have warned me that this makes no sense, and that, on the basis of this opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which was not evident about the compliance of the Law with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have no way or need to discuss this Law. Members of the Committee held that, I am obliged to say that this Constitutional Commission, in a way, violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 44, 108 and 109. The Rules of Procedure, and it seems to me in some way one collegiate relationship with other Members of Parliament and with other committees, entering a precedent, therefore, not having a narrow opinion on the conformity of this Law with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but entering into the measure of legal solutions in a way... I am free to say, given that this referencing on this Law is also about certain savings or planning savings, in order to introduce this precedent into the system of work in Parliament and this would result in certain savings. If I can be slightly ironic, this precedent, if I go into the rule, it would mean that other committees in Parliament could be abolished. With a smart one.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11573	Time. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11574	The work of the Constitutional Commission could process both the principles and the principles of the law. I don't think that's good, and I owe it to the commission to say it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11575	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11576	... asked to apply Article 71 and Rule 70 (4) of the Rules of Procedure to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Kožul. So I didn't even understand this as a requirement to supplement the virgin order, which is the only thing that's allowed at this stage right now. And as for this, since this is about adopting my conclusion on the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations has reached an identical conclusion. So, we're talking about two constitutional commissions and a constitutional legal commission, I'll remind you, not only determine the constitutionality of the bill's proposal but also its compliance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system. And if the Proposer delivers to you a bill saying Article 48 is amended and said, and Article 48 is deleted less than a month ago, so there is no more, Article 48 is "white bread". The "white bread" was abolished a month ago, and the proposer delivers a bill that says Article 48 is amended and reads, and that member does not exist then it is clear that there is no compliance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system. And for this reason, the Constitutional Commission has acted absolutely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure both at home and at home. And I expect the Honorable Minister Bevanda will finally realize that "white bread" rang the end, that he will no longer offer it to us, not even half of it, and especially the whole, and then join at last these amendments and additions to the Law of which some are good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11577	I'm just saying that here it can't be determined that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's about a bill that was in the draft agenda. So the comment was about the Law on the Agenda. Let's move on, Aleksandra Pandurević, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11578	I thank the chairman. Well, let's get some things straight. In fact, there was an amendment to the Law on Salaries and Receipts. The Council of Ministers is before that amendment and supplementation long ago, it seems to me as early as December we received this Law. Meanwhile, there was this new amendment and the addition that was not even mentioned that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds and all the official messengers in which they were taking place, and then we had a simple discrepancy with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that was my motive, and that conclusion was accepted that, as with all the laws that we have handled that are not in line with the Single Rules, it was only to return the Council of Ministers to comply with the Unique Rules of Law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was part of the conclusion that I supported. This other part of I can agree with my colleague, Kožul, that the principles of the law have been entered, which was certainly not, but I did not vote for it. 35 It is interesting that some of the mouths are “white bread, ” and it seems to me that the subject is being shifted to the wrong things all the time. I'm sorry, here we all had stories about retirement severances, people who took the least of the severances were named here. Those who took much bigger and no one mentioned these severances in the Law, no one mentions and we don't fight, we fight people who live from that and after the mandate, but we don't talk, let's pass a law on the origin of property in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not a problem, dear colleague Arnaut, "white bread", the problem is to show how Mr. Džaferović acquired his property, as Mladen Bosić, like Aleksandra Pandurević, as our colleagues in the House of Peoples acquired their property. Now it's a struggle for the people and it's a fight against crime and corruption and budget savings.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11579	Mrs. Borjana Krišto, Chairman of the House, is correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11580	I would also like to report on these opinions, i.e. the debate on the agenda on the mentioned laws, as regards, for example, the Law on Payments in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also, here is the Law on the Public TV System, all in the context of compliance with the business provisions. No matter what anyone says, our Rules of Procedure is very clear. The Constitutional Commission shall give an opinion on the constitutional justification of the law and compliance with the legal system. In this case, the Constitutional Commission cannot, or any commission, return the proposals of the Council of Ministers' laws for any reason, be they political, be they..., etc. It is, therefore, an opinion to this House and to this House whether to adopt or not to adopt those opinions. And speaking of the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Public TV System, if we stick to the views and the legislative sector in respect of that, then we should be unique yesterday when it comes to this Law and wait for the opinion, exactly what the Rules of Procedure is asking us to do, and then discuss the question and the Law on the Public TV System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11581	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11582	Yeah. Mr. Arnaut, therefore, I would just say, although I am not Mr. Bevanda's lawyer, that Mr. Bevanda is not in favour of any solution on "white bread", as far as I know, but for a systematic solution to these issues when it comes to legislative regulation. And it seems to me that perhaps you and other moral verticals in this House would be more challenging to have it left and not to apply without having the right to do so. So you never said in public that it's not automatic law, but you have to apply for it to get it. Therefore, it might be a greater challenge for those who have moralized it to remain in any form that they do not then apply, to show how morally they are, or perhaps to take that money up and up and into the first folk kitchen that will simply come to those who should, how it was claimed there, and this way will remain in the budget anywhere or, I don't know, and I don't know whether it will stay in the budget, and whether it will be the savings that were ever discussed in all this process that... So, here's just that much. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11583	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11584	Here, I'm going to correct Mr. Arnaut's wrong quote, even if it's a colleague of Pandurević, I'd say, and say what I was going to say. In fact, you did not look at Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system in the opinion, but you made it very clear back to the Council of Ministers to comply with a law that I, with my best wishes, did not find in any official newspaper. So, you asked for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted, so to speak, the other day. I did not find the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to which you referred. There is, however, a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is absolutely different, and that was one reason why we are acting in this way on the Committee on Finance and Budget very reluctantly, because the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has provided us with the Council of Ministers, has 27 articles. Some of these articles, to say Colloquitically the first articles of this Law or the first 10-12 articles, seem to me to be a very important and narrow throat in the implementation of the Law on Salaries and Refunds. And that's why, in some ways, it was very important to regulate it, and what you wanted to do with your opinion could have been, in the second stage of reading this law, a very simple amendment and, in some ways, that we in Parliament should point out, populistally.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11585	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11586	Thank you. It is not the Law on Amendments to the Law on Salaries and Receipts but the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Salaries and Refunds, because there was only one amendment, the "white bread" was abolished. And here, since you haven't been able to find it, here I am offering you the "Official Messenger" here... Anyway, here's Official Messenger number 16/16. Here you go. As for Mrs Pandurević, you can see this, when the House of People finally adopted the abolition of "white bread", after a year of delay, Honorary counterpart Tadić came out for a pay phone and said this was only a small step but that the issue should be resolved systematically and the Law on the Study of Origin of Property, etc. And then I went out after him and said the SBB would support it right away. We may, however, be able to deliver ourselves to the procedure, but it is indeed a comprehensive law, and we hope that the Council of Ministers will deliver such a thing in the procedure. But in any case, and if the Alliance for Change delivers it to the procedure, you certainly have our votes on that matter. And what I can also promise you, when we vote for it and when we adopt it, we won't come 15 days later and try to change it like the Alliance for Change, it was clear after your presentation yesterday on the Constitutional Legal Commission, that the Change Alliance supports that the "white bread" return as an institute for 6 months. You were absolutely clear on that. And I promise you, I promise you, if the initiative that Mr Tadić has proposed, and which you have proposed now, if he comes to Parliament we will definitely support it and we will never later vote to change it, as you have changed your view on the issue of "white bread" less than a month later. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11587	Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11588	Thank you, Chairman. Oh, here's as a member of the Finance Commission and the budget a few words. So the Constitutional Commission was supposed to give...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11589	I ask the honourable representative to refer to the correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11590	Yeah, well, he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11591	This isn't a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11592	I'm not talking about the debate. I'm just trying to get two introductory sentences to correct the wrong quote. In what way, here's how you got me a little confused, but I'll manage. So, this Parliament, the replica, is to Mr Arnaut, this Parliament has given its position when it comes to "white bread", we voted. Is there any doubt that these 42 MPs and MPs will do otherwise when it comes to this Law? The law we received from the Council of Ministers does not only treat this matter, it also treats other very important things. After all, on July 22nd last year, we tasked the Council of Ministers to deliver to us a parliamentary procedure a system law that would resolve certain matters, to be in charge of 90 days, so we did not, so we kept warning them. Now they've sent us something. It's very important here, it's put here, and the reason for law-making is harmonisation. We currently have one discrimination, and this discrimination is that employees of the State Border Service, SIPA, have a salary supplement and that the newly formed Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities, i.e. employees within that Directorate, do not have that supplement. It is very important that, with respect or value of the work of these people through the legal procedure, we adequately reward them. And I don't think there was any problem...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11593	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11594	that this legislative solution enters the parliamentary procedure, and that this House, which has already rejected "white bread", I stress, rejected "white bread" and provided the conditions for the House of People to discuss this topic, eliminates what is excess in this Law through the amendment phase and systematically resolve certain things, among other things, the addition of salaries to officials who do not have these receipts at this time. Now, in that way, I mean morally, human, you should think, not politically or, in the way that was thought, and now we have a situation where we're going to get that law back in some period of time, but it's going to be at the expense of people who should have solved their status. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11595	Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11596	I thank the chairman. Well, my colleague Tadić was absolutely right about everything he said. It is true, we will propose a law on the examination of the origin of property of officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For me, let's say, he's very interested in where the tree is collected, where some have acquired millions and hundreds of millions of marks. And I fear when we pass this law that many will then need "white bread" when the property that has been illegally acquired is taken away. But also to teach anyone the morale lesson we need, let's first, here we have parliamentary questions about fees, that first members of ours, about retirement benefits, so some members of our families who have taken severance payments return that money to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then he'll have the right to teach a moral lesson to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11597	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11598	There's a lot of Šepić. If we're going about the Alliance for Change, our position is to say from one family or family we can't have many officials in institutions. Then we can talk about morality. If we say, here we will rule out nepotism... then we can, and then I will support you in everything. But we have to have the same arches in everything, absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11599	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We have, I apologize, Mirsad Đonlagić, not respecting the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11601	Well, it's obvious that the debate has begun and we've actually gotten away from what should be the point of this debate and the essence of this discussion. Here, if we are also speaking to this Law, is it forbidden to re-send the corrected text of this Law in a new procedure as soon as possible? That's not the problem. We're talking about... something that's been done, and it's done the way it's done, and now I don't think there's any point in us discussing it. So I would ask my colleagues to refrain from this debate, that debate has started and a bit of a populist one, however you like, we can qualify it. I don't think there's any point in discussing it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11602	Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. 39 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And probably, I apologize to Nikola Lovrinović, Momčilo Novaković is, so it's because of the mistake and not respecting the agenda. Here you go, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11604	Thank you. Well, I am, though, part of my discussion or the response to the correction was given by my colleague Pandurević. Indeed, the views of fellow Arnaut in this matter, especially those who prejudge the relationship of anyone here in Parliament, have not yet, until the vote is clear. But it seems to me that there is no more important step after going down to the moon than Mr. Arnaut's bill that we... I think what Armstrong did was too little and that he could really take a much bigger step for humanity that he did something in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament at that time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11605	Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11606	I refer to Mr. Sokolović's words. So he incorrectly said that this Parliament supported the rejection of "white bread". This Parliament has supported the party's pre-election promise to a better future for its voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11607	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11608	Well, I really appreciate my colleague Arnaut, so I won't... about ethics or adding papers to him, actually adding to him the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the other day, I know, I found this law, and I'm conveniently looking for laws, but in the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, you didn't refer to the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina but rather to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Salaries and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a minor procedural mistake, I know what you mean, but Parliament and the laws are procedures, and in that part we need to be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11609	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11610	My colleague Kožul is absolutely right. There's been a technical error, and I agree with you, uh, that's exactly why. I've seen a technical error... 40 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11611	The other one, the other one. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11612	and I have pointed to the Secretary of the Constitutional Commission for this technical error and he has submitted to the Protocol the correction of that technical error. So we also respected that technical part. But you're absolutely right, there was a technical error that was then corrected, so now everything's fine. As for, uh, inappropriate comments from Mr. Novaković, we are all used to them, especially you who are here already third, fourth term together with him. And in those three, four terms, I don't know exactly, but I know it's a lot, Mr. Novaković is the author of one law, then he rewritten it, uh, and none of it was adopted. And here, in a year's time here, I'm the author of two laws that were passed. So if we're really going to talk about how much someone has achieved in the steps of the moon, uh, I don't know how long it will take you to propose a law that will be passed, which will get the support of 90% of your colleagues. I think if you're going to do it like that, then you intend to stay here for another three, four terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11613	Correction of the wrong allegation, Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11614	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. It is obvious that we have little one session a month in view of the scope of this debate. We don't need two sessions, obviously we're going to have to do something about the work plan, and we're going to step up this pace, because today's debate is already going in, it's going well in the third hour, we haven't come to a situation to determine the agenda of the session. I have come to the floor to say that this situation concerning the Constitutional Commission procedure can also be interpreted by the Rules of Procedure as interpreted by the Constitutional Commission and the way colleagues here in Parliament claim it, and it is up to us at the College, we discussed it yesterday, to determine what future practice will be. If we say that the commissions can't return the bill to the Council of Ministers then it should apply to all committees in all situations and not be the situation that was before, and let the College do so. We take care of it, and we will be sure to resolve it. This Law certainly wouldn't be on the agenda today, because if it hadn't been for such a conclusion, I am convinced that the Constitutional Commission would have followed the view of the non-compliance with the legal system, given what Mr Arnaut was talking about. So, please, the law will come here in procedure, I hope we will reject it if it contains this disputed provision, because I think that "white bread" is something that, I agree with Mr. Salko, is something that is finished when this Parliament is concerned. Thank you so much. 41 As far as I can see, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, is correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11615	Here, I will try very briefly, in a way, to refer to what the respected deputy, counterpart Džaferović, said. We were actually discussing this, and I wouldn't want it to be a misunderstanding in front of this House. I want to fully behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as much as my options allow, both when it comes to the presidency and when it comes to the work of our committees. I will once again say that at the College, we will discuss everything that is the jurisdiction of our College, but what is the responsibility of the commission, I don't think we should, that we should act in committees according to what is defined by the Rules of Procedure, means that we define our position and opinion with what the commission is giving. And to take some views whether certain views, let's say, will be specifically the Constitutional Commission which brings back the chairman, or the Council of Ministers, of a proposed law in terms of some kind of revision of some articles, I will personally never support such opinions, either as a representative or as a member of the College. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11616	Thank you. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11617	Well, I'd like to say something about what Mr. Džaferović last said. It is important that this situation, which you see as we deal with, is the consequence of the situation in which we are increasingly involved. The constitutional commission has to knock like clockwork. And any mistakes by the Constitutional Commission they reflect on everything. And now I'm asking, and when it comes to the College, maybe the College could think a little bit about it, so the old law came in on 05.01., and the College passed the draft law to the Constitutional Commission, set up a competent Commission for Finance and Budget, and returned the law to the proposing to correct it in part as suggested by the Legislative and Legal Sector. And now I wonder, if the law is returned to the Proposer, why was it delivered to these commissions? Why? The law isn't right. Let the motionary bring it back. So what happens now? The promoter corrects the law and sends it back again, meaning the second version comes in 17.02 and to that second version the Constitutional Commission says – we return it for repairs. So wait, guys, what's going on? So it's twice, and it's coming back again. So much before it was suggested that what was suggested by the Constitutional Legal Commission which apparently succumbed, Mr Arnaut succeeded here, although the representative commission is the Constitutional Commission, but here is obvious that all were not awake enough so what happens to us happens. So it wasn't done what was done. And who was watching the law in the Constitutional Commission, so he came back and realized what he was saying? This could have been determined, meaning the Finance and Budget Commission, or we would have changed one by amendment. But someone wants to talk about him, and what they want to talk about him has to find a new initiative not to talk about the same thing all the time and the same story about the same faces. So don't use it. This is a terrible mistake. If the legislative and legal sector, which does a great job, says the law is not in line with the Single Rules, do not deliver the commissions until the law is in conformity.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11618	Time. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11619	So there are these mistakes that we could all make together, to think about before it happens again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11620	Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11621	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A warm greeting to all present. As well as my colleague Bećirović, I would like to propose that the 32nd agenda be removed from today's session, i.e. I call on the Council of Ministers to withdraw the proposed Ratification Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11622	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11623	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues. I suggest we take the number 24 off the agenda. A letter from the BiH Institutions Audit Office. In fact, I don't understand the motive for putting this point on the agenda. Since the point, i.e. the material did not go through the commission phase, it is not mandatory, so I have no commission report here, now my colleague Majkić tells me that he has passed the commission phase, I do not have any commission reports. If it has passed then it is a mandatory item of the agenda, but then we have indeed been led astray by the MPs, because we have not been given that opinion. And if not, then it is not a mandatory point and should be removed, because I don't know what the motive of putting this on the agenda is, especially if the argument is very gross, where it is said about the attempts of the Council of Ministers to influence, means, in some way, the independence of audit institutions, and in particular here – and certain recent acts of the Council of Ministers by which sublegal acts are derrogated by the Law on Audit. I think it should be much clearer to write what is meant by these certain acts, what is the goal here and what is the conclusion, after all, that suggests who made the memo. The name of the point - the letter on its part also goes in favor of what I propose and therefore I ask that this point be removed from the agenda, and that the College undertakes the Commission to prepare the... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let me finish... Well, I don't see it's over, I don't see it's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11625	Please, please don't have a dialogue. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11626	And to make it clear that when he determines the committee responsible, he defines what the commission's obligations are under this letter. Otherwise, this memo I think will cause a debate that won't have... any act or any realisation of what the Office of Audit is doing...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11627	Thank you very much. Mirsad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11628	I thank the chairman. Just correcting the wrong quote to Mr. Novaković. So the kancelarija made a clear request to seek its independence and to seek conditions for work. The financial and budget committee has given its opinion and we have an opinion, and here we have a, transparent, and I don't think there's any dilemma. We, I think, or we think from the SBB that this agenda item should remain on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11629	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11630	Respected chairman, respect for all his colleagues, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, guests, journalists, etc. I suggest that the Council of Ministers withdraw from the agenda of this session, paragraph 5 and point 32. tačka 5, for the simple reason that there is no argument in the Law on Allocation criteria. We're passing a law that has no defined criteria, which, how, why, how does it get right? tačka 32, I think it's even declassified to go in, because this turns out to be a debate, why pull it out. Why withdraw this protocol? I'll just say two things. Whoever signed it didn't read it. The last memorandum of the Serbian Academy of Science, prescribed, I will do this if there is a discussion, a parallel read, copied and incorporated into this memo, why should I as an MP raise my hand. I can't understand that the members of the Bureau, who took an oath on the Constitution of this state, signed this. I am very precise, the last memo is prescribed and is in what I should vote for, and I suggest that the Council of Ministers withdraw this anyway and discuss this with the Presidency a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11631	Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11632	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers. 44 I don’t know, and I can’t help but wonder that this Parliament has come to this stage that we are dealing with everything except what is our duty. 20 and a few years of people in this country, including neighbouring countries, are looking for their missing. So, the Council of Ministers... Co-operation protocol. We do everything in this country for politics, we deal with the Serbian Academy of Sciences, instead of dealing with our own if we have it. We do everything and everything except what the citizens of this country are interested in. And that's why I can't really, I come from a party that is an opposition party, but I can't believe when people negotiate, I know how hard it is to come to a protocol, to an agreement, how many people spend time, how much... this country actually... I don't know what families who are looking for their missing will tell you when you don't want to ratify the missing persons protocol today. Secondly, I think that this Parliament is slowly entering a phase of populist courtship. And that's why I can't agree to this request to take down the agenda point where you have a big group in this country that's looking for it. It's unreasonable for me, I don't know, and if it's reasonable for you to have a seat, you can take off all the agenda points that most of us have suggested. I think we're going into one situation where everything becomes politics in this country, from law to declaration, conclusions, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11633	Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11634	As MPs, we have the right and obligation to read materials and we have read very well this planned Protocol between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. To my question, at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission two days ago, if this agreement is concluded with Montenegro, the answer is not. Whether it is concluded with Hrvastska, the answer is not. Whether Croatia has concluded such an agreement with Serbia, the answer is again or not or not. Another thing, how can I put such a material, rough, inaction into this Protocol? How can Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia regulate former SFRY issues, from Slovenia to Macedonia, without talking about other things. This is exactly for the families of the missing issue, because here it is said, in preamble says – the right family to know the truth. We represent a state that respects the judicial truth of the UN's highest legal court of the International Court of Justice. On the other hand, we are signing a protocol with a state that, as a member of the UN, does not respect the judicial planetary truth. And we're not asking anything else but to pull this off the agenda today and wait for some things so we can talk cold heads about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11635	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11636	With all due apologies, I'll just say, Mr. Bećirović beat me to it and took some of what I should have said, I'll just repeat, as an MP, I'm obliged to read, I'm obliged to analyse, I'm obliged to get to know the facts, and the facts are what Mr. Bećirović has now said. And the fact is that when I read from letter to letter what is written and in the signature is Dobrica Ćosić. I'll read it in the discussion if it comes to that. So the fact that 45 is in this thing that we're supposed to verify. So it's a fact. And I think as MPs, we should know what, how and how we're going to verify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11637	Thank you very much. In order to avoid confusion with Momčilo Novaković, it says that the third time is the correction of the wrong quote, it is only because of that order, so go ahead. Momčilo Novaković, this is the second correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11638	Thank you. I have to say, really, that all of us here are reading materials, not just these colleagues, who were just discussing, materials, and the rest of us are reading materials. And it seems to me that we are reading the same materials, unless in your language this material looks different than in our language, or in the language of the people in which I receive the material. We can also talk about the Protocol, and it makes sense to talk, but talk about whether we should sign the Protocol with a country, it's not bold, it's, I can't even say rudely, I can't say undiplomaticly, because all of it is. Imagine, we sign the protocol with Serbia. We would over a third... sign the protocol with Serbia. Look, please, but we don't mind taking a few million from Serbia for Srebrenica. That's not our problem. Not so bad, or from another country, I took Serbia because my colleague, not before me, before me is Backović, but a colleague before Mr Backović, I guess he can't hide his animosity towards Serbia in this House, so this is the tenth or I don't know what discussion in this sense. Here, I ask him yes, it's fortunate that his word has no weight, so he won't disrupt those relationships. And I guess it's from Bog's grace, it's from Bog's grace that he's not asked, and yet he won't disturb.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11639	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11640	Here, Madam Chairman, that... perhaps and... we are all here in the BiH Parliament to protect the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is not possible to push the fact that in the environment we have both Croatia and Montenegro and Serbia, countries in the environment. And it can't be overworked that we've come out of one situation that we have to look into the future, that we have to improve relationships. I expected those who criticise any agreement with neighbouring countries today to be focused on the future. Do we know that... the fact is that the state exists. I don't mind taking off this item of the agenda, but whoever wants to protect the interest... now that you're taking... and watching, so more people of Bosnia and Herzegovina are missing are asking Serbia. Well, I guess there's a crucial interest here. And instead of saying that this is to be commended, and the Council of Ministers, that there has been an agreement on the search for missing persons with Serbia, I don't know how it was solved with Croatia, it's probably settled, and with Montenegro, because it's not that big of an extent, we're exhibiting everything today... which is amazing to me. 46 So I know that there are those who would gladly not exist in those countries. There are unfortunately,...people, there is Serbia as a state. There is also Bosnia where I live... I defend the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know whose interest you're defending, I don't know, I really don't get it. Whose interest is defended if it's said I don't want an agreement, and all the countries facing Brussels say we're leaders of reconciliation. That reconciliation leader is one day Serbia, so the next day is Bosnia, so I don't know, and Herzegovina, etc. What are we leaders of? Let's let the people come to their senses if it makes sense. So there's a country, you can say we're not going to have any agreements with Serbia. Okay, give the order to the Council of Ministers, you have a parliamentary majority, so let's see what the reaction of those who are watching Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to the EU will be. This is schizophrenic and insane to me, I'm sorry. And I don't mind if you want that deal removed. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, let them take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11642	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11643	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think we're wasting our time breaking the Rules of Procedure by a significant number of MPs in the House of Representatives. I think there are questions about which there is absolutely no debate here. I would like to tell you if it is possible for you, all who chair, to be bound by the same moment, if someone wants to discuss the item on the agenda in accordance with Article 70, that there is absolutely no debate, we are wasting insignificant time, selling this Parliament a distinct nationalist rhetoric, disrupting our mutual relations by assuming what will happen on 24 or 31 March, and introducing this country into continued readiness in European departments, in continuing problems in European departments. What does it even mean to request the removal of the agenda with a verdict of March 24th and March 31st? What is the message to anyone in this country that we prejudge in any way and what is going to happen to this country in the first place? Do we need to call again for all possible bells conflicts, in every way possible, in this country by misunderstanding and by not having an understanding of this... Next, what kind of story is it that some agreement is part of some memo? We're told by people who have absolutely nothing to do with it. Furthermore, that we are in the greatest conflicts, that anyone was, whether this country should build the future by requiring additional conflict and additional stories about the other, and on the other hand saying that our way to the EU is. What is the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the EU if it does not have the best possible relations with the Republic of Croatia, Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia? What's the future like here anyway? So in that sense, I think that this is just a waste of time, calling for further outflows of hate and conflict, and when we declare these points of the agenda, it is absolutely right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that everyone votes against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11644	Time. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11645	So, here yesterday, here, specifically yesterday at the Expansive College of the Presidents of the SDP Club, he was, in no word asked for the removal of this point, of this Protocol on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia. If that was, yesterday happened, which you disagreed with, but you accepted, I didn't hear you at all discussing what was not respected, which is included as a mandatory item of the agenda. So I think this is a typical populist story in which the position is called to vote against its, the Council of Ministers and the decision it adopts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11646	Thank you. I fully understand and welcome your debate and about these corrections of the wrong quote and the debate on the agenda, but of course every MP has his right to do so. I will once again warn all MPs and MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure both in the debate and in the time set. And how much, we all give a picture of one Parliament, and I think it's too much to comment on what kind of picture we're sending. Here you are, Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11647	I will not deal with speculation, I will neither present my views nor I have very precise views on these issues, I will adhere exclusively to legal facts and legal arguments. So, this Protocol, which should now be ratified by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, 21 years after Dejton, right now in this month of March, is a matter regulated by the Dayton Peace Agreement. Annex I (a), Article 9(2) and aneks vi, Article 5. Missing persons. I'm just asking us to implement what's already been signed by the Dayton Peace Agreement. It's another legal fact. The Dayton Peace Agreement speaks clearly and is concluded with a formulation – a tragic conflict in the region.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11648	Please, please, please, I warn you, this is not a debate on the interpretation of the Agreement, but whether there will be an agreement on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11649	Don't be afraid of the arguments, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11650	I'm never afraid of arguments. I'm based on the arguments and I'm telling you this. Please, I call on the Rules of Procedure, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11651	These arguments are so clear and clear that you won't be able to hide them, and let me use my time, within the time itself. So, third thing. Bosnia and Herzegovina's units were not in Serbia, but the Scorpions unit was on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. We can't possibly be in the same position when we talk about this matter. And counterpart Backović spoke about 48 memos..., it is true, the strategic goal... the memorandum is to reduce Serbia's responsibility and level it with its neighbours. And this is the realization of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11652	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11653	Not wanting, of course, to say that I am against, on the contrary, I am for overall co-operation at all levels, on all issues, in all forms, etc., but I am against being incorporated and brought through what is called the Protocol, and we adopt, adopt, and so they say, dry something that is, and I said I will read, I will read in the context of the discussion, it is not a problem, to reduce Serbia's responsibility for crimes committed and destruction, as it says in the memoranda and indictments, arrests and mounted trials against citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Kosovo put Serbia in an equal position with countries in the environment. This is how it says it. Distract the attention of regional and international media with completed processes of former members...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11654	I'm asking an esteemed representative, who is the replica or the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11655	On two of my colleagues, from the student to the student, Nikola and the colleague who had previously spoken, and here he came out, about the degutivity of the mention of giving funds to Srebrenica and the commitment to this issue, because all the facts suggest that both the responsibility for solving in Srebrenica and those who gave these formal small funds is small, for trying to revitalise life in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11656	jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11657	I would invite my colleague Špirić when he qualified my proposal to take care of Article 11. The Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates, which says MPs and delegates are obliged especially not to use words and expressions that may offend or demean others. And fellow Špirić has just done this by qualified MPs' proposals, and we have the right and duty when we think that we are proposing amendments or additions to the agenda. And in that I see nothing controversial or see the reasons for this kind of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11658	Mirsad Mešić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11659	Madam Chairman, on behalf of the Club, I'm looking for a 30-minute break for this debate that was just being held. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11660	Are you looking for an argument?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11661	I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11662	I'm taking a break on the proposal of a representative, president of the SDP Club of 30 minutes. We can keep working. I'm calling on the president of the SDP club to explain the reasons we're looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11664	Madam Chairman, therefore, we asked for a break because of further consultations on the point proposed by Mr Bećirović. We've done our consultations, and we're ready to continue our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11665	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11666	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I must refer to these demands to be removed from the agenda, Mr Bećirović, and to the presentation of Mr. Novaković's colleagues. First, I don't think there is any reason for this point to be removed from the agenda, because it has passed all the procedures and poses no serious danger to the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the esteemed Dr Bećirović. Namely, I think we should sign a protocol with any country if the result of that protocol is to find at least one missing person. It's very hard to live without looking for someone without knowing where they are or where they are. And the story of how it's going to even the sides, I mean the opposite. The protocol with Serbia is signed because this Protocol and Protocol show that Serbia was involved in a war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And he confirms it. More missing people were found in Serbia from Bosnia and Herzegovina than JNA soldiers from Serbia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I don't think this point should be removed from the agenda and adopted because it already works at the operational level. And as for the money from Serbia for Srebrenica, I think that finding, colleague Novaković, does not stand, because Serbia owes Srebrenica 50 million, I think it is similar to Zvornik, and it is only a small part of the money Serbia owes for what it had to do earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11667	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11668	Thank you very much. Well, I checked in while the Council of Ministers Chairmans and one of the ministers were here, and I wanted to suggest that, considering, and here comes the chairman, since we hear a lot of these reactions, uh, essentially, it would be good for them to explain this thing a little bit, because it will help us determine ourselves more easily and get out of this story. You see how much time we spend, and if we get to the end of clearer attitudes, then we will be more determined than how we will plead on the vote itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11669	Correction of the false allegation, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11670	Thank you. I have answered to replicate all of us, i.e. all those who participated in the debate, and, above all, to Mr Džaferović and you as members and members of the College. For a simple reason, Mr. Džaferović's presentation made it clear that something should be done to make the sessions different or more regular. You said that, Mr. Džaferović, and while you were chairman of this House and a year and a half after ours, did the mandate not take place. Why the replica of the College? I'm experiencing us here quite evenly, you're all, or you three primus inter paras, the first among the equals, so that you should find a model, but that this one be fashionable to be equal to all of us, and when you take away the word, and when you give the word, and when you warn that time is running out, and not that someone enters the red, that its two or three, five minutes have elapsed, and some are allowed to overrun. I also have to refer to all colleagues who also don't respect the agenda, don't respect the Rules of Procedure, but I think it's because they simply mirrored you as a College and we act the way the Kolega treat us. That's why I'm going back to the agenda and I'm going to propose to take down points 12, 17 and 20. I delivered the explanation in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11671	I'm warning you, you can't do this under the wrong assumption, report for the debate, so suggest your agenda. As for the order in this House and us as a College, I will say in my capacity as chairman that I also feel like the first among the equals, to work in the Rules of Procedure and to warn everyone on time and only in answering questions did I deny anyone the answer, because MPs are asking. And all the pictures of it come from this Parliament in total, I have never gone, nor said that this picture goes to the burden of any representative or his face, and you contribute to that picture, of course, to You. Senad Šepić's hearing. Here you go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11672	Thank you very much. After the last events, which we could see in Visegrad, I announced a request and an initiative to adopt a law banning the actions of hate-expanding organisations, now that I'm not saying it to the end, national, religious, ethnic and any other kind of hatred. I believe that we should have one such legal solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we should do it for all of us. Since we've already said that, and in this first part of these parliamentary issues, I'm not going back to that thing again, except to say I'm not up for politicizing one of those issues and these events that we had in Visegrad are just the last in a series of such cases. Since I have heard from several colleagues in the last days, representatives of my colleagues from Republika Srpska, that they have said they are ready to support a solution that will come from the Council of Ministers, which will be prepared by the Council of Ministers, and today we have heard from the chairman Zvizdić who said that they already have a working group and that they are working on making and preparing such a law, so that we do not double, I have said that I will join in this existing group and with those solutions and visions that I have about this topic I will help to get a solution that will, too, allow people who are coming, and my colleagues who come from Republika Srpska to accept the adoption of such a legal solution. So it should also contain this part that applies in general to the ban on the spread of every kind of hatred, and on the other hand to the ban on the activities of organisations that essentially do so. So, and until then, in the preparation of one such solution, one comprehensive solution, I will propose together with my colleague Bećirović, who had similar initiatives in the previous period, I will ask for information on all such organisations operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Ministry of Security, because it will be a good basis for us to get the better discussion and the better, that is, the better the quality of the legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11673	Thank you very much. Senad Šepić's debate, please welcome again. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Maja Gasal, then log out of the debate monitor, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11675	I propose to remove the 12th, 17th and 20th points of the agenda for the reason that the reports of the committees mentioned, i.e. on the agenda, were held at the 15th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, held on 22th of July 2015, and at the point when the reports of all the BiH Parliamentary Assembly committees were discussed: – The report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly committees will, in the future, include a table view of all the members, the Commission members as well as the reasons for not holding the committee's meetings in the scheduled time. 52 What do I mean? These three reports do not contain a table picture of members and members, their presence or absence, while other reports contain. It is a non-equal position of the participants, i.e. a participant in committees where their name and last name is mentioned, a table showing their presence or absence, while the reports mentioned above do not stand, but only mentions how many members are present or absent. The question arises as to why the esteemed House, or here we propose conclusions, are being adopted but are not being respected later. So the conclusion would be to take off and mention the chairman and chairman of the board of papers what they haven't done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11676	Thank you very much. At this point, we've exhausted the agenda debate. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. As a result, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović suggested that point 32 be removed from the agenda of today's session. This point of 32 is equipped with the necessary opinion, and it is the mandatory point of today's House of Representatives meeting according to the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the order of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, the proposal proposes, under Article 8, to include at today's session the conclusions that read: – Based on the article, it means, 8 and 71. I am initiating the Rules of Procedure to include the session session of the House of Representatives of the New Point, which reads – The adoption of the conclusion in connection with the payment of the outstanding roles of the Ljubljana Bank's foreign exchange savings, the Sarajevo branch. And there's an explanation. I'll refer to article 71 here. At the beginning of each session of the House, a representative, as well as any authorised promoter, shall have the right to request the absence of a non-binding item and to propose a new one, with appropriate material in writing. So, in this case, we don't have the material, so I'd like to ask the honourable representative to prepare us material for the proposed point by the next session, so of course we'll be able to make a statement about whether or not the material should be a mandatory point. Predrag Kožul The draft wage law was a mere commentary. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić proposes to remove point 32, but asked in his proposal to do so, to do so by the presidency. I would like to say, since this point refers to and the previous point is mandatory material and cannot ask the Council of Ministers to withdraw this point, because it is the Presidency's point, so it remains, means it is mandatory. I would also like to point out that Nikola Lovrinović has proposed that point 3 be removed. Public TV system law. This Law is not equipped with the necessary opinion, so we have proposals from the legislative sector in the context of the debate we discussed, so we will come forward on this proposal by Mr Nikola Lovrinović. Momčilo Novaković also proposes to remove point 24. This point has the Commission's opinion and therefore is a mandatory point. Zaim Backović proposes to remove points 5 and 32. We have the Commission's opinion and it's mandatory according to the Rules of Procedure. 53 I don't think there were any more proposals to take down and pull the dots. So, we are left to vote on Nikola Lovrinović's proposal before we enter the agenda to take point 3 off the agenda of today's session of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11677	One intervention only.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11678	A colleague wants to intervene or sign in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11679	I mean, Madam Chairman, we shouldn't even be complicating when it comes to point 3. This is the Law proposed by an emergency procedure and regardless of the position of the Zakladic-legal sector since the offers are generally taken or left and this is a mandatory item of the agenda. And I didn't have the power to get to that agenda point in the original agenda, but I did it to my extended colleague, and I'd ask you to declare this point a point which is a mandatory point and not to vote on a request to remove this point. If you insist and insist on it, I will not be able to do anything, of course, and I can call the House to refuse such a request, because we need this law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11680	I'd just like my colleagues, I don't want us to have any misunderstandings, I'd also refer to Article 70. – the mandatory point is the one that has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This item did not go through the procedure, it is not mentioned in the Rules of Procedure, nor on the regular, nor on the emergency procedure, it does not separate, so I based my position exclusively on the Rules of Procedure. I hope it's no problem, if this House pleads, just as I respected the attitudes of the College in the extended composition, so I ask you to plead on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11681	Niko's proposal to take it off, we're against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11682	Of the 38 present – for 10, against 25, abstention ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 38 present – for 10, against 26, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 5 for, 21 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, 5 against, with 2 abstentions. I find it not, this proposal did not get the required majority, there is no general majority and I find that the proposal did not get the required majority. This item remains on the agenda of today's session. I find that today's session has the following: 54 Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 25th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-637/16, of 22.02.2016; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-36/15, of 28.12.2015. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-37/15, of 16/02/2016. (first reading); 6. Proposal for an official version of the consolidated text of the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, issue: 01/1-50-3-23/16, link: act No: 01/1,02/1-02-22/15, of 04.02.2016; 7. Proposal for an official version of the consolidated text of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, issue: 01/1-50-3-23/16, link: act No: 01,02-02-1-13/15, of 04.02.2016.; 8. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-19-419/16, of 04.02.2016; 9. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of PSBiH for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-19-469/16, dated 08.02.2016; 10. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives for 2015, issue: 01/1-50-3-180/16, of 03.03.2016; 11. Report on the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives for 2015, issue: 01/2-50-3-180/16, since 15.02.2016; 12. Report on the work of the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs of the House of Representatives for 2015; No: 01/3-50-3-371/16, from 01.02.2016.; 13. Report on the work of the Committee for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives for 2015, issue: 01/4-50-3-180/16, of 11/02/2016; 14. Report on the work of the Committee for Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives for 2015, issue: 01/5-50-3-180/16, of 13/01/2016; 15. Report on the work of the Committee for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives for 2015, issue: 01-50-3-180/16, of 07.03.2016; 16. Report on the work of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH for 2015, issue: 03/1-50-14-237/16, since 01.02.2016; 17. Report on the work of the Joint Committee for Labour Control, Security Agency of BiH for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-14-237/16, dated 15.02.2016; 18. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development for 2015, issue: 03/3-50-14-237/16, of 04.02.2016; 19. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on European Integration for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-14-237/16, dated 19.01.2016; 20. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs for 2015, issue: 03/5-50-14-237/16, dated 08.02.2016; 21. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Human Rights for 2015, issue: 03/6-50-14-237/16, dated 10.02.2016; 55 22. Special Report "Accessibility of the Working Spaces of Legislative Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Persons with Disabilities" – applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01,02,03-12-501/16, dated 10.02.2016; 23. Special Report on (non)respect for human rights and rights in the field of work in the company "Boksit“ Milići, with recommendations – applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, Act No: 03/6-37-471/16, of 09.02.2016; 24. Letter from the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, Act No 01-16-1-227/16, dated 18.01.2016; 25. Review of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, issue: 01-50-1-441/16, from 08.02.2016; 26. Review of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, issue: 01-50-1-442/16, dated 08.02.2016; 27. Review of the Mensure Beganović parliamentary initiative, issue: 01-50-1-504/16, since 11.02.2016; 28. Review of the representative initiative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vagalice, issue: 01-50-1-537/16, from 12.02.2016.; 29. Completion of the Annual Training and Training Plan of Members and Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2016 - applicant: BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1,03/1a-03-339-1/15, dated 19.02.2016; 30. Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking for the appointment of deputy chief auditor of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, materials of the Interim Joint Committee of both homes of the PSBiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Deputy Chief Auditor of the Office of the BiH Institutions, issue: 01,02-34-2-551/16, dated 15.02.2016; 31. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both PSBiH homes, issue: 01,02-50-14-838/16, since 16.03.2016; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Cooperation in the Search for Missing Persons between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, issue: 01,02-05-2-541/16, dated 15.02.2016; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina LD 1836 (2014) – credit for the social programme of housing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, which is implemented by the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank (IRBRS), number: 01.02-05-2-542/16, since 15.02.2016. Before we begin to discuss the agenda points, in accordance with Article 27, point (f), I shall limit the debate to 5 minutes in all points of the agenda. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 25th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11686	I thank the chairman. My question concerned the acquisition of business premises for the accommodation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, eastern Sarajevo, Mostar and Tuzla, which we heard more - 57 less about in the media. And I have to say, I'm shocked by what I got. There has already been talk about the accommodation of the Corruption Prevention Agency and how much this space has been subscribed, but I will look back at something else, a space that was purchased 722 squares in Banja Luka, the value of squares 4.147 marks. Dear colleagues here to know, and the fact that I've seen an Ombudsman, they can also confirm, this isn't business space, it's bought one entrance, the apartments are bought in a residential building, apartments from 3 to 7 floors. And now the Ombudsman in Banja Luka he sits in the living room, and his secretary sits in the kitchen, and then they're fenced there later and the square is 4,100. Some would say – perhaps in Banja Luka so much. But there's one problem, you know, next to the government building, close to that building, for a year we've all been watching the billboard square 1.999 marks. Now, this billboard that we've been looking at and saying is a square of 1,999 marks, so it's no longer 1,999 but 4,100 marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11687	Thank you. Senad Šepić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11688	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I had a question to the Council of Ministers regarding the position of the UN railway. Maybe people who come from Krajina have become here and too much, maybe sometimes even boring when they talk about some of the issues and some of the problems we have, but it's actually because we're not quite sure that often here institutions that should show understanding, interest in that environment, don't show it. So, the Una Strip and in some way, this end of Uno-San canton is completely bypassed by many infrastructure projects, communication projects, we're bypassed by Corridor 5C, from projects of other highways that, here we have designed or we want to make them in the next period, and one of the things that could be our support in that sense is just a relationship for putting into function of the Una Strip. I have proposed this initiative to the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers to consider these activities and to consider activities for the renewal and deployment of the Union railway, and to inform us of the activities undertaken. That's where I got the answer, which is about ninety-five percent of what we've always received in such similar answers so far, which is that we are persistently directed into constitutional jurisdiction in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we all know more than anyone else. We know that this is a primary entity-treated issue, but we also know that there are some opportunities that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should use when it comes to infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are regionally these programmes, European funds, so the possibility of joining many European infrastructure development networks. So far, we have not used them for ignorance, for non-interest or for any other reason, but we use very little of the opportunities that we now use, especially at this moment when we have opened a new phase with the EU, are opening up. Here in this answer, I got one, in this, in response to this initiative, so there's one that's extremely factual to this mistake. It says – although there are demands and initiatives so far there have been no concrete results because in Croatia, there is no interest in establishing regular international traffic in the said railways, nor in the Croatian railways 58. In my initiative, and in earlier talks, I provided five letters of support from these institutions from Croatia. So we can't say that they don't want it, that they don't show interest. Therefore, here is an additional request that you consider this, that on the basis of this interest that exists from Croatia, you build some of our next step and the next attitude. And here I am, in accordance with this initiative, in agreement and through these letters of support and through their proposals, which we have in writing, to prepare a project of the Union railway and to run for the next conference on the Western Balkans that will be held in Paris this year. The second thing, I would also suggest, given that there is this interest from Croatia, that the agenda of the joint session of the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as I am under discussion, is to hold the session, to necessarily include this issue, and also to include the issue of borders with this issue. We talked before about these problems we have with the border crossings. And, of course, this problem with the disposal of the radioactive waste of Trgovina Gora and the known issue at the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will deliver this in writing, therefore, with explanations, but I ask you to keep this in mind when you conduct your next activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11689	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11690	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I asked the question to be told – has the Association of Music Creators of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or AMUS registered, ever been supervised by the work of this Association and what has been established by the supervision team, and has the Council of Ministers of BiH been familiar with the problems? I got the answer that it was registered according to the law, I got the answer that it was supervised, I didn't get an answer as to what the surveillance was determined, which I guess is more important than whether it was supervised or not. I also received, in response, that the 2014 AMUS work surveillance report is ongoing. Today is 2016, we can think about what was found in that report when a year and a half of days should be done, or nothing was found, so again it takes us a year and a half to make that report. But not the essence of this, the point is that in the meantime, another organisation has been given the right to register and to do the same work, it is the Association of Artists and Players, based in Vogišca, which is also registered under the law, which has been given consent from our intellectual property, or the Intellectual Property and Copyright Agency, in which they now inform radio stations, performers, users of services that they are responsible for protecting the rights of performers and players, and that these – AMUS are responsible for protecting copyright. So now they charge each other for the same song, they protect the author and these performers. What, of course, is that, if there happens to be a poem within the song, we'll have an association to protect the critics, then an association to protect passionate political speakers, patriots, etc., etc. And now that this isn't a joke at all, it's the fact that they're taking that money from radio stations and others. And now, 59 examples, no matter what you play or don't play at your station, you get a form in which you should give the following data, gross income achieved in 2015, paid taxes on profits, paid taxes, paid fees to RAK, net income achieved, income per research, from research journalism, etc., etc. So, all the data you once had to give to SDK now you have to give to AMUS or AIS or some new one that's going to show up to put 2% in there for you. And now if the intellectual property agency is a few more, and there's another one in the register, another agency, then that number will rise 2, 4, 6, 8, 10%, and of course there's going to be a huge burden on all these people who broadcast it, and in the end we'll have the opportunity to have these radio stations broadcast only our passionate political speeches here, and there won't even be music, and then we'll be charging us with these copyrights. I mean, we're going to, I'm going to take this issue seriously in the next period and this is not the last question, but not the last one of these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11691	Thank you. Ambassador Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11692	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, and I am not satisfied with what I have been told, although I have expected this kind of response, but I thank Mr. Kutleša for giving me the answer in due time. My representative question, to remind you, was related to various and numerous working bodies of various and excessive institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, these are agencies, institutes, centres, directors, commissions, councils, offices, etc. I asked – did the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the recommendations of the Financial Audit Report, launch activities to record all committees, councils, committees, which, by working groups and so on, with the aim of reviewing the justification for the establishment and existence of these working bodies, and thus the justification for spending potentially large amounts of social money, according to the multimillion-dollar audit report? In fact, the point of the question was the fact that at the state level we have 70 institutions, and that a calm conscience could be said that there are at least a third of those that we don't need at all or at least simply could be without them. Almost as many of these so-called so-called institutions were formed. working bodies which, according to the data from this response, have 62, and truly, and it is not difficult to determine, certainly have much more. I'm afraid no one really knows how much. In a different way, it is argued that the Council of Ministers, I quote, "The Council of Ministers has a precise record of all working bodies." And here, I continue to believe that this list is not complete, and that, in addition to it, there should be data on the duration of the mandate, the tasks, it is not, the tasks, the fees, and in particular on the names of the members of those working bodies, and the list, I say, should not be too long, so that the same similar, mah... civil servants sit in who knows how many of these commissions and committees, and secondly, disembark existing institutions by taking over their powers and tasks for which regular salaries and fees are given at the same time for working in those working bodies. I think, in the end, that if nothing and what is in light of the Reform Agenda is necessary as soon as possible to address these issues. The prerequisite for that is exactly what I was looking for, the need to have and we all get the reliable information that I've listed here. The obstacle to reviewing the eligibility of the establishment and of certain institutions, in particular their working bodies, must not be limited to the finding of 60 in order to, again, quote from the reply "requesting the eligibility and abolition of those working bodies would mean amending a number of legal and sublegal acts". Of course you would. But we're here to correct what the right isn't, I'm at the end, I'm following how many others were saying, so it's up to us to fix it so we don't have to support everything in the law. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Of course not in a way that sometimes seems, it is also said in this response, to behave in 2015, at the end of 2015. The Council of Ministers orders such institutions that had a negative report audited to, in future, make a plan in the next two years. Anyway, I think it's here, that the key words here are the Reform Agenda, especially with the emphasis on public administration reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11693	Damir Arnaut, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11694	I've seen, I've noticed in the case of two colleagues, uh, that you're trying to limit their discussion, however...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11695	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11696	Business intervention, you do not have a business basis, and I will appeal, meaning to the conclusion of the chair of the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, from 12 January 2016, during the agenda point – Comments on the answers received, Mr Backović said that some MPs had exceeded the length of their comments to the answers received, the chairman Krišto then said – thank you very much, quoting from the stenogram "Here for your comment I thought that you had learned for this time the Rules of Procedure, you know that the comments on the answers to written questions are not actually limited, are on these lips that are being asked by the Council of Ministers, but on these letters are not limited." So we already have the conclusion of the College on this matter, so you have no business justification for limiting the discussion in this part.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11697	So we have a debate primarily limited to 5 minutes, and on the other hand I will remind you of article 171 that says – The dom predsjedavajući gives an opportunity to an MP who asked the question asked in writing whether he was satisfied or not. If the representative is not satisfied, or the MP is not satisfied with the answer, he may ask an additional parliamentary question in writing. So, please, I'm asking you now to keep this Rules of Procedure in mind. Those who are not satisfied with the answer have the opportunity to ask an additional question. Here you are, the next Šemsudin Mehmedović, a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11698	Here, we're just gonna start respecting the Rules of Procedure right from me. I'm happy with the answer, because I finally got an answer after a few months and I have a chance, so let me just say a short half-nimute. 61 I was asking questions, not to the previous Minister of Transport and Communications, but to the previous meeting of the Council of Ministers of Transport and Communications, and I didn't get an answer until today, and I certainly won't get one, because I got an answer I didn't ask from the current Ministry of Transport and Communications. Why am I saying this? I used to ask questions about various consulting services, with whom this Ministry and whose interests are concluded by such contracts that weigh several tenths, including hundreds of thousands of marks. Why am I saying this? I'll just remind you of, here's two basic clauses of the contract, saying that a certain consultant, Kristofer Oven Hjuč(?) at a price of 90,000 KM shall intervene in establishing better connections with the local community. Is it necessary for someone from outside to come and take our money and keep us calm, to tell us how to make better relationships? Another thing, to ensure that the demining is carried out in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law. Please don't make fools of us and don't let us ask at all if we won't get adequate answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11699	Thank you. Ambassador Fehim Škaljić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11700	Mr. Chairman Bosić, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Zvizdić, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers. I received an answer after 200 days, on an incomplete site, on the subject of what happened to Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets and all its constitutional forms and requiring it to be given in one review which will explain what it is. I could say thank you for the answer, the update is exceptional, I could also say that I am satisfied with the answer, because it confirms that it is an area that we do not fully control and confirms that we are MPs on the sidelines of the executive's interest, because what I have received is completely unusable. In response, I refer to the things I know – what I need to ask the Council of Ministers' Joint Affairs Service to ask the resolution ministries to ask the Attorney General. I, ladies and gentlemen, knew that, am not a beginner here. I wanted to check to this House, among other things, how we grow in the capacity of the Coordination Mechanism. Can we also get facts about what's on entities, what's in the county, that in some way we would have publicly shown responsibility for our assets in various forms outside Bosnia and Herzegovina in other countries. It is obvious that since 2007 when the Council of Ministers formed a single body, a committee that collected it, this has remained beyond our knowledge of the wider public and of this Parliament. I don't think that's a good thing, that's not the way we're going to put into focus the topics that voters ask of us and have an argument for what we get in response. What I got can also be interpreted as confirming what I thought it was, but I can also interpret as my failure to even ask a question to get this answer, you know that's the answer, what ordinary people say – how you are, how you still are. Please give the Institute an answer to the parliamentary questions of credibility. It's not embarrassing to say we have no data, we can't give it at this point, we have half, but don't formalize, we don't need any sides. In the construction of modern Bosnia and Herzegovina, its democratic capacity, parliaments have an important role, and MPs are members of the parliament. Let's have as many relationships with them as their role. Thank you very much. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11701	Thank you. We will now give our word, I apologize to Mr Lovrinović for his technical problems, Damir Arnaut was taken instead of a business intervention by his comment, therefore he is working now. Damir Arnaut, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11702	I thank the chairman. It may have worked out just as well as Mr. Škaljić had just spoken before me, because here I am now going to relate to this, to Parliament, so I ask you to respect the fact that from last session I have received answers to seven parliamentary questions, I will not comment on them all, but it is, don't interrupt me. So, above all, the answer to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Information Centre, which I asked, which I asked the question – how much in this meeting of the Council of Ministers of Response delivered in time. And they, the Information Centre, I really congratulate them and those who worked and managed the Centre, this very precise analysis did and found that out of 82 asked questions, in those 12 months, the Council of Ministers and its individual members provided the answers on time in 13 cases, so 15%. In order to get a full picture, it should be said that the 15% average exists in general thanks to the Justice Ministry alone, who have an average response on time of 40% and the Civil Service average response at 44.4%. In all other ministers, the average is 0%, so no answer from others except justice and civilians came in time. I am aware that ministers are not the ones who are preparing answers to parliamentary questions, they are doing a lot of services, a lot of counselors, but it is obvious that their bosses are then not holding them accountable because the average of 0% for eight of the ten members of the Council of Ministers shows that something is wrong. This, however, concerns the dignity of this House and the Parliamentary Assembly and I therefore again and again, and this I keep asking for, I never get an answer from the College, that the College, in accordance with Article 20, is taking all measures to enable MPs to receive answers in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which, in the light of which provisions we also appoint but also resolve members of the Council of Ministers. As for questions about the work holiday programme, finally, after many attempts, I received a reply from the Ministry of Civil Affairs that over the past two years they have not taken any action on the work holiday programme that allows 100 young people to live and work on New Zealand for up to a year. The ministry responded that no activity has been undertaken in the past two years because they are awaiting the New Zealand initiative. It's as if New Zealand is in the interest of their 100 young people coming to work in Bosnia and Herzegovina for up to a year. Meanwhile, Croatia and Slovenia have concluded these agreements with nov Zeland, but precisely because they have not been waiting for the New Zealand initiative, they have already launched it themselves. I know this is not a failure by the Minister of Civil Affairs of the current, but by his predecessor, but mostly by the officers of the Ministry. Less than a month ago, I received New Zealand's ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he stressed that there is a willingness on their part, but the initiative should come from our side. I received an answer from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations that I am not satisfied with, and I will ask an additional parliamentary question. I am pleased with the response of the Ombudsman institution in BiH, they delivered an incorrect report, but because they received the wrong 63 information from the secretary of the Joint Service of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Joint Committee on Human Rights has adopted certain conclusions and there will be still time to discuss this issue. And now finally from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs I've got so-called. the answer, and indeed under quotes, to the question that I have asked for the delivery of the number of acts that each individual diplomatic and consular representative has given to the Ministry's headquarters over the past three years, as well as the number of contacts at the level of importance that each individual DKP has achieved during that period. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs literally replied that they do not want to give the data, because they are, I quote, "thinking that the carrying out of the numbered data required would not give a real and relative picture of the work of the ministry". If I were interested in the Ministry's opinion on the matter, I would have asked for it, but I did ask for a review of the facts and contacts. And this is much more important than the Parliament's own issue, this raises the dignity and authority of this House, this House, this Parliament, after all, because if the Kolega allow members of the Council of Ministers to give opinions on which questions they need, and which is no longer to be answered soon, no one will get answers to the parliamentary questions, and the supervisory role of this House over the Council of Ministers will be fully unthinked. To be clear, I did not ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deliver something that is no longer available, although the distinguished colleague Marković, who I see is not there, gave an uninformed opinion that my request is too widespread. Here is proof that it is not too widespread, here is an analysis of the report by the BiH DKP from earlier years, which compared everything, how many acts the DKP delivered to the ministry, on which the area, on which the topic is sorted by the DKP, and even there is a list of DKPs from the best to the worst. Here's also your contact analysis, back in line from the best DKP to the worst. I am now asking, on behalf of the Club, a five-minute break, and I am asking the College to use this break to explain to the Council of Ministers that they should give answers to parliamentary questions, not opinions on whether or not they will give answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11703	Can you give up your break since we have a few more questions, so we'll take a break for lunch?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11704	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11705	...you realize that the break, that the purpose of the break is not, is not at all intended to be obstruction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11706	It's an educational break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11707	But I would ask you, given that I have referred the College to an act in which I ask you to explain it to the Council of Ministers, and nothing the College has done on this matter, at least I am not informed...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11708	You have, you have the right to raise an additional question. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11709	I'll give up my break, but I hope you'll answer my question then and take steps towards the Council of Ministers on this matter, because I can't answer that they won't answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11710	I agree. So, please, Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11711	Thank you. So, quite an introduction Mr. Škaljić gave me about his thinking in relation to us. I don't know it's not a full college now, but can the chairman ask you – do I have the right to ask the D.A. about something I'm interested in?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11712	If you ask me, you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11713	Well, they don't answer me for, like, ten months, so there are some questions that I've asked them don't answer, and I'm not happy with the answer because they haven't answered anything. So, I got some answers, and now I'm going to talk about the teams that I got, and to be absurd, even bigger than the discipline part of the VSTV, I got the answer that I last time commented on, and it's in these answers here, and I asked them to give me an answer to the question – did the prosecution do the right thing when they arrested those 5 people from the Oxygens who were later released, so without any proof they did it. He tells me a disciplinary judge, says – if you consider in a specific case, or as you state in your letter to the Office, you have knowledge of the way of handling the justice holder. Well, what else did I ask them, I mean, I don't get it. Of course I'm not happy. One more question is, the answer I got from, from the College, you didn't mention it here, which I'm not happy with. I asked, therefore, for an explanation of the status of the audit in respect of the impact review, alluding to the review of the impact of August last year, so I asked for a specific explanation of Article 3. – The objectives of the Office of Audit. I got some, like, semi-private, is the answers, that the College can't give that answer, that it should sort it out in some other way. And I will, therefore, at the next impact of the revision, uh, ask that their audit not be adopted anymore because they are not okay. And I got an answer from the assistant chief of New Sarajevo, the municipality of Novo Sarajevo, for twenty years harassing two or three families who were left without an apartment in the war, so don't make them houses, don't give them any solutions, and you can think everything they're doing, so the chief had so much consideration about my question that he didn't even answer me, but he answered me his assistant. And I'm just telling Mr. New Sarajevo chief that I won't stop at it, he'll get new questions, and maybe a lawsuit, so, because he doesn't implement the Annex VII agreement, so Annex VII of the peace framework agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I didn't get any more answers. The one I get from the D.A. I'll be commenting on someday, I hope. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11714	Okay, thank you. Ambassador jasmin Emrić, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11715	I was also not satisfied with the answer, because I did not get an answer to the initiative that I passed on to the Council of Ministers on 13 January 2016, and the initiative was to provide information to the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the conclusion adopted at the 18th session of the House of Representatives, and the conclusion concerns the making of remarks, arguments and facts in order to challenge the construction of a dump or disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste in the municipality of Dvor along the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 15 January 2015, the House of Representatives addressed the Council of Ministers' initiative and asked for the response to the initiative to be delivered within 30 days. It's been 60 days, I didn't get an answer, I didn't get information. Due to the current procedures and public debates held in the Republic of Croatia with very precise deadlines, I ask the Council of Ministers to respond as soon as possible – whether and in any way, it has reached the relevant conclusion of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11716	So, the MP Hanka Vajzović, who already had, signed up, please, if she's...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11717	Since, thank you very much, since the end of the list is no longer registered, I wanted to ask the College, if possible, to agree between you on what he was saying, as noted by fellow Arnaut. So, indeed, the chairman said that it is not limited here, and then if it is, or if it is, or if it isn't to be equal to everyone. We here have both the obligation and the right to speak for three minutes when half of what was more important is left out, something else perhaps said, it would be as good to be clear as who, and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11718	Okay, thank you. I've been holding that for five minutes it's been agreed, you see, but I didn't insist on the business provision that you just have to state whether you're satisfied or not, and you're not going to give an additional question, so I've tolerated saying what you have in some normal time. There, that was the reason. I'm taking a lunch break in an hour, so at 3:45 we're going on. Please take your seats to continue the work of Parliament. Moving to the third item of the agenda, 66 Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-637/16, of 22.02.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11721	Thank you, Mr. President. So, of course you assumed I was going to talk about this wheel. For the sake of the public, I must say, therefore, that the Council of Ministers' proposal came upon an urgent procedure by revote on this legislative proposal, as was the case with the College in the extended composition where only the Bosniak people's colleagues supported that this item be on the agenda today, and there were no conditions satisfied, which we were already discussing in determining the agenda and did not accept, therefore my thinking. Today, I am limited to the debate only under the notion of payment of tv fees, because here there is a lot of talk about this Law and the work of the RTV System Committee and I believe that the time will come to discuss all the issues concerning the Law on the Public TV System, or the Public TV Service of BHRT. I'll limit myself, so this is the story of the tv fee. I have said in the debate on the agenda that it is amazing, it is amazing that the second time, past the official procedure, so the entire Parliament participates in the adoption of amendments to the law, in my view and in my view no one has so far denied me, in amendments to Article 42 which is actually an article which concerns transitional and final provisions of the Law adopted since 2005. Since 2005, this article has been envisaged by the law, so as not to remain in the position that TV services cannot, therefore, collect a RTV tax in any way, thus continuing their work. This article at the time referred to the first period of office permit. And imagine, so the first license for the work of the tv service, as far as I have information at the moment, was only obtained in 2010. This means that from 2005, when the Law was passed, they worked without permission, they picked up the subscription, they worked, etc. I speak as much as I know. So, if this first permit was made in 2010 and this expired as a transitional and final provision, and Article 18 of course regulated the issue of RTV fees. In addition, Article 22, or 23, which states that money can, of course, be collected by those who collect it, but that the same money must lie in the single account from which it is divided, also according to the model already recognised in the Law. That's not happening either. There are complaints between each other, there are unresolved situations between them. The system board hasn't done anything for years. The Board of Systems is composed of such automation as the Law said that members of the Board of Entity Services and BHRT are automatically members of the Management 67 System Board. So they form a system and unfortunately we have no ingenuity to intervene in that sense, because it's made up of components that we don't all choose. We choose the Board of Directors of BHRT services and we can look for certain things and act there. In addition, I said in the opening part, that what is proposed is contrary to the Consumer Protection Act. I also cited the article and read it. So that I wouldn't just say this all by heart I tried to do some research, which is what one of my colleagues said today, so I asked our Research Centre to see a little bit of this happening in the neighborhood, or a little wider or narrow neighborhood. Like what? in Austria, Belgium, Montenegro, Croatia, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, this TV subscription is collected directly. So, there's no story about Telekom, Elektro, etc., only in Serbia is going over, so the electricity bill. Would you like me to read you just what the amount of these tv subscriptions are? In Austria, it's 38.5 marks, but in the regions, in Belgium, you have 16 marks, with Flamanija cancelling at all a RTV subscription because it's also a fall in response to, how can I say, paying for a TV subscription, Montenegro is doing it from the budget, so in Croatia it's 20 KM, in Germany 34 KM, in Serbia it's 2.4 KM, in Sweden 38, in Switzerland 66, in us is 75(?). I'll just tell you how Austria does it. Austria is doing so in a way that it has formed a single agency called GIS and it is owned by the Austrian Radio Television and the State Ministry of Finance. And they put such collected money in one account that is then shared on state television, but is given to local governments and local governments sharing it with local broadcasters, schools and cultural institutions. So these are all models that are possible and that could be partially applied to us, whether Belgian, whether Swiss, whether Austrian. The system board never tried to offer a solution except when the violin came to the ears. They, therefore, are warned from the.../Embassy that his time has run out/... in the month being saved in such a way as to, therefore, offer changes to the law that does not stand, so. So, since I don't have enough time to cut you short, I'm going to suggest three conclusions on how to track this whole thing down. The first conclusion is that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly responsible for not implementing the Law on the Public TV System, and thus BHRT as a service, is considered by the Management Board of the System, i.e. BHRT. That's the first conclusion. I'm just gonna... Second, the House of Representatives relieves the duties of the Board of Directors of BHRT and requires a procedure for the appointment of the new Management Board of the system. And the third conclusion, the House of Representatives recommends that the entity parliaments initiate the procedure for the resolution of the entity's management boards of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11722	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11723	So don't... we're in, you see what time it is, you let the MP talk about... which has nothing to do with, first of all, what the law says, and second of all, we're discussing the procedure. Don't people that, see what time it is, that... 68
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11724	And what was hurt, I'm sorry, what I think, what you're complaining about, I didn't realize.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11725	...proceeds, Mr. Chairman. So if I read well on this monitor, the man suggests conclusions already,... talking about...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11726	Okay. Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11727	Since we're only discussing a request to consider the Emergency Procedure Act, I will, I have no intention of really discussing this, but I've discussed it publicly several times... so I won't talk about it at the House. I just want to say that today we voted on putting, or removing from the agenda, this contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Namely, this is a mandatory item of the agenda in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure, where it is clear that if the Proposer proposes something urgent, he will consider it at the first session. So it's not possible to take off the agenda, and today's statement was too high, nothing else. Of course, when it comes to emergency procedures, there are different interpretations of whether services could continue this work until 30.06. without extending this member of the Law or, uh, or can only be done on the basis of a decision by the Committee. Anyway, by 30.06, there wasn't much time left. And when we vote or do not declare today this Law unless the System Committee finds an adequate solution by 30.06. we will probably find ourselves in a much worse situation than we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11728	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11729	I thank the chairman. Therefore, Article 133(3) is fully clear. Please, when a request for an emergency procedure is held, the vote shall be held. If a request for an emergency procedure is adopted, the House shall continue to discuss the text of the law itself. So what happens here now? We'll have two debates about the essence of the law, we'll waste time. So, please, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 133, can only be discussed about the request for an emergency procedure at this stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11730	Okay. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11731	I thank the chairman. The SDS club cannot support the emergency procedure for reasons cited by fellow Lovrinović, which are procedural. Besides, I don't know what the urgency is, whether because someone won't, doesn't do their job, doesn't want to do it, expects us to do it instead of 69 of them as legislators. Article 18. The Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 18(3), says that the collection of tv fees can be carried out by public broadcasters through their own services, such as RTRS, or on a contractual basis, can be entrusted to other legal entities. So no one makes it impossible for them to check out that job on their own, Electro-Employment, Telekom. Then why didn't they do it to suit us here? I must express the same dissatisfaction, and that is one reason, perhaps not strong enough but shows the relationship of the Committee of the System to this Parliament. On 23 February 2015, I asked a parliamentary question addressed to the Committee of the System – how many meetings they held from 1 May 2013 to 31 May 2014. Their legal obligation is to hold one session a month. Do you know how long they've kept them? Five, but they took the fees neatly. And since it's also about members of the boards of public tv services their net fees were at an annual level of 38,000 marks of certain members, I'm talking about those who came in front of RTRS, I know for sure. I didn't get an answer to that question today. So, first they need to change their relationship and be responsible for their work. To help them, they have to do their job and help themselves. And that's why we can't support emergency procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11732	Damir Arnaut, I'm guessing the same subject again, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11733	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 133.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11734	Listen, I'm running a session. So, we heard...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11735	Chairman, I just went out to meet you and gave up my break, which doesn't mean I'm going to do it again. Please apply the Rules of Procedure if you are holding a session. You're allowing the debate on the essence of the law. An emergency procedure can be requested when it comes to high-level emergency law, obviously because of the very subject of the Law until 30.06, or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected completely in a single reading. Yes, there is one member, therefore, and here is the debate on the essence of the law. Please don't let this happen, because it clearly violates the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11736	Okay, we learned these comments. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11737	Dear fellow Arnaut, I did not discuss the essence of the Law, I just said there was no reason for an emergency procedure because there are already legal provisions that allow this problem to be solved. I don't see any reason for urgency unless someone wants to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11738	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Denis Bećirović. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11739	I'll do the same as my colleague Arnaut and as very often... last row we warn that the Rules of Procedure must be the same for everyone. I am not saying this right now because the first deputy, Mr. Bosić, is currently presided over, but because we still had a situation today that the chairman, even regularally when you apply, you have those three minutes, several times interrupts the opposition's MPs even in clear matters when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. The matter here is quite clear, the Rules of Procedure prescribes what an emergency procedure is. As this is interpreted, we have another situation here that is moving away from the Rules of Procedure. I must say that we, in the opposition, have the opportunity to respond in such a way as to hold a session and it would be good for the Rules of Procedure to be applied equally to everyone. Given that this has not been the case so far, this is not a colleague of Bosiću's comment on your part of the presidency, but generally for what is happening in the last session of the House of Representatives, on behalf of the SDP Club, I am asking for a break. And one of us will always ask for a break from now on when there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure or of the double arches in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, 15 minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11740	Who's the president of the club and what's the break?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11741	15 minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11742	15 minutes. Well, then after that, we'll be looking for half an hour. We're going back to work. So, is there a need for a breaker to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, we asked for a break to express our dissatisfaction with the permanent violation of the Rules of Procedure, more specifically his article 77, where you in the College allow people to speak beyond the agenda. So that this wouldn't happen in the future and that we wouldn't use that method, please stick to article 77 and your rights to end the debate if it's out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11745	Discussion, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11746	Thank you. Here, let me say a few words which is why I think we should accept this emergency procedure. The first thing he commits here is that it is in accordance with Article 133, which says that the proposing can in writing ask the House to consider the proposal of a high degree of urgency law, or which is formulated in such a simple way, and one and the other is, it can adopt or reject fully, in one reading. 71 Why do I think it is, should it be an emergency procedure? The first thing is Parliament last amended the Law on the Public TV System in 2015 and amending Article 42(4) in a way that charges are made by telecom operators with a conclusion of 26.10.2015. Today is March 17, 2016. So there's no charge for a five-month period, no charge for that period. What else does it mean? If we were to break through and we didn't make a decision that this was going through an emergency procedure, that means that it would happen in 30.06. when this expires, Parliament would have to deal with this problem the same way again. We're in the position of the difficult one we've found ourselves in. We've got two options, let the tv service fail or we'll help them again. That is why the Law has no alternative but to be followed by an urgent procedure. It doesn't matter anymore, it can't help anymore. I think this 30.06 deadline should be limited to this. That's why I thought I would suggest a conclusion, so this conclusion is about this urgency – that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the Committee of the System to propose a new model for the collection of tv fees by 30.04 and inform the House of Representatives about it. If they do so by 30.04, we'll have time to carry out the procedure and adopt it, finally to resolve this issue. If they don't by then, we'll be back in the same position we're in today. So, please, let's adopt this and let the agony pass, you've probably been past these people following the session, everyone's asking how you're going to vote, what you're going to do today for us to survive. So I don't think we have much choice, an emergency procedure and the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11747	Discussion, Šefik Džaferović, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11748	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no law that can cover all possible situations in life, and neither does the Rules of Procedure on the work of a House that can cover all possible situations. It is true that we are now discussing the urgency of the procedure and that after deciding that it is an emergency procedure we are opening a debate on the very essence of the law. But it's also true that we put all the votes at the end of the session. And tonight, when we decide and vote in one chain on all points, we're going to get into a situation where we have a debate on this subject. That is why it is the College, because this is one thing that needs to be arranged by the Rules of Procedure, or this should be changed or the vote on urgency should be settled immediately after the debate, and not left for the end of the session. And let us conduct this session, making sure, therefore, that no representative is damaged in his statements, and in his demands, and in his rights. The MP has the right to ask the parliamentary question orally for two minutes. After the answer, in front of the cameras, there are two minutes, so it says in the Rules of Procedure, to comment. And when he asks a written question and gets an answer, it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure how long the answer or comment takes. It would make sense to last two minutes as well as when it's oral, but it doesn't say. Let us run it. That's why we're here. And I think this College is very serious and very responsible, it's unrelated that I'm sitting, uh, or sitting Mr. Bosić or Mrs. Krišto in that College. You have the right to pause, ask whenever you want. The public monitors what we do and pictures each of us precisely. And you know exactly when pause is a product of abuse and when pause is a product of need. I'm asking you to take breaks, clubs, when you really need breaks, not make problems. Excuse me, in the context of this discussion, which I am entitled to, I was talking about the Rules of Procedure and about the many calls expressed at the expense of the College. 72 About the very essence, I think we need to accept emergency procedures, and I think we need to vote for this bill, and we need to allow the emitters to function. During that time, the Board of Systems needs to design a model and then depending on the model, we will see if only the executive levels of government from the level of state and entity will be needed, or if there is a need to amend the Law. In this situation it is necessary to obtain this Law, that the tax which has been charged so far has in the Law cover to be continued to be charged. That's why he's urgent, and I'm calling you, I'm not going to answer for the discussion when it comes to the essence of the law if it gets an emergency procedure, that we vote for an emergency procedure and that we vote for the law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11749	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-36/15, of 28.12.2015. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 23rd session of the House, held on 12.01.2016. BiH's Joint Defence and Security Commission delivered on 29.02.2016. The bill's proposal report. There were no amendments to the draft law. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-37/15, of 16/02.2016. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11755	It wouldn't be right if we didn't say a word about a question like this. So, I think there are few institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that might boast that they have fully justified their existence. And I think there are few who can be argued that what they raised their hands for, since it was quite exotic, that the military commissioner's institution, which only Germany has, is to form us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I think now, and quite responsibly say, it seems to me that, in addition to being still a poor state of power at the Ministry of Defense, I'm pretty sure there's no military commissioner's institution to make it worse. That is why his, his reports need attention, before many of the recommendations he makes in his reports are repeated year by year. If this Parliament does not consider it necessary to pay attention to this, then the question, which I said earlier, that the military commissioner justified the establishment of such a significant institution, if the House of Representatives and the Joint Defence and Security Commission do not give adequate attention to its work. What did he do? He says he did 72 cases, 60 of which ended. That's a high percentage of execution. What institution has such a percentage of execution? Furthermore, what are the basic complaints, what is it that the military commissioner has so much to do with? Appeals of internal advertisements for the reception of candidates in the professional military service in the rank of sub-office. They are the group, when soldiers who are due to expire, which they would say, at the age of 35, with the help of someone from the Ministry of Defense, often past every criterion, come to a position to be appointed a sub-office. The second complaint refers to the position of professional persons involved in repair and maintenance operations at Doboj workshop. So it's amazing that people who deal in life-threatening conditions have not solved the key issues of their security on these matters. Third thing, complaints about putting up military faces. I think every one of these complaints tells themselves and it's clear to everyone what could be the cause. Appeals concerning the position of professional military personnel engaged for the purposes of the Search and Rescue Service, which have not been compensated for years. And finally, the non-transparentity of the procedures of sending professional military personnel to the mission of support for peace. It's more important to have someone warmly recommending us than to be a good soldier, so the work of that soldier so far to recommend him for peace missions. These are the terrible things he's talking about, but it's not the end and it's not the scariest. The most frightening question is the life and stay of soldiers in barracks. In what conditions do we have soldiers, what do these soldiers eat? Vegetables and fruits do not come to them; often they do not come to their destination. He says -- they rarely get flour and buy meals for their own money. If that's not alarming, I don't know, Mr. Bosić, I don't think that's so funny, that what I'm saying feels like, yeah, I can't believe it could be so funny to anyone. Then it's too much to talk about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11756	Please continue, no one is allowed here as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11757	So, I think this should be dealt with and given the task of the Ministry of Defence to create a plan to resolve what the military commissioner claims and to exactly create an action plan in terms of giving a solution to when he's thinking about solving certain things because they've been repeating themselves for years. It's not the first time he's said that an army in certain places doesn't get food. He can't, there's no one's right to run out of food because of bad planning at the Department of Defense. What do we do with a $270 million budget if we're not getting up to schedule it for these 75 things? So here I call on you, not only to support this report, but to give our trust to the military commissioner and to ask the House for the Ministry of Defence to develop an operational plan in which it intends to resolve what the remarks of the military commissioner in the 2015 report are.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11758	Ambassador Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11759	Thank you very much. I will not comment on the report, it was on the Commission for Defence and Security, you heard, it was unanimously adopted, I would just like to take a rare opportunity to fully agree with what my colleague Majkić said and especially in the assessment of the work of the Commissioner and what is in the Report, so full support for adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11760	Šefik Džaferović, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11761	I think Mrs. Vajzović is talking about rare opportunities, this really is a rare opportunity for me to agree with Mrs. Majkić when it comes to this report. So, I'm giving my support to the Parliamentary Military Commissioner's report and I think we were right when we set up this institution a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11762	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. We're going to the ninth point, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of PSBiH for 2015, issue: 01,02-50-19-469/16, dated 08.02.2016. The report was submitted in procedure 08.02.2016. The Joint Defence and Security Commission responsible for BiH delivered its opinion on 29.02.2016. The report was accepted and forwarded to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, there are, well, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11764	I will not talk about the Report except for one item, which this Parliament has been repeating for years, it is resolving the establishment of video surveillance at the border crossings that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet solved. It is amazing that the Council of Ministers does not meet the conclusions of this 76 Home. It is amazing that the Indirect Taxation Authority has also deafened the views of the House of Representatives, I think that the House of Nations is similar, and that this remains a fundamental problem at border crossings. This enables the uncontrollable entry of people, the inability to fight, to prove that complaints about the work of police officers are correct, and all of this calls into question that it is incredible that Parliament does not insist on doing so. In that part, I also suggested one conclusion – that the Council of Ministers should take all necessary measures to establish a single, functional video surveillance system over border crossings in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible. If this doesn't happen, it's going to be an increasingly frequent source of border conflict and an increasing number of problems with smuggled goods, smuggling people, because without this, the Border Police, or the Directorate for indirect taxation, can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11765	Thank you. Ambassador Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11766	Thank you very much. This time unfortunately, I cannot agree with what my colleague Majkić said, because I don't think it has anything to do with the committee whose report we adopt. And I am just surprised, although we supported this report on the Commission, I am surprised that the report is among the activities and the tour of the border crossings. So, I don't understand what the Commission, or the Board of Appeal, has to do with the border crossings, and in particular I don't have a very high opinion on the need, or at all, of the work of a committee like this, since a lot of institutions, police agencies, have their own internal control commissions that are coming to the public's complaints about the work of police agencies and people who are employed there. Of course there's no one to answer me, but here I had to share this question with you that I left undefined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11767	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11768	So, I'm sorry to have to tell my colleague. I'm not asking her to agree with me, she doesn't have to agree on anything, it's irrelevant, but she needs to know what the jurisdiction of the Board of Appeals is. We've established this committee as an independent body that should do what we're talking about. So don't do it the Committee out of its will and desire. To remind you that the Committee is in charge, it is the independent body of the Parliamentary Assembly responsible for receiving, recording, assessing and forwarding complaints on the actions of police officers, and informing the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So they did it well. And if that's not to be discussed, I don't know what to discuss. So you need to look first at what's someone's jurisdiction, and then comment. Thank you. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11769	Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11770	Of course, thank you very much, of course I agree that it's in the job description, and I know it very well, but then what should be done by the Directorate of Direct Taxation that controls the border crossings and terminals, what should be done then by the Border Police, they only receive complaints. On the side that perhaps the largest number of such complaints refers to crossing borders, violation of someone's rights, and that's all, everything else I don't think is the authority of such a committee. They'd take charge, here's two important institutions of the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11771	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. We are moving to the 10th point, but I would like to put to the vote the unification of the debate between the 10th and 15th points of the agenda, given that it is the reports of the House of Representatives committees. Please vote on unification. So we have 41-21 present for, versus 1, abstentioned 12. So we've adopted a decision to unite. Ad. Ten. — 15. Work reports from the 2015 House of Representatives Commission I'm opening a debate on points 10 to 15. Here you go. So, first it's a letter from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11773	I thank the chairman. I see that I was the only one against being united, because I don't think that we can really talk this unitedly about reports that, in my opinion, are very important, because they mirrored us all who act in committees and make our contribution by working on those commissions. I, therefore, and my suggestion that the 12th, 17th and 20th agenda should be taken off the agenda today because we representatives and advocates in this House of Representatives adopted one conclusion on 22nd of July. This was once referred to, not by this point, but to the adoption of conclusions and fellow Lovrinović, where he was right to adopt conclusions that we ourselves do not respect. So it is not clear to me and it is not an equal position for some committees to list members and members and their presence by name. And that, why does it matter? It is important, therefore, that when the initiative of the ladies, the distinguished colleague Diana Zelenika raised the question of how many MPs and advocates in individual committees, committees, ad hoc commissions, temporary commissions, and all other bodies that exist in this Paramentary Assembly were appointed to show that some MPs or some MPs were deployed in 20 places, and they could not be in 20 places at the same time, where they actually keep themselves, or take away the right to participate in those committees, although there are equally all three constituent nations and we could absolutely jump in, so to say, that we are changing some who cannot participate in the work of these committees. So, I am sorry that my colleagues and colleagues missed the reference, i.e. to read the conclusion that we adopted in 2015 and which should namely include our presence and our absence with the commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11774	Thank you. Discussion, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11775	Well, let me put it this way. The previous speaker is quite right, because we have never been ready to open and talk about how much we are really prepared to be engaged. An MP should work in the work body. This right here, it's a play, and what's real and efficient work it's supposed to be the working bodies of Parliament. That's how it's in all parliaments, that's how it's supposed to be here. And now that I've looked at what this paper is all about, let's say, the Constitutional Commission had 20 sessions and considered 89 points. Commission for Foreign Affairs 18 sessions and 156 points. Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs 7 sessions and 23 points. The Commission for Finance and Budget 17 sessions and 68 points, and the Commission for Gender Equality 5 sessions and 28 points. So you can see by the commissions how unequal we are. Some MPs, not even within these commissions, who have indeed rarely met, do not come, are not regular. It can't be, because does that mean we can all apply that principle, and what will this Parliament look like if we all make that principle that we can and don't have to come to meetings? So, please, we receive the same wages. If we're getting the same salary, we should have the same engagement. But that story can be opened once the MPs are ready to open that question. Apparently, they're not ready for him today.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11776	Ambassador Borislav Bojić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11777	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll do it very briefly. So, let me point out, when it comes to the report on the work of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to say that this report has indeed been done in a methodological way very well, from which it can be seen clearly what was done in the Commission itself. And, of course, I want to say that the very content of this Commission's work is really, and the spectrum of activity is very wide. When it comes to the percentage of those present on the Commission itself, it is indeed 70%, which is for each type of praise. What appears to be a smaller presence, it is in the thematic sessions, because simply because of the alignment of the term of thematic sessions with the sessions of the homes, there have been certain situations in which we could not simply predict it. Let's say a regional conference that was held at the same time as the House of Peoples meeting and when this Commission announces several, I say, tens of and more days, and more than a month of announcement of a certain kind of activity, if the colleges, the House of Peoples, first of all, this time happens with the House of Peoples, and last time it happened with the House of Peoples 79 to schedule that session at the same time, and to prevent MPs in the House of Peoples from attending in the work of these sessions, so that this activity is better coordinated for the simple reason why a maximum effort and effort of other colleagues is made, in order simply for this activity to pass in a valid manner. I just want to say that this kind of reporting and this kind of work content itself is something that, in my opinion, is quite, quite correct. And what my colleague Majkić said, as far as this Commission was concerned, she had, among other things, fifteen, it seems to me, a session, yes, had 70 agenda points, and the presence at these sessions was 70%, although it was happening that these thematic sessions were once scheduled at the time of the meeting of the homes. So I would ask the colleges of both Houses of Parliament to simply take care of it, when more than a month or more than two months in advance, to announce a certain activity, that these types of terms are not taken, or that we are told that we cannot hold that session, so simply the presence of MPs will be far greater and then there will be more quality work. Because there is no point, a large number of international organisations, NGOs attend these sessions, and for justifiable reasons, MPs cannot attend, so there is the impression that some people will not attend these sessions. On the contrary, there is an interest in working in this Commission, but it simply seems to me, I want to point only to this detail, better coordination in terms of allowing these sessions to be scheduled properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11778	Thank you. Correction of the false quote, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11779	Well, I wouldn't say that it's some kind of replica, but the Honorable Chairman of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, whose member I am, when I say 70%, is true that we are 70% present, but these reports just when you look at the names listed you will see that they are always the same people. So it's not disputed to have 70%, but always the same people respond to sessions and always the same people are there to start activities and bring out the activities of thematic sessions. And it's not true in all cases that it's matched that some would attend, but they were at the House of Peoples, or they were, it's true that they were in Strazubur, it's true that they were in the Council of Europe, it's true that they were in Brussels, it's true, and these people are always the same people who are delegated to go somewhere outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. The point is that when Members, MPs, MPs, and MPs are given their names, and when I get an answer from the international sector I'm waiting for, the international bilateral relations sector, which I've been waiting for for half a year, that's where I'm going to see who's active outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, because of the diaries, because of this or that, and who's active in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And by opening our website, if someone opened it, and when you see it by name, to open up a representative or representative, they write to you – the activities, nothing is introduced. Which means, that the public's impression can be that we're doing nothing here, except that we're sitting on the agenda like this, that there's no initiative and these reports, I don't know what we'd be talking about, that we're sitting here, and the activities that we're doing in our parliamentary bodies or commissions are not listed, and there are very important thematic sessions that we're organizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11780	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11781	I just wanted to warn you that we put the dots together by the 15th and not by 22nd. So, we are not having a debate on the joint committees now, but on the House of Representatives' committees, and then we will discuss them at the next point. It's just, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11782	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11783	You're absolutely right, colleague Novaković. Indeed, I apologize, because I thought that all commissions, not simply looking, were put on the agenda to consider, and for these reasons probably also the colleague did not mention this commission, so it is true. And what my colleague Maja said, there are these elements, but all in all, what's said about the percentages, the percentages are what they are, so we didn't give any false information. I didn't even want to justify anyone who didn't attend the sessions for a variety of reasons, it wasn't my intention at all, but it was my intention to show you the way these activities were conducted. And I certainly call on my colleagues to take greater part in the work of committees, because it is simply a good way to do our jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11784	Thank you. Discussion, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11785	Well, for every commendation, here's this orderly approach in the report on the work of committees at the annual level, and certainly, here I am reporting as President of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, which my colleague Maja mentioned as, here we have not delivered a report on the presence of representatives and advocates. I responded immediately that the Secretary of the Commission shared this with the representatives for the reason that we also had an objection when setting out the Commission's work report, that this was not delivered to the Commission. It would certainly be very interesting to see why individual representatives and MPs do not attend committee meetings, because international activities are not in weeks when we have meetings of the House of Representatives, and before that, the commission, which are mainly a day or two earlier. Therefore, it seems to me that there is a certain degree of indiscipline among MPs who do not respond to calls and it is very difficult to have a quorum during the session. And I would ask my colleagues to really be more serious about joining, here's the work, not just of the commission, but of Parliament at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11786	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 81 I suggest we make a statement on the proposal to merge points 16 to 21. The debate, meaning unification to discuss points 16 to 21. Please vote. For 25, against no one, abstentioned 14. So we've adopted the unification of the debate. Ad 16. - 21. Reports from the Joint Committees of the House of Representatives for 2015 I'm opening a debate. The first is MP Nermina Kapetanović, a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11788	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the trail of the discussion of the esteemed Mr. Bojić, since it is now about the fact that we are talking about joint committees, I would like to say the following, very similar to what my colleague said. It happens, I primarily don't just blame the College on it, but the presidents of the committee, it happens that, when it comes to the session of human rights, there's been a number of times that despite the fact that the Commission was scheduled in time to have some other commissions maintain their findings at the time. This is how it will happen next week on Tuesday, despite the fact that the Honorable Chairman scheduled a session a month ago, a very serious session on the state of human rights in Mostar, 22 and 23, but it is now happening that the European Integration Commission has been moved, so from Thursday to Wednesday, which means that here are three delegates from the Bosniak people, two who are in the House of Peoples and I am obliged to attend the Commission for European Integration for a simple reason because I am part of the College, I am a second deputy, cannot attend a conference which I am very interested in. I'm very interested in the state of human rights, and I know that a very carefully prepared conference has been prepared. Therefore, I would also ask the chairman of the committee to have a little more flexibility and more co-operation and co-operation with the chairman of other committees. There is one more thing, as we know in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, very often ad hoc commissions are formed. It happened to me, not a small number of times, that the ad hoc commissions, which I, for example, attended with a respected colleague, Tadić, the chairman of the second House, were not, that we were prevented from, say, coming to the Commission for European Integrations because we had interviews, scheduled interviews with many candidates, with 19 candidates. You cannot leave that kind of interview if you chair such a working body and come to the meeting of the Commission. A surface observer when he looks at it on the side, then he'd say, yeah, a lot of absences aren't about the commission, here I'll personalize it, I don't have a complex of that kind. So, I think that, not only the College, but the presidents of all committees, should distinguish who is before the right priority and the right to cross over, who has previously scheduled the session, that's one. And there's paragraph two, disease conditions happen with the MPs, and there are justifiable and unwarranted absences. I think that when a sick person is physically prevented from attending a session, everyone has a right to health, and we can't prevent him from getting sick if he's sick and it's not the same as the lack of interest of an agent who doesn't care. 82 So I would ask, in a very awkward situation because of a conference that is Tuesday and Wednesday in Mostar, that such things don't happen to each other that we get into commissions. We should respect each other enough because there is no more or less important commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11789	Thank you. Discussion, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11790	Short, like this before I was. How were the joint committees doing? The Defence and Security Commission held 14 sessions and considered 102 points. But it is unusual to see the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, which had only four sessions and considered only 17 points. We often ask ourselves what is real and how justified this Commission is, but we never had the strength to finish the story of whether 4 commission sessions in a year can justify the existence of this Commission. Another amazing thing, for example, the Joint Commission for European Integration, held only 9 sessions and considered 44 points. Well, I can't understand that what is now the most powerful and most material comes on different grounds, that it was just, that it was less than what the Joint Commission on Defence and Security did, or, say, the Human Rights Commission. I think that something, it turns out something's wrong, something's wrong. The Commission for Administrative Affairs held 6 sessions but considered 107 points. So, I know they group and collect materials and then make a session and I know it's a great deal of work to the Administrative Commission. So, we have the Intelligence that was formed, only 01.07. was appointed chairman, but it was the Commission that was shown every time as the committee most rarely held. So this all shows who we are and where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11791	Thank you. The discussion, I apologize, Nikola Lovrinović, for correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11792	Yes, Mrs. Majkić is correcting the incorrect allegations, because the Commission in common for European integration only created all points, so I don't know if one of them sent us to the College? Everyone else, so according to the Rules of Procedure, and you should send us, so it doesn't send the College at all, but we create the points ourselves, we do, and I think we did, so if you went into the essence and the measure of what we did, you'd see how much we did and did. We have a delegation prepared besides that, so as special meetings, we have already round tables, sessions of the Parliamentary Forum, all done by the Committee. Read on the report, so not just meetings of the Committee. Do you understand me? So, we're almost, maybe one point that came from the College, all the rest worked the Commission using business opportunities to work and select points that were interesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11793	Thank you. Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, debate. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11794	And I'll do it very briefly. Namely, I'm just going to put one fact that was present during the previous period, and we're going to have it in the next period on the agenda of the Administrative Commission and we're going to solve it. In fact, we had a situation where the decisions of the Administrative Commission, or the rules adopted, were very often interpreted by the Joint Service in one way, I can say, both in a cataract and unacceptable way. So it happened to us that at one point it is interpreted that the MPs who come to Sarajevo are entitled to the fees only if they come to the meetings of the homes and meetings of the committees. It's like there's no parliamentary work both outside the commissions and home sessions. At the last session, we then found that this was not the case and that it did not say it in an act adopted by the Administrative Commission, but that the Joint Service interpreted it in some way, of course the opposite of the Act, and therefore we made one decision, or one conclusion that in the next few sessions all the acts that the Commission has taken once more review and that it is simply not allowed to allow officials to interpret the decision of the Administrative Commission in their own way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11795	I'm closing the act. We're going to point 22, Ad. 22. Special Report "Accessibility of Labour Spaces of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Legislative Authorities to Persons with Disabilities" – applicant: BiH's Human Rights Institution, issue: 01,02,03-12-501/16, dated 10.02.2016. The report was delivered in the procedure on 10.02.2016. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights to discuss the report. The competent Commission submitted its opinion on 15.03.2016. The Commission has proposed the adoption of the following conclusion: – It is asked by the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution to supplement the Special Report within 6 months so that the Final Report corresponds to the real state. I'm opening a debate. There are no applications for discussion. I'm closing point 22. We're going to the 23rd agenda, Ad. 23. Special Report on (non)respect for human rights and rights in the field of work in the company "Boksit“ Milići, with recommendations – applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, Act No: 03/6-37-471/16, since 09.02.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11798	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, a few sentences, I believe, are here when it comes to this item of the agenda and the Special Report delivered by the Ombudsman, so the activity that the Ombudsman has carried out itself points to disrespect, that is, respect for human rights, and from these facts in which the situation is established, I have shared my opinions and I have shared with you on the benches of a proposal for a conclusion that, in my opinion, should bring the House of Representatives for a simple reason to further strengthen what is stated in the Special Report itself. I therefore propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives call on the BiH District Prosecutor's Office in Eastern Sarajevo and the Ministry of the Interior to urgently take action in accordance with its responsibilities, and regarding the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the non-compliance, that is, respect for human rights in the field of work in the company "Boksit“ Milići, which found that there was a threat to safety, physical assault, violations of labour rights, which was observed by the Ombudsman, the use of a polygraph as a method of disciplining workers outside the Labour Act and other general rules governing the field of working relations, which is why its use can be seen as mobing. These, a prohibition of movement, observation and charges not laid down in the law of the prescribed procedures, restricting fundamental human rights. This kind of conclusion would further strengthen this attitude that the Ombudsman has made and I think that in this way a message would be sent and a certain message to everyone who in any way, and a violation of human rights when it comes to work and working conditions, is indeed an enormous number in BiH. A large number of those over whom human rights are being violated are not reported. Therefore, there is simply no confidence that any of the competent institutions can take any action, which would be in the interest above all of the achievement and protection of human rights, above all of the employees. Therefore, this kind of conclusion, in my view, would be an additional strengthening of the position expressed by the Ombudsman, and the House of Representatives would stand in the protection of human rights. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11799	Thank you. Discussion, Member of the Parliament of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11800	I thank the chairman. I'm glad we got the Ombudsman's report. I'd like to thank them for doing their job properly and properly. Unfortunately, they can't do as many clicks as negative things can happen in Milic and as many incidents covered by Mr Dukić's ability to do. After this report, we showed completely that we were absolutely right when this report was made. After this report, I don't know, it really is, but here I'd like you to at least make a public statement about it, we don't need a new report. Again, it's about the mobbing of workers, the violation of the Labour Act. On the site of Boxit 26.02.2016, an instruction was issued to all employees, who says – it is estimated that every employee would need 30% of their assets, i.e. financial fees to spend within the company, i.e. by taking certain goods and services, as was the case with me so far, to refuse my salary. The system we have at our disposal will allow for adequate construction and registration of traffic for each individual, either through a department store, motels, transport services, fuelling through business centres, construction services, transport services, etc. This system will apply from 1 March of this year. Each individual can spend more than 30% in the above-mentioned way. So, in the end, it is said that an electronic monitoring system will be established as much as you spend as a worker, in order to take appropriate measures in time if there are problems in applying this instruction or the need to change something. Company president, Mr. Rajko Dukić. So, it would be as good for you as if we were to bring the instruction here now, that each of us must spend 30% of our salary on this restaurant down here and that it will be monitored. That's terrible. And such pressures and such mobbing are exposed to these people. I must also say that the Republika Srpska MUP has reacted and noticed numerous irregularities in that factory, that is, the abuse of what is called security. And clearly here from the website of the Republika Srpska MUP, it is said that the security is performed by persons who are not accredited for such a thing, that they do not have the right to carry weapons outside the gate and to carry, that persons who are currently using guns used in security places have not passed checks under the Arms and Ammunition Act. At security places, it has been found that three persons performing security tasks do not have adequate legitimacy, etc. There was a weapon found that couldn't be owned. Unfortunately, we haven't yet, and the M.E.P. means that all of this is being removed, we don't have feedback whether it's been removed or not. I don't know why my colleagues aren't answering, maybe they're scared. Here's what I have to say, and this is discrimination, the kind of pressure, I got a lawsuit on 50,000 marks. Mr. Dukić asks me, and the complaint says, it requires this because, beyond the agenda of our session, I have raised this issue and the redundancy of the fact that there was no information in the working material for the House of Representatives' meeting about human rights violations in the company "Boksit“ by its management, or the president of the company. This means that the defendant, on her own, has raised this issue for personal reasons. Imagine what I was doing with my MP job, and he says because I started all this, carrying out and passing these, so there's a stenogram, what I was saying at the session, carrying out and passing this news with published photos of the defendant, the first prosecutor and the second prosecutor, and the second prosecutor puts "Boksit“ in a difficult position, from the point of view of security and especially at this time when terrorist attacks happen everywhere in the world. I really don't know how the Ombudsmans did what they could. I urge you to, clearly, there are violations, it is clear that there is a lack of respect for the law, in which way one local rapist returns into the frameworks of the law and makes him respect the law, none of us as an individual can do so. I can do this exclusively to the institutions, and therefore I urge you to support the conclusion proposed by my distinguished colleague Bojić, because the institutions are the only ones who can stand by the behavior of any individual. Thank you. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11801	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. We're moving to agenda 24, Ad. 24. Letter from the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, Act No 01-16-1-227/16, dated 18.01.2016. The BiH institutions' audit office delivered a letter to the House College on 18 January 2016. The college appointed the Finance and Budget Commission as responsible for its consideration. The Commission took note of the letter and adopted conclusions proposed by the House. The conclusions read as follows: 1. The institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are obliged to ensure that those regulations do not jeopardise the functional, organisational and financial independence of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to deal with the issue of accommodation of the BiH institutions in a priority and permanent manner. I'm opening a debate. MP Dušanka Majkić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11803	Well, I have to admit that for the last 10 years, we've recently had 10 years since the Law on the Audit of Institutions and the Office for Revision was adopted, there's never been an explicit letter required to protect the independence of the Office for the Audition of Executive Vlad. It's a serious thing, and if you've paid attention to the media have a lot of texts devoted to it. In a country in which the audit is said to have threatened hers, if her independence had been compromised, parliament would have to deal with it. As the Finance and Budget Committee, we discussed this, we also talked to the Office for Audition, and then I looked at the Law itself. So let's say, what they are guaranteed by the Lim and Mexican Declaration as international standards, they guarantee functional, organisational and financial independence. And then when I was looking for the team where it is, where it is and where it is, is that how the audit claims, I saw that Article 4. The law on audits as a lex specialis of the law states that the Office for Auditing the performance of its duties and the exercise of jurisdiction under this Act is independent and is not subject to the management or control of any other person or institution unless otherwise regulated by the Law. So absolute independence. The second thing, in Article 5, says the Office for Audit, is preparing a draft of its annual budget and delivering it to the Parliamentary Commission for approval. The finance ministry doesn't have a single letter, not a single number to change. So, the authority for the budget of the audit office is exclusively on the commission which, certainly as the first partner of the audit, will always find understanding to meet that kind of financial independence. Finally, an organisation member of the 20th Law also says that the Office for Audit can set up regional offices where their existence is economically justified and that the general auditor 87 determines the organization of the Office and adopts internal regulations, procedures and regulates mutual relations between it and the deputy auditor. So we ask ourselves, what's the problem? What is the problem is that the Law on Payments and Efforts in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the recent sublegal acts of the Council of Ministers, has been delegated by the Law on Audit. So that's three regulations, a representation rule, a vehicle procurement rule and, I think, a phone rule. Those three regulations included the Office of Audit, although they had no right to do so. It is therefore an obligation for Parliament to exclude, in this respect, the Office for Audit from the application under these Rules. And that means that it is justified, and in that sense I have a conclusion that says: – That the House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to amend the Regulation on the use of the telephone, the Regulation on conditions of purchase and the way in which official vehicles are used in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Regulation on the use of the means of representation and exemptions from the application of these regulations of the Office for the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thus would they preserve the portion of the independence which they speak of. However, they also say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country that has not introduced an audit institution in its constitution in respect of many other countries, but I believe that, as most people believe, the issue of the Constitution in this country is much more complex, it cannot be easily opened, so this demand will probably wait for better times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11804	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11805	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So today, I've spoken a little bit of other points on this subject, and what my colleague Dušanka would say, Nikola, is that everything in your law is answered. You have all read articles other than Article 3 which state what the objectives of the revision are. I, in fact, referred to a report on the impact of August last year, which discussed the application of the Law on Access to Public Information. As far as I understand the revision, I've been looking for answers, that's what was on, the College that answered me, so, that's nothing in particular, I don't think the revision can do that kind of thing, so it's not in charge of what I think it is, so no one has denied me in any of the answers. The audit answered me what I expected, because they were working on the articles they referred to, the objectives of the Office of Zeus are exclusively, therefore, monitoring the spending of public funds, transparency, legality, etc. In that report in August that I saw, then there was an old assembly of audits, and then I was saying that they didn't actually mention a single figure, nothing in connection with spending money, but entered into an analysis of the application of the Law on Access to Public Information. I've heard of it, though I can't support it at this point, but I'm going to keep an eye on the next impact review, so other institutions have auditors acting, for example, in..., but I'm saying I don't support it right now with nothing, says what kind of report you're sending, says, up in Brussels? I don't think it's an audit job. So, the revision was formed to monitor what was done with public money, what was transparency, the legality of everything and everything that was related to it, and not to, therefore, analyse legal solutions, but from the corner of spending funds. Therefore, I am going back to the objectives of Article 3. The law on audits. 88 So I think that this debate of mine, hopefully, will come to the ears of these people in the audit, that really, in accordance with Article 3, they behave when they work, and the other articles when it comes to impact review, not to enter an area that does not concern them, and of course I support their work.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11806	We don't have any more logs. We're going to the 25th point of the agenda, Ad. 25. Consideration of Parliament's Damir Arnaut initiative, issue: 01-50-1-441/16, dated 08.02.2016. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible submitted its opinion on the initiative on 15.03.2016. The Commission adopted this initiative and forwarded it further to the procedure. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Damir Arnaut, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11808	Thank you. So, this initiative is a follow-up to the proposal for a conclusion that I proposed at last session of the House of Representatives, which was adopted and which obliged the Central Election Commission of BiH to provide information on the possibilities of testing the pilot, i.e. the Pilot of the Advanced Technologies Project in the 2016 election process in the local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so E technologies, electronic technologies. The Central Election Commission has delivered excellent quality information within 20 days, and I really thank them deeply for that, and in this information they welcomed this House of Representatives initiative. They also delivered a thank-you note to all members of the House of Representatives, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly, who attended their presentation on the use of advanced technologies in the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also in this Information, the Central Election Commission has made it clear that these projects are being implemented on the initiative of the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Embassy of Western countries already using advanced technologies, i.e. electronic technologies in the electoral process. There have already been a lot of words in the last session on all the advantages of these technologies, and I don't think there should really be an overexplaining which are all of these advantages, just to note that only the basic technical staff at the polling stations would be needed, and the technology itself would, according to all the available data, be paid within 2 to 3 election cycles. The Central Election Commission here in this Information, which contains over 100 pages of extremely high quality prepared material, said that, given that local elections will be held of course during this year, given the deadlines necessary to respect when it comes to the 89th election call, which is 6 months before the election we need to know absolutely everything, that the Pilot project in these elections could only be conducted as a test of functionality and accuracy of equipment. And this is what my esteemed colleague, Prodanović, and I, discussed at the last session. So last session, we didn't know what the Central Election Commission was going to say about this issue, and that was exactly what my initiative was in last session of the House to ask the Central Election Commission what is possible and what is not. And that's exactly the answer we got from the Central Election Commission, so the project could be implemented as a test of functionality and accuracy of equipment, because everything else would require changes to the Electoral Law. So this conclusion that has been offered as a item of the agenda, i.e. as part of the agenda item, can be adopted and I call on all colleagues to adopt it, because it would then allow the Central Election Commission to carry out a test of functionality and accuracy of equipment. And I also call on my colleagues to adopt the conclusion that I have also proposed, which is shared here with MPs, and which is fully relying on the Central Election Commission's proposal, so that the Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes to set up an Interresor Working Group to analyse the situation and propose the modality of the introduction of new technologies into the electoral process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that it is necessary to make sure, in addition to the representatives of the institutions proposed by the Central Election Commission, that the Interresor Working Group also includes representatives of the BiH Ministry of Justice or the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and by the assessment of the Council of Ministers. Namely, there are two reasons. One is that the Central Election Commission has not, unfortunately, taken care of the national balance of ministry representatives, so it is necessary to include one of these two ministries. And according to the Council of Ministers, whether it's better to be the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, both are relevant, but in any case we can leave it to the Council of Ministers to decide. And this Interresor Working Group would then work to finally introduce these advanced technologies into the election process of Bosnia and Herzegovina in one of the next election cycles, preferably already in the 2018 general elections, given that all the remarks we have heard about the implementation of this project in these elections can be resolved without any dilemmas until 2018, including this financing issue, but again taking into account that voting committees are paid around 4.5 million marks each year. So it's just a fee for those members of the election boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11809	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11810	So there's one really interesting thing in which our colleague Damir Arnaut accounts for and estimates the amount of profit per thing. It would be really interesting to develop this mechanism of his, to see which mathematics contributes to that. But as a contribution to what he said to save is 4.5 million, I'm saying that it doesn't yet know what that system is going to look like, that it doesn't know whether it's just going to be to solve the part that applies to the polling site or the database, that the whole system, so flat and undefined, is estimated at over 20 million marks, that its lifetime is just two to four electoral processes. After that, everything is thrown away and new comes. All of this includes the costs of those who come, engineers who maintain the system. Imagine when 5,300 polling stations boil and when that system starts to work and when mistakes begin to be born after each other, what kind of boom it must be. The fact that this is to be solved, but it cannot, Mr. Arnaut, be as you say within 30 days. Don't put pressure on the Central 90 Election Commission, it needs to come up with a good solution, a reliable solution, a cheaper solution, or the cheapest solution. This is quite irresponsible, this is populist. Please, we want to do it, why would the Nijemac, why would the Nijemac still vote on foot? But they decided to get the data into the database as soon as possible. What's our population like? How's he gonna treat a pen? Here's an expert who said right away an electronic pen, please get two and maybe three, and one is 800 marks. So I'm just saying some of the elements that, respecting good intentions, but it's a good intention to accomplish as well as it can. So, you should leave the Central Election Commission to do its job, and then make a decision. And finally, here in the proposed body that needs to take care of it, there's not a single man who's an informer. These are all lawyers, economists, do you think they'll make a decision about what kind of system it should be?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11811	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11812	I thank the chairman. It refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Majkić. So, you've obviously exposed as if I'm here to propose amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law that introduce both the system and determine the budget, etc. So I don't know what's controversial. You said – leave the Central Election Commission to do its job. And I'm doing it with this proposal right now because I've rewritten the proposal from the Central Election Commission. That's their proposal for a conclusion. So, if you've read it, I don't know if you've had a chance to read it because it's really extensive material from the Central Election Commission, and then they here say they're proposing to form an Interresor Working Group that will be in charge of analysing the situation and proposing the modality of introducing new technologies in the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that task force there would be three representatives of the Central Election Commission, which, of course, would be two representatives, according to their proposal, from the IDDEEA, these are the informers you were talking about. Well, I guess I.D.E.A. would put those IT guys on, but I don't know if we have any information agencies now, so let's put it on, I think. So there would be two from IDDEEA, and then they suggest one from the Ministry of Security, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. And that all makes sense, and I'm just saying on this proposal to add both the representative or the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry, at least I think it's crucial just for the reason that you touched it too, and that's how much it's going to cost.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11813	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11814	I know, but they need to give us an assessment. And if I had now offered here a bill of law that we would have decided you would have found those objections, since I don't have the expertise to suggest it. And that is why I propose that an Interresor Working Group be formed where people from all possible institutions that have the necessary expertise in different areas of this problem would propose it to all of us. 91 And let me make it simple again, so it's not just overlaying, it's cheating. the conclusion of the Central Election Commission. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11815	Ambassador Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11816	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Discussing this problem can lead us in one direction or another, however, the fact is that in the whole world it is going towards something called faster data processing and reducing the possibility of doubting processes, not just electoral ones. Whether it's more expensive or cheaper, it looks about like that fear of advanced technologies. I'm sure it'll be cheaper. There's no dilemma anymore. You have something that we've introduced as a process of control, fiscalization. It's basically everything we have for you except good and quality software support. And the most expensive thing about it is software. I also took the opportunity to speak to some members of the CEC personally. And they say they are able to already enter for these elections, which follow us, but not as a whole, of course, but as the first, as showing in a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in one, the second entity and the Brcko District, into one number of polling stations. Why be livin', why run away from it? On the contrary, it's not just a reduction in costs through those present, it's also a reduction in budget cuts for political parties, so everyone pays observers, you know, everybody knows that, because they're also cost observers. It's not just the cost of those sitting there. So those who are called security of order and peace are paid. Let's not forget that intensity is, and we tend to go towards the EU, the intensity that a man from his own home, from his personal computer, can do his civic duty. Where electronic systems have been introduced, people's exit rates or voting have increased unmistakably. Is that Damir you didn't mention it? So you had even in those states that are mega-state, but the India you mention, but I'm going to come to the American elections now, the part where they were introduced, in the election cycle when Obama was elected, in countries where the electronic voting system was introduced, increased the level of the voting body by more than 40%. Then why not go towards something that will give results and make us less suspicious, because we are all burdened by the team to come up with a fake in the election. For example, a very, very mature example, and the Central Election Commission doesn't appreciate when you make such an observation, my family numbers 10 members, 10 seniors who vote, it's terribly large, it's not my personal. That's how many of us are alive in the world, and we're gone, and they write about us like we're Chinese. So there's a total of 10 of us in the world who vote. We all vote in one of the polling stations. You know how many votes I got in that polling post? One. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, please, no, no, very directly speaking this, it's very important that I say this. And they say no fakes. So that's the Black Summit here in Sarajevo, we all voted in one polling place, my children, my wife, my mother, his brother, his wife, his children and one vote. Now tell me, who stole these nine? Who stole these nine? It's very important. Now that's our current electoral system, the one we have today. Why should we doubt, why not introduce and why not go towards something that will allow the citizen to no longer doubt. So, I support and say once again 92 – after talking to individual members of the CEC, they argue that these elections can be partially implemented by the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11818	Thank you. Senad Šepić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11819	So here I am without some broad explanations. I think this initiative should be supported and I think we should open up and get into this process. It is necessary to prepare our institutions, political parties, the general political system in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be more open, more transparent, more fair. We know what Zaim is talking about, someone would joke and say maybe they know these zaime of yours, well they know, so that's the result in the end, but I think there's a problem and we know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, really, those who oppose this kind of transparent fair approach don't have the purest intentions. So I really, here I want to invite all of us to support this, this is the first step and this is just, as I would say, a framework initiative, to support this approach. When we read the reports of the held elections, then you will see that the biggest objections that can be found there are just about this area of which counterpart Damir Arnaut is talking, in which we generally speak when it comes to this electoral, as I would say, process. So we need to restore that transparency, voter confidence in the democratic system. You have a general wing today that says that people vote for one, and then in the system, they're all someone else. And political parties, there also need to be much more open and democratisation and be fairer, be fairer. But once we've created a system and a mechanism in which we can trust this process, then we'll have the opportunity to move faster, more concrete, and more honestly as a society. So, I, here, once again, invite all of us to support this initiative at this first stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11820	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. We're moving to the 26th agenda, Ad. 26. Consideration of Parliament's Damir Arnaut initiative, issue: 01-50-1-442/16, dated 08.02.2016. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible submitted its opinion on the initiative on 15.03.2016. The Commission adopted this initiative and forwarded it further to the procedure. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Damir Arnaut. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11822	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it's the Electoral Law again, because this time it's a problem, that's the subject of gender equality. We now, I think we all know, we have an Electoral Law that says it is necessary that each candidate list for each level of government contains at least 40% of the members of the less represented sex, and then the electoral law further specify that the numbering should, when it comes to the first 8 places, contain at least 2 members or members of the less represented sex in the first two places, at least one in the first two places, and at least two in the first five places and at least three in the first eight places. And then it goes on in its own order, with no time to be less than 40%. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the, should be said openly, one of the leaders in Europe when it comes to it. However, we do not have, unfortunately, it is not seen, it is not projected to an election result, or it is not projected to a sufficient extent. So we're still not even close to that ideal target of 40 percent less represented sex in the legislative bodies. And everywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of the level of government, regardless of entity, canton, etc., representation has been spinning around 20% for years. In order to achieve this 40% target, it is obvious that 40% of the representation in the legislative bodies, not just on the lists, we obviously need to do something about the election process itself. And for this reason, the proposal is that each candidate list, i.e. to assign an Interresor Working Group to consider the possibility of including the following or similar provisions, and the next or similar provisions are here in the material that you have received, and they basically say – the first is that each candidate list has the same number of male and female candidates that are assigned alternately on the whole list. So if the holder of the list of women, the other on the list should be male, etc., and vice versa, of course. And then the following provisions also say that if someone leaves the mandate to replace himself with a less represented person in that given legislative body. This is not a matter again, and I really want to be absolutely clear on this issue, so this is not about amendments to the election law, or the amendment to the election law, this is about asking the Interresor Working Group to consider including such or similar provisions in the planned amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. I think it is particularly important to send the Interresor Working Group a message that it should go forward compared to what Bosnia and Herzegovina now has, not backwards. Because if yesterday or the day before yesterday on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I was well aware of the esteemed colleague of Prodanović, who is in this Interresor Working Group, some sort of arrangement has been reached to go backwards. So it was achieved, if I understood correctly, again I say some kind of agreement to remain 40% representation on the lists, but that the only obligation when it comes to numbering is to have one less sex person in the first three places. So that's worse than what we have now. Because now we have an obligation to have at least one less sex person in the first two places, and then we go beyond two out of five, three out of eight, etc. But we're staying here, right, in just those first three places, so it's absolutely one big step back, and I don't think it's wise for Bosnia and Herzegovina to go backwards when it comes to gender equality, but to move forward. And I don't really see what's so controversial about the Interressor Working Group suggesting that we consider these possibilities as well. And now I'm underlining again, so we need to make the difference between the amendment and the addition of the Election Law, because then it would be done in a completely different way, not to mention examples, not to mention these or similar ones, but it would be a decadent statement of what is required in the Amendment and Supplement proposal. Here we only ask the Interresor Working Group to consider these or similar provisions and to inform the House of Representatives. Thank you. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11823	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11824	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. So, I didn't mean to answer for the word, I'm a member of the Interresor Working Group, we got these suggestions there, we discussed, I think you and your colleagues are familiar with the position, and of course, here's the Dom will decide how to decide, but the correction is about a statement from a respected colleague that we went into worse shape than we had. The current position is at least a woman represented in positions one or two, so then at least five or two, eight or three, eleven or four, and so in turn, 14, etc., all by number 3, so that's the smallest representation. The existing solution allowed each political party, regardless of the work of the Interresor Working Group, to have 50:50% representation on the lists. Here, I ask all of us – in which political party was there a female male, female male, female male? Here's what I'm asking. Even the other way around. There could have been a woman 59% or 60% on the lists and men being less represented... with 40% on the lists. It's an existing law that allows, it's a law. And the correction was that, according to future solutions, we'll see, I guess on Tuesday, we'll finally end it, in the first three, after the next solution, the first three will be just one less sex represented. So I ask you, how is it possible, if the list contains three, to make a list except for one half to be two and the other half to be one half? Well, then, it can't be claimed that with that solution it's going towards worse. There's still the possibility that a woman would be a bearer of the list, that she'd be a male second, so a woman would be a third, etc., and d. Al, and so two-half if you had a three-named, it couldn't be any different than two-and-one, no different. How about a one-and-a-half? He can't. And I'm not saying right now, I'm not saying that three of them are two men, so they can be two women and one man.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11825	Well, here's where we've got the wrong quote. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11826	Thank you. Dear colleague Rančić, when you're looking for examples, Mr. Rančić, which list contains male-wife, male-wife, here's to ask you what list contains three candidates? Find me an example of a list of only three candidates. Very difficult. And you'll find examples of a list where a man-woman, male-woman or vice versa at SBB, we had these examples. But that's not the point. So, every time, but every time you talk about an advanced initiative, there's someone who's gonna say, so there's nothing stopping you from doing it. Here, as soon as Mr. Novaković is finished, I'll continue. So, every time someone always finds out what's stopping you from doing it, nothing prevents us, and then every time someone else finds it and says, we can't do it in a partial way, we have to do it systemically. This is exactly the system, not that any party is allowed to do so, or, I don't know, when it comes to "white bread" it says – that you don't end the mandate and then refuse "white bread". Well, I guess the point is that these things are systemically solved and that all the rules apply, that all the rules are the same for everyone. So, here is no solution, and so far, it has not been a solution for any party to be left to have 40% represented on its lists, but all parties are obliged to do so and the CEC has rejected lists that did not meet that condition. We don't introduce anything new here when the principle is in 95, here we just increase it from 40 now to 50% and introduce that change system. And the worst thing would be to go backwards, because the current solution, and that's a fact, requires at least one less person in the first two places, so two people in the first five places, and three in the first eight, and here we go backwards. I mean, it's a fact, regardless of some possibility of imaginary lists of only three candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11827	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11828	This now seems like some kind of justification to me, but there are lists available on the CEC's pages and sir look at them and you'll see what a political party is, and how it went towards women, and how they are structured there, set up. So you don't need to generalize but you should say we didn't, if you wanted to say it, we didn't have, the SDA didn't have 50-50, but don't say it for the others, but you're saying it for yourself. Because I belong to a political party that had more women than men on the list. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't know how it goes, voted people, but I'm just saying you had more women. The way to solve things differently, but when it comes to talking about the Electoral Law, this is about something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11830	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11831	This is a kind of replica to an esteemed colleague from the SDA, who has prevented who and how to create lists to be women, or less represented and sex to be more representative. Here we see the SDA of a total of 10 seats in this House one woman. The highest mandate was given to the SDA, there are at least women elected in parliamentary parliaments, at least they are delegated to any function within the SDA and within public functions. What I mean is, no one is defending anyone, but the fact is that we live in a society that is not democratic but with a certain degree of democracy, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have political leaders and we have leadership in political parties that are male leadership, women are very little represented, and if they are represented, their voice is very rarely heard. Which party had it, I answered although Isam wanted to pick up, but just when I see parties that don't have any women in their club or have one, it's time for us to call from the DF that has three wives, so I believe that my colleagues will also come forward because of what we had on the Committee on Gender Equality and the like. 96 So, when you want and pursue a democratic society, then you should consider and when you are talking about quotas or lifting quotas and setting up certain criteria, I don't know what the criteria would be set, maybe in 100 years when we become a democratic society, now we're not a democratic society, and now in Bosnia and Herzegovina there's a male policy being conducted, leadership is a man, and therefore we need it legally, and you, as someone who tends to democracy, as male colleagues in this House, should support any kind of promotion of legal provisions that would allow equal treatment of men and women and all others in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11832	Okay, I'd just like to point out that the chairman's wife, the chairman of this House, is not all the leadership in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a man. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11833	Thank you very much. Here, and I won't answer again. So my correction was supposed to be from a colleague of Arnaut. That's what I referred to, and I said that if we had three people on the list and two half, it couldn't be divided by anything other than being two from one half, and the other half being one, whatever the combination is. Let's say two women and one man. Those three would be, I said that claim wasn't true. However, we moved on, and my colleague asked me if the lists of three candidates were possible. Yes, my colleague, let's say independent candidates, here come the local elections and look at all the lists, and you'll see how many of these will be for local elections. And of course, I agree, here with my colleague Backović, it's not about running, it's about passing and representing, and we need to get together with one process, one way. I was, of course, talking to the Commission about it, that's not the point of the agenda, so among other things, it's not to justify you, but I want to tell you, in one time, I've been pushing myself, here's to being one-one, one-one. And some other things I suggested, but what am I gonna do when we're 12 and our colleagues don't vote and it's not over? And what do I need here now? ...to be sorry, etc. I respect the procedures and attitudes and representation of the DF, and we're like close workers in the sense that we're in order, we even used to joke that we were saying that colleague Damir and your president are colleagues, your party president is the weaker sex in your party, we were joking, we know these facts. And here we expect, if Bog does, that you're giving us a lesson that in some time, I'm not up to it, but at some point very quickly a woman becomes president of the DF, I'll applaud you. There, I'm not against that representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11834	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11835	This is just a short, basically just like a small supplement. I'm getting the circumstances, Mrs. Majkić, I'm here and I'm sorry, of course, which isn't yet, and there'd be two women behind me by the number of votes, right, but there would be circumstances. But I would tell you to look at the structure of the other parliaments and what structure in these parliaments is from my political option, so you'll see that 97 is 50:50% in the Federal Parliament as an example, and so on, I don't want you to think like that. I'm sorry that it's like this, I'm telling you sorry, and I honestly think, because fifty-five things now say it's 56% of the women's population in Bosnia and Herzegovina, only if women support women they would rule this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11836	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11837	I thank the chairman. I find this interesting to hear men struggle to have more women, and women constantly less and less in politics. To be honest, we all know what it's like in our parties and beyond. I congratulate the DF, but this associated me with one thing, one two years ago, I was at the DNS Assembly, a last-declaration of the National Assembly, and they had four MPs, or three, and two MPs. I congratulated and said men here are weaker sexes. Mrs. Nada Tešanović from the SNSD was there and said – no, these men did not understand, will correct the error in the next elections. They fixed the mistake in the next election. So, colleagues don't need support here as long as there's gonna be women on the lists, they need support to get these women through. And come on, this proposal that Mr Arnaut made, I support it, but let's look for a solution both in this House and at all levels of government to be a little woman, because we still have to admit politics is a man's thing, women are still fighting for their equality, they don't have the resources that men have in politics, we don't even have the logistics that men have in politics, we have to be honest, we're just taking personal efforts to fight for this position, but let's help, if they are truly honest, to provide a higher percentage of women here, not on the lists, to sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11838	Thank you. Discussion, MP Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11839	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll say a few things very briefly about this initiative. First of all, I would like to say that this initiative is welcome in the period and at a time when we know that the Interressor Working Group is working on amendments to the Election Law, particularly welcome from a club that currently has no wife in its composition, so there is not one colleague and I will say one more thing, so from the club that was in the last session, when he had a wife as a member in his club, when she was only a member of her term of office, and she was the only woman in their club in the past meeting, when she expired her term just because she was using compensation, as she is now called, on the basis of the "white bread" which belonged to her after the end of the mandate and by the law that someone who had established before she was an MP in this House, so only that she used this law SBB has excluded her from the party. So, uh, I think this is their positive shift in understanding and understanding the situation and position of women in the election processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 98 The right intention of this Parliament whether we want, sincerely, to correct the situation in this domain will be demonstrated when we get a report from the Interresor Working Group that will, hopefully, deliver here its proposals for amendments to the Election Law. According to information, which could have come to us by now, I expect and I think there will be some proposals that will be, have regressive features compared to what is now in the Electoral Law. I'm not going to prejudge things, we're going to wait for those reports, these suggestions, and then we're going to make a statement, and according to these proposals from the Interresor Working Group, we're going to really show our sincere intention of whether we want these things to be fixed and improved. The Gender Equality Commission took the view at its meeting yesterday that it would be clearly and decadently determined according to the report of the Interresor Working Group and, of course, taken up the position that things as much as possible could be improved and brought to a better situation than they are today. In particular, when it comes to the proposed amendments here, which have been submitted to the initiative, as a woman, so I absolutely support the first proposal to amend the electoral law, which means that each other is a gender less represented, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina it is a woman, so to be represented on the lists. According to the fact itself, here someone has already said from previous conversators that over 50, or 54, or 56%, is the population of women in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and only according to that fact, we belong to that right. But I'm afraid there's no agreement in political parties for that either. And as for these other two proposals in the direction of amendments to the Electoral Law, I think these proposals as they are, uh, formalized, in order to reciprocate the number of votes of each candidate who, as we know, will remain open, so each candidate will receive personal votes. If this were to be done, then it would only be my personal thinking according to these proposals, if it were done as proposed and defined, then it would be brought, then we would satisfy some things just because someone less represented is sex, but on the other hand, the second question opens, so does anyone have the right to be sent to, say, the House of Representatives, and the candidate who has received significantly more votes than that person will be somewhere else and will not be in a position to get a mandate. So I think it's a question that opens up dilemmas. And once again I'm going to say, so our sincere and true intention will be shown once we get the Interresor Working Group report, then we'll all show the right face and say as parties and as individuals do we really want things to get better here. And the very fact that BiH's Election Law, I think this is now 19 or 20 changes as it changes, and it's been a long time since it's matured to get a refined text, or a brand-new text of the Electoral Law, tells him that it's working to improve this process and move some things from the position they currently have and the status that they have, but I'm afraid we're going rather slowly on the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11840	Thank you. Debate, MP Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11841	Thank you, Chairman. Well, really, here, as you can see, there aren't enough women, but we have a president of the gender equality commission, so here's what we're going to do... like this, a little joke. So, uh, it's really one problem. Secondly, the SBB, so in the Federal Parliament, this is the answer, there are 16 MPs in the Federal Parliament of 8 women, 50% of women think it's a good parameter for this 99 all. But it's not a subject of discussion, uh, discussion should go in this direction, if we want a society of equal odds, then we should give equal initial positions to both men and women. I'm not talking about women or men, so less gender. What's obvious is that in these elections we didn't have enough women. The very view of this Parliament shows that we were not enough, at least active enough for women to come into a position to decide. I will give examples at lower levels of government, so let's say some municipal committees, or municipal councils don't have any wives in their congregation. Let's just say, I think the Kakanj municipality is very interesting. So we haven't given women a chance, and this is an opportunity to give equal status to all those who want to participate in the elections. In particular, there is one thing that is very interesting here, that the same thing that we do in the legislative authority and in the executive government, so women are neglected by their status. I'm an example that this Council of Ministers, too, is there not enough women in its composition, or is not represented as much as the Law on Gender Equality predicted to have. Well, here, I'll say, I'll be self-critical, and this commission where I am, nine of us, nine of us, five of us are men, and four of us are women, and eventually the chairman is a man. I don't think that's true, either. It's not a real picture of all that. What I'm talking about, I think this is a good suggestion, that we should support it, and that this proposal would put us in a leadership position, if not in the environment, then, in a broader sense, then in the environment anyway. A good parameter for all of this can be Sweden leading a feminist policy, which out of 23 ministries has 12 women, 11 men, etc. Well, Ulof Palma himself was, as they say, killed because of the cold war and because of the feminist policy he was conducting. Here, I think so, and I think we should give full support to this law because it gives all of us and men and women the opportunity to come, is it, to those positions that we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11842	Senad Šepić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11843	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So this is really a good discussion, a legitimate topic, and I think that without us getting into some, uh, deeper analysis, we need to accept one of these approaches. I think that we as a state and as a society are mature enough that we can understand this and that we should be completely sensual to the less-represented sex. So, for starters, and this is not the initiative that we first hear today, we have from a lot of organizations that have spoken to us in the past, and for a reason and rightly addressed, I would like to have been in this, in the preparation of these materials, or this, I would say, the solutions that we will get from the Interresor Working Group, that they have already ended this issue in a way to ensure that both sexes are fully equal, and so for starters, I think that we should ensure this complete equality, and then discuss afterwards how we can essentially ensure that in the institutions we also recognize what we are talking about today. So we have so far had the opportunity to react and have now. Let's say the compensations, we could show on the compensations what we think of the less represented sex, each of us pretty much knows how he made moves and how he treated himself. And I have to tell you honestly that in the way we've used it so far, and in a large number of cases we've abused these compensations, I think that's the way to end them. If we're not going to show, let's say, the possibility of using them essentially for what they are and exist in 100 legal solutions, then those in a large number of cases, in this way, they don't make sense. Someone's going to do an analysis sometime, so you're going to see about who they're mostly rewarded by compensation and why they're doing it. Furthermore, the homes of the people, in the House of Nations, we also directly propose, we have much more opportunities and political powers to determine who will sit there. Let's say, in the Council of Ministers, here's a concrete proposal, let's say the SBB now has a chance to make one step, so let's say that through the next appointments at the Council of Ministers we get more ladies, we get more women. There's one, what's called, contribution. I'm just thinking loudly. So where we directly suggest, where we propose directly and where we make direct moves, I think that's where we need to show credibility. This is referred to firstly, therefore, the leaders and the tops of political parties, they are the ones who can show what they generally think of the less represented sex. So, I think we should show from that shit to the end that correctness and that, I'd say, human credibility. And for today, since we're talking about an initiative in this sense, I don't think we need to further spread a lot of this debate, we need to accept this approach, and then we need to look for modality behind it. I just mentioned some of the modes that we can solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11844	Thank you very much. Mirsad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11845	This would be a small replica to Mr. Šepić, for the simple reason that the SBB, I must say, has not been in power so far to fill that quota. And one thing here should be noted, when you said that, that since '97. until 2014, therefore, no woman was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and only two ministers were, and as I recall that the SDA was at that time, in power all the time. Therefore, and we see the number of women as much as represented in this section, this, now in the Parliamentary Assembly. So what we want, really these are pure intentions that women have the same status as men and that they have the same chance, to be a society of equal odds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11846	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11847	So I think that through the discussion, I was enough and self-critical, and I didn't want to be here at all today especially to praise anyone or to attack anyone. I just wanted to say that, when we're talking about wanting to take a step, when you have a good initiative or a good idea, accept it, so, then show it to the end that it is the one... and that in that sense you're willing to make a better step, let's say, than we did before. I'll take it with both hands and I think it's a good approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11848	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11849	Well, you see, so we've proposed this initiative, you take your step, so vote for it, and that'll be enough for this one. But where is the problem with your exposure to me, Mr. Šepić, that you're walking into that trap that I was just talking about, that everything is being resolved in part, that everything is being solved ad hoc, that is, every party is free to do something. And here we propose a system solution which will then oblige everyone to do so and then everyone entering the election will know, and especially the members of the smaller sex represented, where they are. And that's the whole point, so we're going in the direction of a system solution, and we're not going individually or collectively into those traps that every party is free to do whatever they want, because that's not the point. As for what Mr. Rančić had just, uh, spoken, coming back again, whether, on the list of possible three candidates. Well, you see, Mr. Rančić, since we're proposing 50% and alternating, it's not three of you, you have a problem with a list of one, one candidate, three, five, seven, nine, etc., you can't have 50% on any odd list. But what I keep repeating from the replica in replica is that this is, this is not a bill but this is an initiative by the Interresor Working Group to consider these or similar possibilities. And the Interresor Working Group, in which you are also free, and I am sure that you would remember first, then to install in the provision of another member of the BiH Election Law to stand – in the case of an odd number on the list, the principle will not apply to the last candidate on the list. So if we have a 50% principle, but if it's a odd list, or a list with an odd number of candidates, simply a member of the law says that the principle won't apply to the last candidate on that list. And then we solve the problem and one, and three, and five, and seven, and nine, and so on. So these are the technical things you're talking about, and what I'm talking about is the essential things and the systemic things. And just one more thing, if you'll excuse me, is that there is a constant question here of how to ensure that women pass, or that members of less-represented sex pass, are elected. That's exactly what this one is about, and that's what it's about to give them the opportunity to go through...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11850	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11851	adopt this, and as far as I understand you're introducing a principle in that Interresor Working Group of... [[cannot be heard due to an audible warning to the MP]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11852	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11853	I mean, it's a good thing that the promoter may no longer have a chance for some replicas anymore, then some people would just maybe turn away from supporting it. My first sentence was, so I invite you to support this approach, this is systemically... Then later, thinking a little bit about how we can specifically upgrade this, I also suggested that proposal, quite legitimately. So, of course, you, as we do, as a political party, have the right to ultimately determine which move we're going to take, but here, you have, as I would say, a momentary active possibility where you can end it like that... And yet you choose how you will react in that sense. Thank you. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11854	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11855	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues. I'd like to say to my colleague Arnaut, I think we had this proposal inside the Interresor Working Group, there's a Rules of Procedure that we're working on, we didn't have an agreement on it. The only possible way, I respect very much these... these proposals are very significant, but you have other suggestions, everyone's right about that. The only possible way to improve this, when it enters the procedure of amending and supplementing BiH's electoral law, then one or more MPs or MPs join together to propose it. If this gets support in terms of amending this amendment, the amendment to this part of the Electoral Act could be. This is how we're gonna lose without the need to argue, we didn't have the consent, we're wasting our time on it. I very much appreciate that, and I also have to say for the previous debate, we had no agreement in the previous... in terms of experimental, therefore new voting methods in the election process, because this leads to dilemma and the possibility of abuse. But right now I have to tell you I am not against either, nor the other, nor the experiment in this sense, but that it is carried out in a way that would be valid, respected, sustainable and that the public would be convinced, or people who decide that it is possible to introduce it into the electoral process of the new voting method. We're just here, I mean, all of this is of importance, it's impossible what you're saying right now. If you force the Election Act to assign the mandates to the number of personal votes won, I am talking about open lists, so it is impossible for you to skip someone who has 15 grand to give someone who has 9,000, who has 14.999, any such decision would be both constitutional and illegal, if you have established the way you assigned the mandate. It's possible otherwise to improve it, but right now I have to tell you, no one has disturbed the current model of open lists publicly. It's good if we talk like this, so in terms of translation into closed lists, no one has discussed it publicly, we've all had an emphasis, but officially no one has proposed an amendment on the ownership of the mandate to change the lists. Thank you. That's all I wanted to say. We're wasting our time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11856	Diana Zelenika, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11857	Thank you. As a cardiologist, I'd say that women are stronger sexes, because seven times fewer people suffer from heart disease and the cardiovascular system. So much for strength, but here we are less represented, so today is the topic of conversation. I want to say one thing, that we at the Committee on Gender Equality discussed this issue and even referred to the procedure, so we joined together, what five, four of us teamed up and sent the law procedure. However, although a woman who even wore a compensatory list must say one thing, and if I look at it like this party, so my party has 100% female representation, because I am one, this one, but I want to say that accordingly, here is a previous comment and comment by my colleague Marković, I think that the first part is satisfactory, so 50:50 absolutely support, I support that alternating order. However, for the sake of respect for both democracy and the electoral will of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not think that this second part is adequate because if someone gives up for any reason from their mandate to have a less represented sex, it would mean that maybe someone who has 15 thousand votes remains second, now they will not be able to get that mandate, and some lady who may have a hundred votes on the same list gets a mandate just because she is a woman. I think that second part, without 103, I say that I am a proponent of gender equality, I don't think that the second part is adequate and offensive and democratic and electoral rights of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we have discussed in this Committee. So we changed that part, and we kept the last part, and we didn't keep it even in the law that we passed in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11858	Safer Demirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11859	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'll try very briefly, since this discussion has led us in one direction where I feel it's not even close to this gender equality on election lists and during the elections. Here, I will take the opportunity to introduce you to me that I come from the Municipal Committee where the presidents of the Municipal Committee are, and that's the best Municipal Committee, not just my parties, but I'm free to say to all the parties in the state, women, I respect it, I listen to and respect those instructions that it gives me, that in the canton of four of our representatives there are women, in the Federation of Two, there is one woman. Now let me expand the story further, in the company where I work – "The Mine", out of five executive positions are two positions for women. So it's not that close to black. 50:50 I am not running away from it, I think it is acceptable for me, but as long as the lists of preferences are opened like this we will not have it, there will always be someone elected there. And to close the lists again, the most democratic thing we close in the election. I think it's the best thing our choices offer are open lists. There are these suggestions about compensation, but from that way. So I support this 50-50 discussion, but I think this system, where it wants to be applied, it allows it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11860	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 27, Ad. 27. Review of Mensure Beganović's parliamentary initiative, issue: 01-50-1-504/16, since 11.02.2016. The House College has appointed the Committee for Transport and Communications responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 15.03.2016. The commission supported this initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11862	I thank the chairman. I welcome all those present who are very durable, today we are really working very hard. 104 The initiative I have put forward actually refers to the duty or, is it, the task we are giving to the council, which we would have given to the Council of Ministers, if they support colleagues and colleagues, what I propose, that within 60 days consider and adopt a development policy... Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has already been prepared, and the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport has prepared this, and has therefore launched an initiative to develop a strategy for the development of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Information Society. Why did I keep that name? It was precisely because the previous Strategy, which was made in 2004, had the same name and ceased to be current in 2010. It was done with the help of the UNDP and contained some five economic, five areas such as e-instruction, e-Government, information-communication technologies and information-communication structures and e-legislatives. I can only thank the debaters at the point that, which I think was number 25, this is the first initiative of colleague Damir Arnaut, to consider and consider where we are at the moment when we are talking, among other things, about the electronic vote. So, as the current Development Strategy, which had previously been adopted, ceased to be, then, of course, whether entities and states had found themselves without any strategy in this area. And I can only say that it was logical that Republika Srpska, unfortunately the Federation did not, so it made two strategies that were in 2010, 2009 and '12. the years around adopted, such as the eGovernment Strategy, eHealth Development Strategy. I must admit that Republika Srpska has made a real effort in this period to make sure that, as it has succeeded in making these strategies, that legislation, in terms of legislation, has also circled in terms of institutional solution. So, let's say, when it comes to legislation in Republika Srpska, it is in force and the Law on electronic signatures and the Law on Electronic Documents has been passed. As regards the institutional solution, therefore, the Agency for the Information Society of Republika Srpska has been established which takes over the information it has, which is within its jurisdiction when it comes to, among other things, the electronic signature. I must say that there are several reasons why it is really necessary to consider this initiative and to support it, and we, as Parliament, are meeting in several situations where it can be concluded that a lack of stragija at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina leads to a very interesting situation when it comes to the balanced development of information technologies in the territory of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not entering into which entity has really done good things, which has done nothing, and let's say the Brcko District also did God know what. So let me remind you that at the session, the 23rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives was a discussion on the procurement of personal documents – a study of the case” which, according to the impact audit carried out, showed that in the past few years we spent hundreds of millions of marks and issued 1,700,000 personal documents, ID cards, which are electronic ID cards with an embedded chip, which is not even cheap actually made, and that the fact that these documents are currently documents that are a simple identification document with a picture. The whole issue is being raised, and the debate that was conducted in this House, and now it's going through the media, how much IDDEEA really needed to carry it out in such a way, how respected the law is, the procedure when it comes to public procurement of these documents. But at this point, it is not my primary goal to talk about it, it is my primary goal that we have found ourselves as a state in the position that we have spent money on one good alignment with European directives, while others, other solutions and other requirements that should have been equally developed and followed this one, we have not given them any importance. That's two things I want to point out. One is that if electronic ID cards really don't have the power they're meant to have, and that benefit that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to feel if we don't solve the issue of electronic signature, unless we solve the issue of electronic services and registers in public administration. So that's two things, that's two things you have to follow this document -- an electronic ID card.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11863	Time. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11864	I'm going to briefly add only two more reasons that I'd like to emphasise that the summit is very important. We are talking about electronic voting, about a pilot project and possibly in 2018 to introduce an electronic vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina. General literacy of ours, I will not talk about technical elements and nor will I talk about technical solutions that have been on offer and how much it costs, I will talk about something that requires time and not just money, which is the digital literacy of our citizens, the voting body of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last 20 years and general literacy has worse than it had before that period, and about digital not to talk. So this element really needs to be taken into account and that's something that's being solved through strategic documents. And the strategy of the development of the information society should also bring our voting body in 4 years, in 2, in 10 years, it doesn't matter, there are bodies that will know how to use all the services available, including the one called the electronic vote. And I would, in the end, not to forget, that it is very important that we are aware of the needs at the state level of development of strategies if we want to successfully apply to European funds, the European Development Bank funds that can enable us to make these disparities, this gap and differences that occur in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unbalanced development in entities, not follow the development of information technologies, not in neighbouring countries, and about Europe not to talk, we can solve if we really deal with making a strategic document that I, yes, kept this name that was before. I thank you. I'm here for the other clarifications.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11865	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11866	Thank you. He was directed to a respected colleague, Beganović. I have much greater confidence and as someone who is the initiator of this initiative on the introduction of an electronic vote, I have much greater confidence in the digital literacy of our people, as you have stated. And I don't think it's right to question it, I think it's a little bit of a... approach, especially when it comes from bodies like this. With... that I absolutely don't want to make any inappropriate comparisons, but still consider that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a far better situation than some parts of India where over 600 million people vote electronically in each election. So over 600 million people in India vote electronically in each of their choices. Over 150 million people in Brazil vote electronically in each of their elections. So these are two countries that have been using exclusively electronic technology for decades in electoral processes and then talking in a negative way about electronic illiteracy, I can't remember exactly how you said it, but in such a negative way about our people, I don't think it's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11867	Mensura Beganović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11868	I'm sorry, I'll just say two things. First, India is an informative world power to understand one another. So I wouldn't compare it. And secondly, digital literacy is something that 106 voting bodies really need if we think we have relevant results in the elections we're preparing for. I don't need to close our eyes, and believe me, I'm not at all... in the mood when it comes to it. I understand how hard it is for people, they buy cell phones today, they put in a couple hundred marks, and they memorize numbers. Our electoral body, which goes to elections, middle-aged people, third-aged people, those who don't go to elections are really digitally written, but they're lazy and asleep by noon. I'm sorry, this is a conversation between us.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11869	Dušanka Majkić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11870	Well, I'd like to tell my colleague that what she suggested is perfectly in the wrong place. So if something is not done at the Federation level, one cannot save the matter by transferring it to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It does not mean that the adopted law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be implemented when nothing is done down here. So, I must remind you that the policy of the development of society, the information society is fully in the jurisdiction of the entity, that you have seen that we have already done a lot of things and that there is still a lot of work on this chapter and that, you said yourself, that the Development Strategy has been adopted in 2004-2010 and based on this Strategy, the Council of Ministers has been working on the Information Society Act twice, but he simply could not get support because it was not Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction. So nothing's stopping you from sending your colleagues on a federal level that's good. It's bad that nothing on that plan has been done in the Federation. So it's really bad, but it's not impossible to leave that initiative behind. We can't support it because we can't finally get everything that's been done, and for years that's been done, to throw it away and wait for something new to be done at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we cannot support this initiative even though I am truly impressed and I expect you not to let this idea go away, but that you will continue through your colleagues to realize this idea by Parliament of the Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11871	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11872	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Not wanting to get into the controversy, just for a little while. The Federation government owns a software e-government, bought, paid. The government of Canton of Sarajevo owns a software of electronic governments, purchased, paid, installed and used. And so on. And that this should be arranged with you, I agree with you at all times. And yes, whether we want it or not, we're even in the environment the only country that doesn't have a state-level law that's related to the problem you've initiated. And I support you. Not whether it's literacy or illiteracy, but whether it's about how space is arranged.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11873	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11874	Here, I'd just like to give my colleague Dušanka a little encouragement. ... a necessary problem for everything that we say, regardless of what has been solved at some entity levels, tries to solve here, 107 as it is called, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as it is not necessarily a solution that we have everything on the state level. I think we should get out of that matrix a little bit. The constitution said. Stop is something that makes it possible for us to live better in that community. So I think we live at the time of integration. The whole world is integrated, the EU and they love these powers, each country, each of those 28 EU member states is so patriotic, loving their responsibilities, for example in the area of telecommunications. So they would like the money from the use of that mobile, as it is called, telephones, but they say, well, let's transfer it to the entire Union and let people, no matter where they come from, when they're on the phone, don't have that roming. Let's just say one example, that I'm not talking about a bunch of others, as it's called, jurisdiction. If something will help us to be as partial as entities, cantons and any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina live better then we should not run away from that solution, regardless of what is there, if it stands in the Dayton Agreement and in the jurisdiction that it is the jurisdiction of the entity anywhere, it does not appear to be the jurisdiction of both the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I support those who think a little wider about some integration. I think that's the general way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11875	Mensura Beganović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11876	Correction of the wrong quote to Mrs. Majkić. It's not about the law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's about the Strategy. The e-signature law was passed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but was never implemented because of other services that did not monitor the activities. So, the strategic document, whatever we call it, is something that we can only benefit from all of us, and no one should have any harm. And it should not by any chance be considered in this context that what Republika Srpska did should not be respected or rejected, not even a speech. All good things should be kept and, in some ways, reconciled activities to be uniform and, let me say, agreed in the common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11877	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I don't see any more reports. Moving to point 28, Ad. 28. Review of the representative initiative Maja Gasal Vražalica, issue: 01-50-1-537/16, since 12.02.2016. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 15.03.2016. The commission accepted the modified initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. The initiative now reads - The BiH Council of Ministers is urged to launch an initiative through the entity and canton governments that all, in accordance with their constitutional competences, access to the creation of a Regulation on accreditation for law, advantage and families of children and persons with disabilities in development, 108 disability, in order to implement obligations under the International Convention signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus become obliged to implement them. I'm opening a debate. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11879	I thank the chairman. So, from the attached documentation that you have all seen, and according to this initiative, the debate was also on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and my colleagues and colleagues have really contributed to modifying the initiative in the way you have just read it. So, I would just like to remind you that we are signatories, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of BiH and there we have had a lot of obligations and tasks which, unfortunately, we have not done as a signatories country and we are not at the beginning of doing them. Just because the documentation shows that the Council of Ministers once concluded in 2008 that it would work on the Strategy and that it would improve the position of people with disabilities, unfortunately there was nothing. The initiative came by organising a thematic session on the International Day of Children's Rights, where parents of children with special needs were invited, children with disabilities from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, they were parents, associations, where they contributed through their discussion and, in fact, to the representatives and MPs, who were present, opened their eyes with all the injustices and indifferences they had as parents of children, I would say special children, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, face daily. One of the problems at the conference is that there are no daily centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina, living centres that would allow parents to work, return to their jobs, especially mothers, because in most cases mothers such children remain single mothers because they are abandoned by this stronger sex that we were just talking about. Women are exposed to various multiple discrimination, from losing their jobs and staying with their children for 24 hours and offering them that kind of assistance and support because no support system has been established in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina all know what it's like to go to a doctor and wait 6 hours for that doctor to call you or just get an appointment, of course you have to wait several hours again in the waiting room to get that appointment, not to talk about checks, not to talk about mammographs, that gynological examinations, where these associations have even mentioned that mothers in the process are more, these children, suffering from breast cancer and sores of the womb precisely because they are not able to go to the pharmacist because they have no place to leave their child or their children. In order to remove or assist them in some way, I have initiated the creation of a regulation that would allow the Council of Ministers, respecting all constitutional powers from entities to cantons, to launch one initiative with the governments of entities, cantons, to create a regulation that would allow them to have advantages in all public institutions, from the ambulants to various counters, to have priority in the way that the RVIs also have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, respecting the RVIs and their right to use it. I believe that this way and by making this Regulation would be very helpful to these mothers, these parents, where, although they have no one to leave the child, they would probably find someone for a few hours to change them or to be with that child because they have no one to leave him, or to even take him with them, but in time or within a very short time to come and do everything that a normal man and a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina should do. Thank you. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11880	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 29, Ad. 29. Completion of the Annual Training and Training Plan of Members and Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2016 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1,03/1a-03-339-1/15, from 19.02.2016. The BiH Joint Commission for Defence and Security has submitted the Supplement to the Annual Training and Training Plan of Members and Units of the Armed Forces abroad for 2016 and the Opinion on the Completion of the Annual Plan 29.02.2016. The commission unanimously took note of the complementarity and referred to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 30, Ad. 30. Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking for the appointment of deputy chief auditor of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, materials of the Interim Joint Committee of both homes of the PSBiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Deputy Chief Auditor of the Office of the BiH Institutions, issue: 01,02-34-2-551/16, dated 15.02.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11883	Well, I'm sorry that the rapporteur of this commission didn't report, I see Mr Sarajlić, who is not present. I don't know if anyone will, after I've been exposed, answer me, perhaps or adequately explain the work of this Commission, whether anyone will report on who was a member or a member of this Commission, I don't know. However, before I start with anything I want to say that I absolutely don't know any person who was a candidate or candidate here, but here I am coming back and thinking about how we were just discussing how women are even, yet the woman is in the leading positions, it's clear when women are bold and applications are re-elected male colleague, so every time I get reports like this, I see that out of the three candidates, I still choose a man, and I get a little bit into that analysis. And so I analyzed the first-ranked and 110 of this that was delivered to us as a biography, and I tried to do a little mathematically to add and subtract this work experience. So, Mr. first-ranked by this would be about 10 years and a couple of months if we properly analyzed. So, the gentleman cites work experience and says that from 2004 to April 2011, he worked in the Federation of BiH Parliament, and you have a list before he says - a postgraduate study in the UK since 2007-2008, which means that the gentleman had to interrupt, right, his working relationship and go to school, to the master, it doesn't matter what. Going to school doesn't get into work experience or a period of work. So, when a little more detailed analysis is made, and I think that the gentleman, at least by these criteria set out by the Commission, does not fulfil at least 10 years of work experience. So the question arises as to what was being managed by this respected Commission and why, here is why, when other candidates or candidates analyze their CV, the work experience, I am also for young people to come to positions, to be employed, to be employed, but by analysing this work experience, it is absolutely not true what is stated to meet all the conditions they meet. I also think that someone should come to us from this Commission and explain all of the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11884	Thank you. Dijana Zelenika, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11885	Thank you very much. Here, given that there is no chairman of the Commission, as my colleague Maja said, so Mr Asim Sarajlić was the President of the Commission, or the Committee for the Implementation of the Procedure for the appointment of the Vice Chief Auditor in the Audit Office. Mr. Krčmar was the first deputy, and here I see that he came out, so the rest is on me as the second deputy that I try to explain something. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11887	Don't have a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11888	Yeah, yeah, women, okay, women are the bravest and it goes back to my thesis that women are stronger sex, I didn't run away today, here I am going to try to answer to my colleague Maji. And I'm also going to say that I don't know any of the candidates, nor does it mean anything to me, if I'm looking at maybe I'm some opposition party, so I'm not part of that coalition either, so nothing really led me, but we've been looking at the documentation. And after we adopted the Rules of Procedure, we made a decision on the call for a public tender, which was published in "The Official Messenger", we received 8 applications, so I can't even say for one that the application was because it was no anonymous memo. After all 111 applications have been considered and these evidence of meeting both general and special conditions has been called on candidates for an interview. Seven were called, six came. Mr. Pilice's file says that his experience is 10 years, 8 months and 15 days, as I recall, and his IDs have been issued by three government institutions. So, at one point, he was even the secretary of the Legislative Commission of the House of Peoples of the Federation. So, if the authorities are betraying you something that's coming to me, then I'm not some kind of lawyer to check it out. What has been delivered must be considered valid and its documentation was absolutely complete. As for the break-up during the postgraduate study, I don't know how this is done, I can only take my own example, so I didn't even notice it, so while I was specialising in Zagreb, I attended a postgraduate study that was part of my working relationship, and this working relationship was not interrupted during that period. And I really couldn't conclude from this file that it wasn't valid and that it was interrupted. So, according to this, he meets these conditions. As far as sex is concerned, here I can say, I won't name it, that I gave the highest grade to a woman, because some of the questions that I purposely made quite provocative in order to see their thinking, she, in my opinion, answered those provocations most challenging. That was my attitude. But I also have to say that Mr. Pilica has shown, here's the top-notch knowledge of that interview. It's the fact that it's the way I've experienced it and I personally gave him a very high grade. The sum of points on that committee is what you have ahead of you and I really don't see any problems. Here, it's kind of my attitude to the commission that's really put a lot of work into it and I think it's very proper to do its job. Now, validity, I will repeat myself again, if the three institutions of the government have issued this documentation of what remains to the Commission rather than believe in the institutions of the government and the validity of the documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11889	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 31, Ad. 31. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both PSBiH homes, issue: 01,02-50-14-838/16, since 16.03.2016. At the 12th session held on 09.03.2016, the joint college of both homes, in accordance with Article 51(9) of the Framework Law on Higher Education of BiH and the established obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, established that proposal for a conclusion. It is proposed that the members of the Interim Joint Committee be appointed representatives: Nenad Lalić, Mirsad Đonlagić and Nikola Lovrinović, and representatives: Safet Softić, Darko Babalj and Zdenka Džambas. 112 I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to 32nd, Ad. Thirty-two. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Cooperation in the Search for Missing Persons between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, issue: 01,02-05-2-541/16, dated 15.02.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11892	... The SDP presented enough reasons why we cannot give consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I do not want to talk about it further. [[no microphone turned on]] Madam Chairman, please, and the other members of the College, in the follow-up to this session, provide us with an individual vote for these two ratifications, because we will support this other one, and in case we vote together, then we would give a negative assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11893	Thank you. Here, you see, we haven't even brought the debate together. It's not our intention to put the vote together. Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11894	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I need to, now that we're talking about this agreement and our consent to its ratification, say a few sentences and try to respond to the remarks that have been made today when setting the agenda for this agreement. I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina should ratify this Agreement and that today's House of Representatives should give consent to the ratification of the Protocol. It is, therefore, about the Protocol on Co-operation in Searching for Missing Persons between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which aims to enable as effective as possible, more successful in finding or searching for missing persons. The protocol is in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that today we should give ours to this Protocol, and all the remarks made on this Protocol are on the trail, in my opinion, of one cheap politicisation and playing with very serious things. We can't politicize these things, nor tie them to the signing of this Agreement with any dates, events, verdicts, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina and we as Parliament must be serious and responsible. 113 Serbia's attitude towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia's behaviour towards Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past must be appreciated on the basis of the truth, based on justice, and there are no deviations. But Bosnia and Herzegovina must co-operate, and should co-operate, with the Republic of Serbia, to co-operate with the Republic of Croatia, to co-operate with all countries of the region and to develop and strengthen regional co-operation. What we could hear today as proposals and reasons not to adopt this Agreement is actually a complete block of bilateral relations. And I don't think we as Parliament should do it. I went out for a pay phone on purpose to say it. We will insist on the truth, on justice, on the facts of the past, and there, therefore, there is no indulgence, but we will cooperate and we should cooperate. Calling for patriotic reasons and using them to block this co-operation isn't helping Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's a shame Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I want to say it openly and publicly here. To appeal to the Dayton Peace Accords, Annex I, Article 9.2. and to say that it was solved by the first aneks to talk about the military aspect of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that that's why we shouldn't adopt this today, because it's as regulated, it doesn't stand. We have a Constitution, Annex IV, so we've passed several hundred laws since '96. It's a year away from here. Of course, we should also bring this agreement, not to say... that the issues that are regulated by this Agreement are only partially affected by this Article 9.2. Anexa and the Dayton Peace Accords, so I don't read it. I call on Parliament to give consent to the ratification of this Agreement and to reject these attempts today as attempts at cheapest politicisation. We as Parliament must not do this, it is not in the interest of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11895	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11896	Dear colleague, no one here is politicizing, but talking about facts. The exchange, Article 9(2) – where places have been buried, whether individual or mass, known as a matter of record or where graves, are factually determined to exist, each party will allow registration staff, and so on. That's what the Dayton Peace Agreement says. And I'm not politicizing, but I want it to be clear to me why it's special, if we all call for respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement. If we respect and Serbia pleads and keeps saying that it respects and wants what is signed in the Dayton Peace Agreement to be fulfilled, then someone has to explain it to me. I hope that this will be the proposing here, and that, since it is a ratification of the Protocol, it should be here to explain the sentence to me – in order to contribute to the mitigation of the severe humanitarian consequences of the conflict in the area of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. How are we going to implement the protocol we sign with Serbia in Croatia? How are we going to implement the protocol we sign with Serbia in Montenegro? Someone has to explain that to me. Because it says here -- the space of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, not in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, because an agreement is being signed between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, and it would be necessary for the promoter to be here and explain this to us. Maybe I'll change my mind. I am not against, on the contrary, I am for full co-operation, full co-operation and for the signing of mutual agreements that will bring progress to both entities, i.e. two states. So it's the promoter who needs to clear this up for me. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11897	Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11898	In order not to replace the thesis, so no one here in Parliament has spoken of that there is no co-operation and this Parliament has also adopted a whole series of agreements, etc., and between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. However, this protocol is unacceptable to us, primarily because of legal facts and arguments. We've talked a lot today, and we want to do it again. The first thing, this Protocol gives an assessment of the character of events in these areas, and here it is said, consistently – in a conflict in the space of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And no one answered, there is no one from the proposings at this time, to say whether it is possible for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Serbia to speak, to conclude an agreement that treats the entire former SFRY. Clearly, it's not possible. I loved having any of the props tell us what it was about. The second thing in this Protocol is the real family of truth. All the time, at least one part of us is talking about it. The Protocol was concluded by two UN members, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. The court, the UN's highest legal court, has reached a verdict that is binding both on one state and another. We know that the state with which we have signed this protokol does not recognise this highest world instance, does not acknowledge that truth. So we have the right and the opportunity to ask what this provision of truth means when the truth of the highest international court is not recognised? Not to mention other things in this content, not to repeat the discussion. So we have very clearly presented the reasons why this should wait for ratification. We don't run away from a whole series of other agreements, but this, I agree, is a very sensitive issue and deserves, it's quite certain, that it's also good to study what it means for Bosnia and Herzegovina and not to rush into light, especially some of the upcoming judgments that need to be given in a judicial manner what happened here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11899	Deputy Džaferović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11900	Mr. Bećirović, I have great respect for the initiatives that you put up with and I try to support them always, and even when I see that they partially penetrate the sphere of politicization. You haven't made a single argument, you've politicized this thing, Mr. Bećirović. Today Amor Mašović came here to Parliament and you had a chance to talk to him and to hear him, I speak here as he is, to hear that this is in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the interest of missing persons, everyone. You have again presented as a key thesis some events to wait for, Bosnia and Herzegovina should conclude this Agreement, you have not listed any reason why you should not. You talked about the definitions of the Agreement, about the armed conflict in the area of the former Yugoslavia, that term does not apply this Agreement, it speaks of the mitigation of severe humanitarian consequences in the area of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I know what the character of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, and you know it, we agree whether I should now, having a debate about it here in Parliament, to end all further life in Bosnia and Herzegovina, co-operation in the region. I've told the truth and justice will go its own way and there's no deviation. Article 2 and 2.9 respectively. Annex I says - in those cases, it's written '95. In the burial sites, either individual or mass known as a matter of record or where 115 graves are, where graves are found in fact to exist, each party will allow the persons to register the graves of the other side to enter the territory for a period of common agreement, and for the limited purpose of the procedure relating to such tombs to extract and evacuate the bodies of the deceased military staff or civilians of that party, including the deceased prisoners of war. You refer to it and say that because of what this says, it doesn't need this Agreement. And this Agreement says,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11901	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11902	Allow me only, I ask you, the competent authorities of the party will inform each other of the time of exhumation and/or identification, although there is a shown and/or mutual interest to allow the presence of representatives of the other party as observers during the exhumation and identification carried out on the territory of one of the parties. The presence will also be made possible by representatives of interested international organisations in accordance with their mandates in the territory of the State and of the parties carrying out the exhumation and identification. It allows, therefore, for the agreement to come up with data on missing persons as soon as possible, to resolve the issue. Should we stop it and justify it to some, for me, and for the sake of the situation, irrational things. Mr Bećirović, this is an attempt to politicise and do not play with the state and its interests, no political party is above the interest of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11903	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11904	Well, I think that today at the debate on the agenda we've heard a lot and it's said about this Agreement, but really tonight, here at the end of today's debate and discussion, I have to say that it's a really intolerable dose of intolerance and the extreme approach of Denis Bećirović in this very sensitive issue, a sensitive issue not for politicians and for this House here and for political parties, but for people and families who have been suffering and living in agony for 20 years because they can't find their loved ones and dearest family members who have disappeared and have not been found today. Obviously, it is clear to you what this Agreement applies to, but you will not accept the fact that we can't live as a busy society in yours, in your film and in your story that everything should stop and wait to hear and see what the verdict for Radovan Karadžić or Vojislav Šešelj will be. This speaks of you in which you film and in which you live at the moment when you need to adopt this Agreement to help everyone solve things and to get rid of those people who suffer the most and who are damaged by it because it could not be done until today. This is not the first time that Denis Bećirović has expressed such nationalist and intolerable views about Serbia, without respecting, therefore, a constituent people in this country who live and who care first and foremost that there are good inter-human and neighbouring relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. I understand your intentions and yours, your perception of this whole story, but thank Bog you're not in a situation where you're wondering today and that you're where you are, and you're going to stay long where you are in the opposition, which says that SNSD is an opposition, although Denis Zvizdić, Mr Denis Zvizdić, has signed this Agreement and has been nominated by the position and by the current assembly majority and authorities, so we 116 as an opposition will support it. What we should say – we will not, just to be contrary to this story. So do you listen to yourself today as you say and in which you bring such a sensitive and difficult question as the search for missing persons and the establishment of co-operation between the two countries so that these issues can be resolved. You're bringing into context
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11905	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11906	Vojislav Šešelj, who, first of all, is the question of how much this verdict will be given to him in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at least to these families involved in this Agreement. Do you listen to yourself and can you refrain from this demagogy that is already beginning to offend common sense in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11907	Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11908	So, what Mrs Marković was saying, I will not comment on it for the simple reason that the good part of the discussion was offensive and deserved probably a reminder from the chairman. However, I will return to what my colleague Džaferović was talking about. I think my colleague Džaferović thinks you're politicizing here now. We have made it very clear today, we who have spoken about what the Dayton Peace Agreement prescribes and not only the Annex, which you spoke of, but we have said that it was regulated and aneks vi, title – Missing Persons. And we asked what's been waiting 21 years? Of course, we didn't get an answer to that question, we didn't even get answers to a number of questions about the content of this text, we didn't even get an answer to the question, if it's already a desire for honest co-operation, why don't we really get data from Serbia's MUP and their Scorpion unit, what did they do, and where are the grave sites of people they killed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To all these answers (?) And we haven't received a single answer from many others. And we disagree with that, we think this is not good, we think that agreements should be made that respect and the judgments of the International Court of Justice and that are much more qualitative in solving such sensitive issues, respecting all the people in this country, especially the victims. And we've said it very clearly and precisely today, and nobody should be angry about what we're saying and we're not blind to what's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11909	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11910	A colleague, Džaferović, had a minute and 15 seconds after the end...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11911	Please, you're all properly alerted on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11912	Okay, so Col. Džaferović can do it for a minute and a half longer, and I have to do it in exactly three minutes. And I guess that's the Rules of Procedure here and his way of doing it. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11913	Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11914	I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11915	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11916	Thank you. I agree with everything Mr. Džaferović said earlier, this one, so I will not repeat these things concerning general co-operation and overall bilateral relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, this is not the first protocol, nor the agreement with Serbia, and it is necessary that these relations develop, of course. So I'm going to touch on a specific topic, this Agreement, so I'm going to look for the missing. And what can't be denied is that this Protocol will significantly help many families find peace. These people have been waiting for years, in many cases, here we can say for decades in almost all cases, and I don't think we have the right to ask them to wait for the day more if I can wait a day less. So any suggestions to wait with the ratification of this Agreement we cannot support. And this agreement, again it's a fact, it can only shorten that time, that it can't possibly delay the time for these families to find peace, it can only shorten, it's a fact, and it has very many operating parts that make it possible. So we as a club won't, uh, and we can't support any proposal to postpone this and of course we'll vote for ratification. And as far as I'm concerned, I've tried to listen on both legal and human terms to this argument Mr. Bećirović made, and it seems to me that all the minors come down to this termology by conflicts in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. You see something, if Serbia had suggested standing there during the civil war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, so of course it wouldn't have come before us, so it's something that would be discussed as controversial terminology, but if there's only conflict in the areas of the former Yugoslavia, and then if it's specifically about matter that helps families find peace, I don't think there's really room for any criticism of this Protocol, and I think that this is something that, after all, not only in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina but mainly in the interest of the victims' families, should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11917	Mladen Bosić deputy, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11918	Well, I think there's a missing topic here, this is something we shouldn't be having a discussion about at all. This is about the thing about all sides and Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is about, to remind you, and the Srbin they are looking for, and the Bošnjak, and the Hrvat, and the others. So taking advantage of such topics for picking up cheap political points is something that would be some bottom line of tolerance for political abuse. So there's still something that should be worth everybody's piety, and this is about families who can't find their missing in the 118th war, calling for such an agreement to be rejected in a formulation of how the last war was characterized. Well, right here, there was a war in the area of the former Yugoslavia, we all know, we can qualify it differently, and we know what it's about. So I'm asking you not to go into this topic anymore in these discussions, because it seems to me that it is, in some way, below that limit of dignity.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11919	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11920	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I won't say anything more than I said when I was just discussing the agenda, but I talked to my colleague Bećirović and I don't see any concern, no reason, or why he writes an armed conflict in the area of the former Yugoslavia. It would probably not have come to the Agreement if the parties wanted to introduce the character of war in a different way in this Agreement, because one would say civil war, the other would have said aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and would never have an agreement. And this Agreement certainly does not have a political character, but it has a purely humanitarian, purely humanitarian character. I am sorry that this agreement has not occurred before, but we can only regret it in this room, and that the previous assembly of Parliament and BiH and Serbia has not come to this agreement. Probably many who died 10 years or five years ago and didn't wait to find peace for their sons, husbands, sisters, and I don't know who lost who and who disappeared in the last war. So I invite you, and I call on your club, to help those who are not interested in our political game, they are interested in getting to, to find a way between the two countries to find those who have been looking for 20 years. To repeat what I said and when I first came forward when we talked about this issue, an agreement between the two countries is necessary if we find only one person, only one person, without talking about tens, hundreds and thousands of people who, possibly this and thousands of people who have an interest in getting to this Agreement, as well as those we're looking for, and their families who have been waiting for it for two decades. So I don't think there's any reason to go back to the previous kind of political and some conspiracy theory that it's going to be this or him. I don't think there's any space here, and I'm sure it's not at all about an agreement that has any political character, and I'm looking at it in this sense, as I've already said, that it's just one human step that we need to end here today, given that it has passed the procedure of both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11921	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11922	I cannot believe that it is possible that we constantly want to work for the benefit of our own damage, as it is possible for us to manipulate the most subtle, most sensitive segment 119 for anyone's family in Bosnia and Herzegovina or in any other state in terms of an agreement that would facilitate the process of finding any person, or everyone, by leaving anyone to blame in that regard. And we feel like we're living in a period of the ugliest state of war and in a situation where we forget that today countries that are fighting each other have teams to identify and find the missing. As possible, this morning a colleague spoke of an important issue, which is tragic for this country too, that one person was not found after 20 years of death, had not been clarified. So, in a country where we have absolute control over everything we haven't been able to find, it's not someone else, nobody else but someone from Bosnia and Herzegovina... killed him. As possible, what right do we have to say that we will put aside the international agreement that the country's greatest experts have proposed. And how it's possible that Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't constantly want to work for itself to slap. We had this when we attacked the neighbouring country's prime minister, he comes after an hour and a half of the effect calls on the country's presidency to visit the neighbouring country. Does that tell us anything about how much we're political donkeys? I mean, I really can't come to my senses. The second situation, and after that says yes, we are going to an investment conference. Serbia and the Republic of Croatia have also signed an identical agreement as a key condition for European integration and acceleration, thus coming to the discovery of persons who have disappeared during the war conflicts in these areas. Bosnia and Herzegovina is sending a message here, I have to tell you right now, I don't want to call anyone to vote on this, I will vote for that agreement for every Bošnjak, for every Hrvat, for every Srbin, for anyone, any man missing here. If any of the bones are found, we have this moral obligation, that moral obligation to act independently. And that's why I'm making everyone responsible for anything, but this has nothing to do with the international agreement. How can we manipulate the most subtle feelings of people looking for their own and who might still think some of them, that if they don't find him, he's potentially alive? We don't have the right, the people didn't choose us, we have to rise above interest. This is a much greater interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina than the neighbouring country with which we are sending a message that we do not want low co-operation, that we do not want low, as it is. Previously, we had a positive trend in the government meeting of the neighbouring Republic with the Council of Ministers, compared to preparing a session of governments, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we say – no, we need to humiliate everyone. And the worse thing to be in this whole story, so we're not at all, we're acting, we're acting, so here every Bošnjak who does it, number one, works against Bošnjak, here people can't understand the specificity of this country's arrangement and that this Agreement, it's not hurting anything. Do we think that we can... so we humiliate ourselves with this kind of relationship and not at all discuss anything else, what, what kind of message we're going to send tomorrow, how we're ready tomorrow for the presidents of all countries of the region to engage in the activity of Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress? We are Niko bigger enemy than ourselves with our partial interests and stories that I am a good or a great Bošnjak or a great Srbin or a Hrvat, as many people in this story.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11923	Thank you. Fehim Škaljić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11924	It is my view, ladies and gentlemen, that the Protocol should be adopted and that it is our duty. It is another step in the construction of a road that needs to eliminate things that still burden relations in the regions between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia from the last war. It's a thing that allows us to devote ourselves to finding solutions that will allow people to cooperate, to have business with each other with 120 profits and interests and to have countries performing together in things that we share in common interest. I would like to remind you that both we in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the Republic of Serbia are committed to going to Europe, to the European Community of States, to be together. And we will have to work together on that path and look for solutions. If we're engaged, we've closed our path. And the citizens demand to be looked into the future and to eliminate on the path of the future what burdens us, but not a way to stop the future. I will support and vote in favour of this and be committed to always looking for solutions that allow countries to co-operate in favour of their citizens and to achieve the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11925	Senad Šepić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11926	Well, here's a few sentences. I really didn't like it, like, I didn't understand that someone said that it was against any kind of co-operation, so neither did counterpart Bećirović, nor any other people who had some kind of dilemma. For example, I was at the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting two days ago and I, myself, had some misunderstandings about the very way some questions were being raised. I think it's legitimate to ask the people who prepared this whole thing to make it clear to us today, and I expected to hear it. You know, today I've also called on the chairman of the Council of Ministers and some fellow ministers to get these technical things, to answer that, we'd all find it easier. You know, I don't think it's correct, and it's not, after all, actually true, that we're now transferring things to a plane that someone's against some kind of co-operation, at least that's not how I've experienced it. And I will do everything to have as much regional cooperation as possible and to open those activities in that sense. And I don't think that, especially for that, we should think about it, so the role of Parliament in terms of ratification of these international agreements. We have a situation to take or leave, when this comes to us, then we have our part as Parliament, as Parliament's Assembly in accepting and in treating certain international documents, but we only have the opportunity to say we want to accept it or we will be against it. Do not dispute that someone in the communication process is simply asking someone to provide him with some additional information and may request additional time. And don't think, say, that this should be a problem for any of us and that it should be treated as some kind of non-cooperation or some kind of unwillingness to strengthen regional co-operation. I needed to say this because I really felt that somehow there was a story being run that someone was against regional co-operation. Here, I didn't understand that today's people had a dilemma, and I also had a dilemma in one way, so against regional co-operation and against our need to enable in this area, therefore, better co-operation and the possibility of solving these problems. And briefly another sentence, I wish this hadn't happened, if we had had this kind of reasoning from people who had participated in the preparation of these documents in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11927	Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11928	... should naturally understand all these discussions, every MP and club has the right to their views, we of the SDP Club have said that we will vote against this Protocol and remain in that position. There are people here who think Serbia's intentions towards Bosnia and Herzegovina are correct and well-intentioned. I am not among those MPs, I do not think it is well-intentioned that 121 Serbia last year legalised the Chetnic Equality Movement, because the process was carried out by genocide on Bošnjak. I do not think that normalising the relationship is that the "Official Messenger" of the government of the Republic of Serbia is the print of the works of Dobrica Ćosić and other academics who say that there was a civil war here, and that I do not say everything else they say. I don't think the whole series, dozens of moves and strategies that Serbia, and the move, is making towards Bosnia and Herzegovina are well-intentioned. I don't think this Protocol is well-intentioned by Serbia either. And whether we, who talked about it today, are right or those who had the opposite attitudes, release the coming time in the coming months and years to see who was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11929	Nermina Kapetanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11930	Thank you, Madam Chairman. They Ponović what I said at the session of the Commission and at the club session. I have no doubt, I have no doubt that Mr Bećirović, it is possible that he had quite a good intention, but if he comes officially to the Foreign Affairs Commission session, here in the hall there are other members of the Foreign Affairs Commission, he questions the members of the Foreign Affairs Commission, if it is not my natural right to, when doubts are raised in the agreement proposed by the Council of Ministers, my logical question is – give us some information or in written form, or make your knowledge known to us, because it is said – I know, and I will say it in Parliament. It's not the way we communicate on the working bodies that we're all prepared for here today... that most of the work is done on the working bodies. So, as members of the Foreign Affairs Commission, we should know the arguments that MP Bećirović has here today, some say are manipulating, but it brings us to one, one, one political chaos. I'm not quite ready to use too many words, but I totally agree with my colleague, Prodanović, because I guess we doctors speak language, as I would say, in plain language, I really think that your qualification, unfortunately, is true, we are political donkeys and we are alone, we are collateral damage not to ourselves but to your children and the future of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Will this Parliamentary Assembly, in the name of the future of the children of Bosnia and Herzegovina, finally come out of its deep trenches' burial, political parties, peoples, blocks, positions, opposition, will it give an arm of reconciliation already? I have a right to ask. I am often with the victims, with families of the victims and persons who have disappeared, desperately, desperately cry and family to find, both peace and their deaths. It is said in every religion – there is no peace for a person who died until he is found and settled in an eternal resting place. I can't understand that we have come this far today to mention now Dobrica Ćosić and... from Serbia, we would like to be an interpreter of everything in the world. Can we accept the fact that we will and must co-operate with the government of Serbia and with the governments of the countries of the region and that this act by the Council of Ministers is nothing more than an act of well-meaning co-operation on behalf of the families of the victims. Here, today is the name of the distinguished Mr. Amaro Mašović, a person with whom I often, me and Mr. Ahmetović, work together, desperately beg the family for this problem to be resolved. Today we have come from their despair to another despair that some interpret, called the Dobrica of Ćosić, or the third or the tenth. And he's absolutely right, once again I say, Mr. Prodanović, so if we can make a final step, some other interpreters, history will best tell the character of the events that happened and give everyone a qualification. The courts will judge those who have committed a crime, and let's work together with the countries of the region because otherwise we cannot. So that our story is not declared – we want good neighbourly co-operation, we want to go forward and into the EU, and on these 122 things we fall, we make terrible mistakes. I say again, it's a terrible disrespect, disrespect for the fact that these victims have tragically passed away from any nation, but families are desperate, we have to respect the good intentions of both governments and one state and another. And I ask the MPs to show their good will today. Let's go for the future of those who have survived, those who are just being born, let's go work together with the countries of the region and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11931	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11932	Dear colleagues, use Nermina's heavy words if someone has the opposite attitude, you know the head is for thinking, very difficult words. No Niko is against co-operation, no one is against developing non-good neighbourly relations, but co-operation is complete in every segment of life, because it is necessary in these areas of such depravity and sophistication. It's something that's dictated by the general conditions of living in these places and, I guess, by human reason. But we need to be careful when it comes to formulations, you can't tell, so take a stenogram, see what. In this way you bring one part of those who express their opinion in such a position that they are enemies and that they are those who want to break down, which is absolutely not true. I read the SANU Memorandum and it would be good, and I'll print it next time, and then read it well, well, every attitude from Memoranda II read it. I know it's done by a group of those who don't want well to their people either, but if we think that way, history won't change sometimes and say it is, history is created in these places for centuries. Well the Chetnik movement was created, there was no Drina of what was at the time of World War II, there was no Banjica at the time of World War II, there was no Blajburg at the time of the former Yugoslavia, Communism, there was not everything, history was created. If we're going to participate in the creation of history I'm the first to come out of all this, I don't want to create it, I want it to be what really happened, what happened in these places.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11933	Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11934	Thank you very much. I thought I wasn't taking part in this debate, I can't answer it, and I can't not answer it. In fact, I was encouraged by my colleague, Prodanović, who has repeated the same question countless times, and it has always been said – as possible, as possible. There's been so many of us wondering for 20 years how much is possible. As possible, he says, we weren't ready for this kind of cooperation until now, that we weren't people, that we weren't people, that we weren't people, I wonder when it was killing each other. How is it possible for us in these quests for so-called. The missing, and we know very well that most of them are not missing, were mostly found, if they were not found it is known that they will be found after 20 years, it wasn't, wasn't it enough and this constitutional provision mentioned. So it's possible that we didn't have enough to do something about it, all of us, on all sides, where it's been. There's a lot of these, so as far as possible. And I'm interested, if so far nothing has been possible, will this Protocol, so now as an agent without emotion, will this Protocol, after 20 years of searching, be solved? Will they, most of the discussion go that way, and I wonder if now someone will finally point their finger and say – there are people buried here, whatever and wherever? If anyone knows that, then again, the question remains how is it possible to keep quiet so far? Is there really a magic wand in 123 of this Protocol? And this, I'm talking because I know what it means and I know what it means to look and what it means to lose hope and what it means to find it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11935	I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 33, Ad. 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina LD 1836 (2014) – credit for the social programme of housing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, which is implemented by the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank (IRBRS), number: 01.02-05-2-542/16, since 15.02.2016. You've been given the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. That's how we exhausted today's session agenda. I'm taking a break, here until 8:00, and I'll meet you here at the vote at 8:00, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11939	Okay, I'm going to try not to take up a lot of time now, because I'm part of the discussion that I meant to say at the part where we talked about the urgency of the process of passing this law. In fact, first of all, I'm sorry that this law, as far as I can tell by the mood of my colleagues, is going to pass today, but I have to tell the public, for the sake of the public, that, according to my understanding, and no one has convinced me, we've been doing nothing for years, and we've brought this system where we are today. And nothing's gonna get rid of this. In addition, I think that these amendments and amendments to the law are in breach of the legal principles, and in addition, it is contrary to the Consumers Act of BiH. I am, of course, staying at the suggestions of my conclusions, and just for your sakes, not one of you have seen a little bit, at the last moment, as it seems, I will only tell you on the example of Germany and Switzerland. So, the RTV tax in Germany is used to finance the Public Radio Television of the ZDF and Dojchland Radio as well as 9 regional radio televisions connected to the RD network and together have 22 television channels, 10 regional, 10 state, 2 international, and 61 radio stations, 58 regional, 3 state. And as it looks in Switzerland, let me just tell you, so, which has a special agency, it's called Bilag, and it collects on behalf of the state, so, and public TV service that public TV subscription and is independent of the National Public Television Service and it collects and collects taxes and divides them into local TV, regional and even private. So they're also getting money. And in Switzerland it works, so there are 7 television channels and 17 radio stations and it is made up of 4 radio TV broadcasters, Swiss tv in German, Swiss tv in French, Swiss tv in Italian, Swiss tv in retro-romantic language, etc. So, that the gents of the System Committee tried to find some solutions, not the last half of the year, not the last year, but the last 7-8 years, so if you want from the adoption of this Law, they could find a solution, they had a legal foothold to look for a solution, they could bring it, they could act on it. Nothing seems to happen if this law doesn't pass today. How they still charge for that TV subscription so far. The amendment we made, Article 42, in the previous period half a year has expired and they are doing it again. So, it's not true, this Parliament is entering something, it's gone into something once, which is not required, it's not legally binding. So it's a mandatory board of systems. And I'm asking you, so if it's possible, that we cut this one time, and there's no point in going on like this, and in two months, three, someone said today, we're going to have a proposal like this again, and we're going to go round and we're never going to finish this story, it seems to me that we can never finish this story until everything collapses. Unfortunately, that's what those who project that this is a solution they've been doing for years, and they've brought the system, responsibly, where it is today. So we're breaking the law, the principles of law, 125 we're breaking the Consumer Protection Act and we're going into law-making that hasn't passed any normal procedure. I remain with my conclusions, and I demand that Parliament declare them, because there seems to be no others, but to appoint new people who will try to resolve this situation in accordance with the law which is at least now in force.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11940	I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on the bill. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the public TV system of BiH. Of the 36 present – for 25, against 10, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 20 for, 5 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have passed the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV system. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Nikola Lovrinović. Are we going to vote in the package, that's what you're proposing or, will you, Mr. Lovrinović, vote separately or will you...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11941	I'd like to vote separately.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11942	Separately. Are we going to read the conclusions or, you know, there are three conclusions? Thus, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly responsible for the non-implementation of the Law on the Public TV System, and thus in BHRT as a service, is considered by the Management Board of the System, i.e. BHRT. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 36 present – for 9, against 23, abstention 4. Federation of BiH 5 for, 17 against, 3 abstentions, the Republic... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 36 present – for 10, against 20, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 5 for, 15 against, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. There is no general majority, I find that the conclusion has not been adopted. Let's go to conclusion number two. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has dismissed the BHRT Management Board's duties and requires the launch of a procedure for the appointment of a new composition. We are making a proposal for a vote. 126 Out of 36 present – for 10, v 24, abstention 2. Federation of BiH 5 for, 19 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 5 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. There is no general majority, I find that the conclusion has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11944	I'm giving up the third conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11945	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of representative Dušanka Majkić. Should I read the conclusion? Of the 36 present – for 5, against 17, abstention 14. The Federation of BiH 1 for, 12 against, 12 abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. There is no general majority, I find that the conclusion has not been adopted. Moving to point 4. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 36 present – for 35, no objection, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 25 for, no objection, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 10 for, no objection, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have passed the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's honours – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the 36 present – for 34, against nothing, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 24 for, no objection, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 10 for, no objection, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's honours law in the first reading. We're moving on to point six. – Proposal for an official version of the consolidated text of the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives. We are voting to determine the official consolidated text. Of the 36 present – for 35, there is no, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 25 for, no objection, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 10 for, no objection, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have established the official consolidated text of the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures. We're moving on to Cube 7. – Proposal for an official version of the consolidated text of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives. We are voting to determine the official consolidated text. 127 Of the 36 present – for 36, no objection, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 25 for, no objection, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. The general and entity majority exist, I find that we have established the official consolidated text of the Law on Citizenship of theBiH. We're going to point 8. – Report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2015. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 36 present – for 34, there is no, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 24 for, no objection, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 10 for, no objection, 1 abstention. With the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 205. Moving to point 9. – Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of PSBiH for 2015. We're voting for adoption of the izvjšće. Of the 36 present – for 31, no objection, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 20 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2015. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of representative Dušanka Majkić. Do I have to read the conclusion, it's about video surveillance, to remind you?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11946	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11947	Please repeat the vote. Of the 36 present – for 33 against 3, there are no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 22 for, 3 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusion of MP Dušanka Majkić. We're going to points 10 to 15. – Reports on the work of permanent committees of the House of Representatives for 2015. First, I would like to put a motion on the vote to bring together the vote on points 10 to 15, as it is reports on the work of the Permanent Commissions of the House of Representatives. So, first we vote on that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, let me just say, and you don't put us in a position, we have this proposal to vote on. You will plead, if you wish to object, of course. 128 We vote on a motion to unite voting on reports on the work of permanent committees from 10 to 15. Of the 36 present – for 26 against 8, abstention2. The Federation of BiH 15 for, 8 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no prototes, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the conclusion that we will unite the vote on points 10 to 15. We now declare points 10 to 15. We vote, meaning the adoption of a report on the work of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives for 2015. Of the 36 present – for 28, against 6, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 17 for, 6 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted reports on the work of the Permanent Commissions of the House of Representatives for 2015. And now we move to points 16 to 21. – Reports on the work of the permanent commissions of both homes for 2015. I would like to put the motion to vote to bring together the vote on points 16 to 21, given that there are reports on the work of the permanent committees of both homes. Of the 36 present – for 27 against 8, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 16 for, 8 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have united the vote on reports on the work of the permanent commissions of both homes. And now we're voting on the adoption of a report on the work of the permanent commissions of both homes for 2015, so points 16 to 21. Of the 36 present – for 29 against 4, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 18 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted reports on the work of the permanent commissions of both homes for 2015. Moving to point 22. – Special Report "Accessibility of the working spaces of the legislative bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina to persons with disabilities" – applicant: The institution of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 36 total attendance – for 35, no objection, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 24 for, no objection, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Special Report "Accessibility of the Working Spaces of the Legislative Authorities in BiH to Persons with Disabilities" of the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights of BiH. We are now voting on the adoption of a conclusion from the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. Of the 36 present, for 30, you don't mind... 129 ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11950	Repeat the vote. Let the vote happen again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11951	Here, we repeat the vote. 130 Of the 36 present – for 16, against 14, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 7 for, 14, v, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska 9 for, no objection, 2 abstentions. With the general majority, there is no entity majority in the Federation, and in Republika Srpska there is. Shall we agree, round two? Later. Point 25. – Reviewing Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 36 present – for 23, against 1 abstention 12. The Federation of BiH 17 for, no objection, 8 abstentions, Republika Srpska 6 for, 1 versus, 4 abstentions. With the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted Damir Arnaut's initiative. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Arnaut. Of the 36 present – for 18.2 against, abstention 16. The Federation of BiH 13 for, no objection, 12 abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, 2 against, 4 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the proposal of the conclusion of Agent Damir Arnaut. Moving to point 26. – Reviewing Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 36 present – for 15, against 4, abstention 17. Federation of BiH 14 for, 3 against, 8 abstentions, Republika Srpska 1 for, 1 against... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 36 present – for 15, against 11, abstention 10. The Federation... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11956	Wait a minute. 132 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11957	Please don't talk in one voice. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat our vote. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11961	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11962	What did you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11963	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11964	Please repeat once again, because the monitor shows us that we are voting for the first time. Repeat for the second round of voting. Of the 36 present – for 22, v 10, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH 21 for, no favor, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska 1 for, 10 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general majority, there are 2/3 of RS, we have not adopted the Maja Gasal-Gasal-Vražalica parliamentary initiative. Moving to point 29. - Complementary of the Yearly Plan, please be patient... 133
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11965	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11966	We're voting now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11967	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11968	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11969	Thank you very much. So, you've repeated the vote. We repeat the vote and vote for the first time and the monitor says the first vote is not over. And then you're looking for a repeat and that second vote. Wasn't there something you as a College were supposed to get back together? Did you repeat the whole vote or did you not?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-17-0.u11970	No, it's just on the monitor, it's a technical thing, it's written the first round. We have nothing to agree on, we pleaded in the second round. We're going to point 29. - Complementary of the Annual Training Plan, please pay attention. You want me to take a break, if you need to apologize, stop the vote, will you? How many breaks do you want? Everyone's talking at the same time. Well, don't be insecure, so I'm asking you nicely because, here, you can't, you're all talking in a voice. We're going to point 29. – Completion of the Annual Training and Exercise Plan of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2016 - applicant: Ministry of Defence of BiH. We are voting on receiving to know the addition of the Annual Training Plan. Of the 36 present – for 35, against nothing, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH 25 for, no objection, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 10 for, no objection, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have learned the addition of the Annual Training Plan. We're going to point 30. – Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking for the appointment of deputy chief auditor of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, the material of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes of the PSBiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the deputy chief auditor of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions. Just so you know we're voting on the appointment, that means Jasmina Pilice as deputy chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. 134 Of the 36 present – for 20, against 13, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 14 for, 9 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 6 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. There is a general, there is an entity majority, I find that we have appointed Jasmin Pilica as deputy chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We're going to point 31. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – Proposer: Joint College of both PSBiH homes. We're voting on the adoption of a conclusion. Of the 36 present – for 20, against 12, retained 4. Federation of BiH 14 for, 8 against, 3 abstentions, Republika Srpska 6 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for the conduct of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, the promoter of the Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're going to point 32. – Giving consent to ratification of the Protocol on Cooperation in the Search for Missing Persons between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are voting on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement. Of the 36 present – 25 for, against 5, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 14 for, 5 against, 6 abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection, no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have agreed to ratify the Protocol on Cooperation in the search for missing persons between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to point 33. – Giving consent to ratification of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina LD 1836 (2014) – credit for the social programme of housing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, which is implemented by the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank (IRBRS). Of the 36 present – 32 for, against nothing, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 21 for, no favour, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska 11 for, no objection and no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have agreed to ratify the Framework Loan Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank for Credit and the Social Programme for Housing Care in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Republika Srpska, which is implemented by the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank. This concludes the work and concludes the 26th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session is planned for 5 April 2016. Thank you for your cooperation today. Session completed at 8:55 p.m.
