ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13687	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, MPs, I am opening the 31st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justly announced by MPs Saša Magazinović, Momčilo Novaković and Željko Komšić. Željko Komšić and Momčilo Novaković announced a delay. The president of the SNSD Club informed the College that he would not attend this regular session and that he would join the continuation of the emergency session. So right now in the O.R., we have 25 MPs and we have quorum and conditions to work and decide. As you know, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask oral questions. The questions will be asked according to the order of arrival. First word I give to the Members of the Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13688	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. I'd like to re-establish whether any of the Council of Ministers are authorized to answer my question that we've been pro-longing for four sessions in a row. And if there is no authority, please as a College, tell Mr. Prime Minister's Chairman to answer my question in writing and deliver accordingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13689	The question was asked by the chairman, and we were informed that the chairman of the Council of Ministers would come. Is that, do we have any information from the Council of Ministers about that? If, I suggest we wait with your question and that if the chairman doesn't show up, if he does, I'll give you my word again. That's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13690	You got it. If he doesn't show up in writing, I delivered it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13691	If he doesn't show up, he'll go in writing. I give my word to Saša Magazinović, and he has announced he will not be there. Next is Aleksandra Pandurević. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13692	I thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the honourable Minister Šarović. We saw from the media that last year you launched an initiative to introduce a blue diesel for farmers. I am curious – how far has this initiative arrived? Are there any problems that hinder its realization and when farmers can finally expect a blue diesel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13693	Thank you. Minister Šarović, come in. By the way, I'll let you know, as you know, there's a television direct transmission.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13694	Thank you. I welcome you all. In these scheduled few minutes, I would like to reply to the honourable MP that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has so far delivered initiatives and proposals related to the initiative, i.e. the introduction of a blue elevator through additions to the Law on Excises of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The measure would practically provide more favourable conditions for the work of agricultural producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been exposed to increased competition, climate change and smaller incentives in both entities for a long time. This measure would free them from paying an excise fee of 0.30 KM per litre of paid excise and toll of 0.15 KM. At its 25th session, held on 29 September 2015, the Council of Ministers supported the ministry's initiative, and something after that on 09 October 2015, the Governing Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, in fact on 26 January, I apologized, in 2016, for giving a positive opinion and the BiH Finance Ministry on 21 March 2016, with the obligation of the Ministry to provide an additional explanation of financial resources, i.e. rashes, possible depletion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. All of the above activities have been completed. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry has referred the proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the BiH Council of Ministers for further action. We expect it to be found at one of the first meetings of the Council of Ministers. I must finally tell you, given that I seem to have more time, that the IMF, or its Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the last visit, expressed a kind of reserve on this measure due to budget cuts, which will certainly be. However, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations that this is necessary, given the course of the SAA negotiations and that this is the minimum that, at this time, as a kind of compensation, can be given to the agriculture sector of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but as only one measure, but I would say that it will not be enough to help the agricultural sector significantly. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13695	Thank you. The letter has the right to comment. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13696	I thank the chairman. Thank you, Minister Šarović, for your reply. I can only appeal that the authorities still take care of the interests of farmers who are threatened by unfair competition, which from the EU-wide region, and that the interests of farmers will be ahead of what is promised to the IMF or what the IMF is asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13697	Thank you. Next question, MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13698	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I delivered the issue more than a month and a half ago, but due to the failure of this legislative authority by the BiH Council of Ministers, I only have a chance after a month and a half to ask that question. The issue concerns the state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, like any other state, has its own state property. Tto is clear from the Constitution of BiH, the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Venice Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the state was the only one involved in the conflict of assets of the former SFRY, we have official laws that are in force, we have decisions of the High Representative, and finally and binding decision of the BiH Constitutional Court concerning state property. Despite that, both the Constitution and the law, the head of the Municipality of Laktashi, along with the minister of entity MUP in Republika Srpska, has passed an unlawfully invalid agreement on the transfer of ownership of the barracks of Republika Srpska's MUP. Since it is, therefore, an anti-constitutional and illegal act and that these 35 ha assets belong exclusively to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina astonishes that we have not had almost, or not almost, but no reaction from the competent state authorities, nor from the OHR, who is also responsible for reacting, my question has been addressed to the defence minister, Ms. Marina Pendeš – what has she done specifically, as defence minister, in connection with this anti-constitutional and anti-legal act?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13699	Thank you. We have a notice here that Minister Pendeš is rightly absent, but that the Deputy Minister has her authority to perform. Is the Deputy Minister there? He's not here. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13700	The second part is reserved for commenting on the answer. The MP may receive an answer but when neither the minister nor the deputy minister appear, nor anyone from the BiH Council of Ministers after three delays to give you an answer to such a large, serious and important question, then I guess that's some answer. An answer to what kind of Council of Ministers we have and how we treat ourselves as state bodies versus a capital issue such as state property. That's inadmissible. In the past month and a half, we have had discussions on a number of issues, but the issue of state property is 4 more important than any other issue. And I'm afraid individuals in power are not even aware of what could be the result of an anti-constitutional and illegal act like this. Who wants a legal anarchy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what authorities are you silent about? We need to get that answer. Here, if not at this session, we expect at least the next session of Parliament to give us an answer to that question. Not to mention whether this act was an introduction to the upcoming NATO Alliance summit in Warsaw on July 8th and 9th, and a direct attempt to mine Bosnia and Herzegovina to speed up its path to NATO membership, as I remind EU and NATO membership, are the strategic official goals of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted by the BiH presidency. And finally to finish, Your Honor, I expect from you and the College of the House of Representatives to finally provide what are the business provisions, which is that when MPs ask the question that, after at least two months of the absence of ministers and ministers from the Council of Ministers, they come here to the Parliament who elected them and to whom they should respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13701	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. I just need to remind you that neither the chairman nor the College have the mechanisms to provide what you said. We have a political will and on a political basis we will ask the Council of Ministers to respect the questions and the right of MPs to ask questions and attend such sessions. Let me also point out that we passed, a month ago, we delayed this agenda point because it was not possible to be a direct TV transmission and that is why it is likely that you have waited this long. So these are the points that were set up for that previous session a month ago and now we have the opportunity to plead by them. The next MP is Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13702	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications. At the moment of my question, no new minister was appointed. And my question is: So at the 34th session of the Council of BiH, held on 09.12.2015, you proposed information on the possibility of crossing from DVB-T to DVB-T2. The Council of Ministers adopted the same information and reached a number of conclusions. And in that sense, the question is: What are the reasons for moving to this standard, what are the technical reasons for changing standards, how much does the process of digitising this change of standards accumulate? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13703	Thank you. Does anyone from the Ministry have the authority to answer this question from the Council of Ministers? _________(?) 5 [[no microphone turned on]] The minister should come. Well, then, shall we see, if the minister comes to us, we will continue to answer this question. Do you agree, so when the minister shows up, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13705	...the minister comes. If he's not here, since the question is getting in the way of expertise, I'd like a written answer if I could...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13706	Okay, if he doesn't show up, there'll be a written answer. The next MP is Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13707	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome, of course, you, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and present guests. My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and is it – has there been any progress over the past period in meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the Energy Community and if it is what the conditions have been met, that is, what remains for Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet according to the Energy Community, in order to finally remove those sanctions that we are exposed to?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13708	Thank you. Minister Šarović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13709	Thank you. Just to begin by saying that a number of, or seven issues have been raised before the Ministerial Conference of the Energy Community in Tirana in October 2015 against Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a whole, whether as open issues or as open procedures at a further stage. So, at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministerial Conference, in fact, against Bosnia and Herzegovina, appropriate measures have been taken to ensure that the honourable MPs are also familiar with the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to close these issues. I wouldn't list them for a short period of time right now, but the answer will show what these questions are. The concrete answer is yes, over the past 8 months Bosnia and Herzegovina has progressed and here I am now going to read in which areas. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina as one of the outstanding issues, the open issues now opened up the retail electricity market in 2015. Also in 31.12.2015, when it was official deadline, Bosnia and Herzegovina handed over, so it previously adopted and submitted the National Plan to reduce emissions of harmful gases from large deposits, i.e. the thermal power plant that the Energy Community rated as a document of very good quality. And the first part we've practically succeeded, here's one of these other countries that didn't do it, to finish it. Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Council of Ministers, adopted a National Action Plan for 6 renewable energy sources, which was then also delivered to the Energy Community Secretariat, after which the sekretarijat closed the case on 12 April 2016, which was otherwise led against Bosnia and Herzegovina. A balance energy issue has also been closed, i.e. it started with the work of the balance energy market in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which operates on market principles. It is one of the major steps even in relation to the neighbours in which Bosnia and Herzegovina went. Officially closed and the State aid case was opened because of the failure of the state aid system. The commitments remaining before Bosnia and Herzegovina are the fulfillment of the Third Energy Package, i.e. It's a gas question. And in that sense, I can inform you that Bosnia and Herzegovina has prepared and agreed to work, I would say, this first version of the Law on Regulatory, Transfer and the electricity market and so far has reached a high degree of harmonisation of the gas sector issue that would be part of this legislation. The adoption of the issue, i.e. the National Action Plan for Energy Efficiency and the measure, remains before Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is the issue in progress.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13710	Thank you. Commentary, MP Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13711	I thank the chairman. Of course, I look forward to this information positive, and I hope that we will meet these remaining two obligations, given that this is a condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have access to IPA funds related to energy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And of course, I look forward to it. And I'd only ask the minister if he could, in writing, deliver this answer to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13712	Thank you. Next question, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13713	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. Here it seems best to ask questions to Minister Borovac and Mr Šarović, as they strongly support Parliament's work, i.e. respect the dignity of this House. I'm also asking the Minister of Transport and Communications, but I don't see he's here yet, but I'm still going to ask him and expect an answer in writing. In fact, we could be informed from the media about the intentions of the Republic of Croatia to build the so-called The Peljeski bridge, which would permanently block Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of access to international waters,... and permanently prevent the country's more significant economic development. Since there is no development of industry without sea transport and open sea access due to the development of industry and more significant ship transport, the plans of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of the Pelješko bridge, and thus the closure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have long lasting consequences for the future economic development of our country. I therefore ask questions – On behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is negotiating this issue with the Republic of Croatia, at which stage are these negotiations, what are the technical and commercial conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina being put into negotiations and whether international maritime law experts are involved in the negotiations? I expect the minister to answer to me today, then I could possibly comment. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13714	Thank you. So, is there anyone authorized by the Council of Ministers to answer this question? If you don't, you'll get a chance if the minister shows up by the end of this point to respond, so you can make a comment, if you don't, he'll go in writing. The next question is MP Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13715	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present and media. My question is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mr. Šarović, here I am fortunate that he is present here today. I was planning on asking the question on May 9th of this year, but here's a set of circumstances that didn't allow us to meet and I'm going to ask the question and I get the answer, but luck is still current. I see that yesterday and the Council of Ministers sat down and made certain decisions, and it concerns the adaptation of the agreement on adapting Bosnia and Herzegovina with the EU. Here I was going to say then, how I find out from the source, and the source is media space, attitudes are close, but the last negotiations have been completed without a final agreement. I remind you that... this Agreement is a condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU membership request to be credible. Mr. Minister, I ask you to inform us about the current course of negotiations, which means telling us what our demands were, the European Commission's demands, reach compromises, and when do you expect to reach an agreement? The reason for asking this question is the need for MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly to receive information from the competent ministry running the negotiations, not through written electronic media. Here, it is some of my eternal activity in the direction that Parliament's MPs receive information from officials, when it comes to the Council of Ministers, and not, here by means of media space, it was Electronic or written content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13716	Thank you. Minister Šarović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13717	Thank you. For all these detailed answers, it's a little two minutes real, so I'm gonna watch to be as concrete as possible. First, the negotiations are run not by the ministry, but by the main negotiator, or the negotiating team, which is the basis, means the negotiating position established by the BiH presidency. Negotiations are conducted for three years, so they're not since yesterday. In this last one, the sequel to this phase, there were four rounds, and earlier four rounds. So, together with some 7-8 rounds of negotiations, the negotiations were concluded recently with the exchange of EU and Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign bids. So these are not the negotiations that are classic by offering hands and agreeing offers, but are exchanging the latest offers and then entering into a very complex system, especially in the European Commission, because everything that the Bosnian-Herzegovina side has asked for and has a chance to get it should be approved by EU member states. So if the whole process is to be completed properly, it should end by the end of this year, it means precisely because of this complexity of the whole process. 8 The requirements, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina's bids, are in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's negotiating position. The next steps are to unite these bids into one document and to be initialled by negotiators. So, this is the first step in obtaining the form of this possible agreement, which would be very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the next steps towards the EU, and then, within each side, it would go further, which I would say, in those approximate positions, since this substance is not yet for public use, given that the negotiations and the whole process are not complete. Only after the negotiations can the parties, or especially the European Commission, then be exploited. But from what the Ministry has, with information available to the Ministry, the key in this offer is, for Bosnia and Herzegovina, what is important, unlimited exports of fruits and vegetables, an increase in the sugar quota by 1,200 t, an increase in the quota for use of carp, trout and incune, and that for trout from the existing 60 t to 500 t quota, a carp from the existing quota 60 t to 500 t and anchovies from an existing quota of 30 t to a new quota of 60 t. Also, an increase in wine quota, an existing quota for exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina from 16,000 h to 25,500 hl. Consideration of the quota issue for chicken meat and eggs when Bosnia and Herzegovina meet export conditions, the European Commission's withdrawal from retroactive application from 1 July 2013 when Bosnia and Herzegovina took the obligation to negotiate. Then, accepting more favourable statistics for Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to special milk, because we could choose different statistics, where we chose especially for milk more favourable statistics for 2,500 t, which is 20% of the total amount in circulation. The European Commission also agreed to a three-year phase adjustment for milk and certain meat processing in 3 years, in principle 40% of the adjustment on 01.07.2017, the remaining 2 years at 30%. For other agricultural products, food, long-term phase adjustment since 01.07.2017. Because of the short time I've already broken through, I think, of course, the Ministry and we have other data and details, we can possibly deliver them in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13718	Okay. Because of the importance of the subject and the questions, we've allowed the time to break a little bit. Thank you. Commentary, MP Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13719	The comment is to thank the minister for the information, and I would ask him to give me a full reply in writing, so that I can monitor the ministry's work in the next period.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13720	We now have a Minister of Transport and Communications in the O.R. You've been asked two questions. Do you know what the questions are, can you answer them right now? So the first question to you was from MP Amir Fazlić, and the second question was from Šemsudin Mehmedović, so I ask you to answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13721	Dear Chairman, vice-president, distinguished MPs, MPs, colleagues, media representatives. 9 The first question, related to digitisation, or DVB-T system 2, of the esteemed representative of Amir Fazlić. First of all, I thank you for this question, since this is one of the strategic things at this point, so it would be my pleasure to just give you an answer to this question, so what are the reasons for the transition to DVB-T2. We consider it necessary to remind ourselves that in order to ensure greater quality and capacity of the digital channels package, Multiplexa A, and to create the necessary conditions in the digitalisation process for the introduction of commercial TV stations into digital channels at the same time about the public tv services of the Transport Commission and the links of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives at its 14th session, held on 18.11.2015, proposed the conclusions adopted by the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives at its 22nd session, held on 30.12.2015, which refers to the application of the DVB-T2 standard. In addition, we consider it necessary to point out that DVB-T2 standard is not a replacement for DVB-T standard but rather an upgrade of DVB-T2 standard, and the DVB-T2 stander allows a lower price of the transmission network, a smaller number of emission locations, a larger number of programmes that can be broadcast in one mux, a possibility as a network operator for public TV services in Bosnia and Herzegovina to rent portable and broadcasting capacities to commercial TV stations, and thus achieve financial gains that will ultimately contribute to their financial stability. On the second question – what are the technical reasons for changing standards, we can inform the esteemed representative that the standard DVB-T2 offers new technical and technological solutions and brings the following technical advantages: greater coverage zone, wider selection of... interval, greater data flow, the possibility of providing services to a greater number of users, better protection of symbols, more resistant system compared to interference, better data transfer protection, better... efficiency, and simpler and cheaper synchronisation of all channels. All in all DVB-T2 does not amount to too much material expenditure, so it's just an upgrade to an existing system that hasn't basically revived yet, but here I can inform you that at this point this ministry has started working intensively on implementing this and I hope that we will already have very large results by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13722	Thank you. Commentary, Mr. Fazlić. Wait for the microphone, please turn on the microphone to Mr. Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13723	Well, this new technique can sometimes fail, which is not the case with this new technology that I asked for. So I explained in the opening part of the minister that you were not at the Ministry, that you were not yet at the head of the ministry when the Ministry did this information that was on the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers reached certain conclusions. And based on that, I asked this question. I also, seeing that you are not in the session and knowing of your obligations, and knowing in part in which direction the answer is going, asked for a written reply, because this is really about technical things that most of us MPs may not understand, and I would like to get this answer in writing, so that I can monitor, analyse, consult some people from the profession and possibly post a question afterwards. To be clear, I'm an MP for something new, for something better, and we're all doing it, but here I liked that the Ministry had, so how much does the digitalization process total, this change of standards. I don't think it's enough to say it's not much in terms of bone, if it was necessary to express it numerically in order for us to have a play here, and I'd like some comparison to get in terms of how in the countries of environment, developed countries, which is 10 is technology, what, some comparisons in that sense. However, I am also pleased with this kind of answer and I would like to get it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13724	Thank you, Mr. Fazlić. Ministers, please give an answer to the question of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13725	Representative Mehmedović asked the following questions – who, on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, negotiated the issue of the Peljega Bridge, at which stage negotiations, what technical and commercial conditions Bosnia and Herzegovina had put into negotiations and whether international maritime law experts were involved in the negotiations. I also thank the honourable representative for these questions and the answer to all four questions will be summed up. No negotiations have been held between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the construction of the mainland - Pelješac bridge, but on 19 April 2016, I must point out that I was not a minister at the moment, that my associates prepared this response for me, but I will be free to elaborate it, in Sarajevo a meeting of the delegation of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia. One of the 20 points of the above meeting was the Information on the status of the land bridge building project – Pelješac. The Ministry can inform the distinguished representative of the facts relevant to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is that the Republic of Croatia will build the bridge by the rules of the profession and international regulations relating to such infrastructure projects, which is directly related to all those items which are related to the standards imposed by the EU, which will respect the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, while respecting all technical and international standards relating to the construction of such infrastructure facilities. With regard to the above point of the meeting, it was concluded that the construction of each bridge, including the mainland bridge - Pelješac, should be a matter of the profession and no policy, and that the bridge on the mainland – Pelješac will be built with respect to all prescribed technical and international standards related to the construction of such infrastructure facilities. If a recognised representative prices the required Ministry may submit a detailed minutes with the conclusions of that meeting. The ministry also points out that, in a modest time, it is planned to hold a joint session of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, when this issue is expected to be discussed within the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13726	Thank you, Minister. poslanik Mehmedović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13727	I thank the Honorable Minister for the answer that I am not pleased with, and here's why. Namely, given the width of the Peljega canal and since Bosnia and Herzegovina is not involved in defining technical conditions for building bridges, or the width of pillars, etc., I request that I be supplied with a complete record from that meeting for reasons which seems to offer us only one-way traffic through, under the Peljega Bridge, if built. Given the width of the 11 seas, this is considered the internal territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia, but the Republic of Croatia, not one country in the world, under international maritime law, has the right to block access to the largest overseas ships of any sea country, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am therefore surprised that no one has yet asked the International Maritime Court to define the technical conditions that the Republic of Croatia must respect to allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to have access to the open sea. Because, you know, in a business without international or maritime transport, you don't have a serious business development. And I strongly urge the minister to be more detailed on these issues, since he has almost taken over the mandate, because if a bridge is built that will provide one-way traffic underneath, then it definitely closes Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to open sea access. It's not this road traffic so you can put traffic lights on the bridge so that one number can wait for the other one to pass, etc. [[Employee is warned on time]] So I'd like to ask you to provide me with this detailed information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13728	Thank you. The next question was asked by Dušanka Majkić, who is not present in the hall. I give my word to Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13729	I thank the chairman. The issue was addressed to Bosnia and Herzegovina's finance minister. I remind you that the question has been asked for the needs of a Mayan session, so these terms are what they are. Generally – What is the total amount paid from the Budget of the BiH institutions in the period between 01.01.2016 and 09.05.2016, on behalf of the compensation for the work of the Management Boards, Supervisory Boards, Commissions, and all other working bodies? In addition to this total amount, I ask for information on individual spending for these needs classified by each individual institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given the fact that this is the time for oral parliamentary questions, it is quite fine, dear ministers, to give me an answer for this total figure, and you can deliver these classified amounts to me by written means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13730	Thank you. Minister Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13731	Hello, everyone. Your Honor, Mr. Arnaut's answer. Thus, the total amount paid for this period on behalf of the fees for working on boards is 58,457,17 marks, the total amount paid on behalf of the fees for working on supervisory boards 4.281,21 marks, the funds paid on behalf of commission fees or commissions 154.707,11 marks, on behalf of fees for work in other bodies 99,363,42 marks. So, the sum of the sum paid for all the bodies listed in your question is 316,808,91 marks. As you have asked for an answer on amounts for each institution individually, respecting this shortness of time I have 12 to answer, I will provide you with a written reply in the requested form with a table view across all institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13732	Thank you. poslanik Arnaut, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13733	Thank you. I thank the Honorable Minister, I think it is only correct to say that I am completely satisfied with this answer, not only taking into account the details but taking into account the very obvious savings that are due to the adoption of that Law on Salaries and Receipts, i.e. the suspension of commission fees during working hours, as well as the limitation of the total amount. In the previous year, I received an answer to that question from the Honorable Council of Ministers at that session – the Council of Ministers answers, in the previous year the total amount for fees was 3 million and 126 thousand marks, and here we now have in the first quarter of this year, i.e. the first 4 months of this year we have 316 thousand marks. So, if we use simple mathematics to save about half a million to four months, so for a whole year there will be at least a million and a half marks this year, which shows that I was absolutely right when I pointed out over the whole last year that it would be multimillion, or millions of savings. I'd like to thank the Minister of Finance once again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13734	Thank you. Next to ask questions, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13735	I thank the chairman. Ministers, fellow MPs. A very short question concerning the Council of Ministers, I do not see the Chairmanial Council of Ministers, but my question, however, I will ask, may be someone in charge of answering it. My question is: Has the Council of Ministers of BiH prepared a proposal on how to address the problems of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia in the period '91-'95. years and who have been fired from work, that is, did they open this issue at the ministerial level with the Republic of Croatia, given that we have repeatedly and repeatedly asked this question in 2015 before this House and the Joint Committee on Human Rights, where conclusions have been reached that have never yet been realized? To remind the Council of Ministers, in line with the 95th session, held in 20.05, formed an inter-resor working group on resolving this problem. I'm interested in whether an interresor working group was really formed, what it did, because in the last term, such a working group was formed and there were no results on this issue. To remind me that the Council of Ministers was also at a special session held here, there was a session of both homes, MPs and delegates asking the Council of Ministers at that session on 29th 10th in my mouth, so in his oral response to my asked question, among other things, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, quote -- "In the sixth month of '15. The Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prepare one full information on 13 measures taken so far to resolve the status of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who were employed in Croatia in the period '91-'95. and fired from work," and that when he receives that information, which he expects from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he will then prepare the activities that have been implemented so far, but also more specifically talk about the conclusions and define the models and dynamics of resolving this issue. Since it has been exactly a year here I ask – Is the information requested and what has been done about this very important issue?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13736	Thank you. Since there is no Chairmanial Council of Ministers, is anyone authorized to answer this question? If it isn't I suggest that if the chairman shows up at the end of this agenda we give him a chance to answer, if we don't ask it as a written question. The next is Ambassador Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13737	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My question goes to the Minister of Finance – At what stage is the Law on availability, use and management of state property and the Restitution Act? So, almost a month ago, we were asking questions a month ago, but we know that there was no transmission, we're informed from the media that the Commission's work to resuscitate on the use of state property, which actually has state property in an ad hoc way, might have been unrecognizable, without legally established criteria, principles and possibly sanctions for non-compliance with them. I think it's about time and it's necessary that we have this area governed by law, so here's my question to the minister – where they came from and do they think about doing something about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13738	Thank you. Minister Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13739	Say hello to everyone again. Although the address is not exactly the Ministry of Finance for this, I will answer both questions in front of the Council of Ministers. So the first question was the Law on Use and Management of State Property, it seems to me that Mr. Bećirović referred this question to another address, but there is no connection, I guess this will be a satisfactory answer. So, the Council of Ministers formed a Committee of State Property Management and the Committee of State Property from establishment to date has prepared several bill proposals, but none of them were in favour of its passing. The latest draft law in the past Council of Ministers' meeting prepared a working group appointed by the Council of Ministers: Mr Čolak, Mr Nović and Mr Damir Hadžić. Immediately after delivery, they made a bill, delivered it to the Council of Ministers for consideration, agreed, and at the request of Mr Hadžić, the law was withdrawn from the procedure because there was no further political will on the part. It is also true that, in accordance with the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury has the power to manage assets owned by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also without the legal framework adopted, this jurisdiction simply cannot be implemented. 14 The Council of Ministers in this Chamber, held on 13 April 2016 at its 52nd session, discussed the Information of the Committee on State Property, which contained everything about this issue. At that time, we reached the conclusion that we had tasked the Ministry of Justice to propose amendments to the Decision replacing the members of the Committee, given that most... members no longer work in the institutions that have delegated them. I expect this at one of the next sessions. We have also reached a conclusion asking the new Commission to continue its activities in the adoption of the Law on State Property. As far as the second Restitution Act is concerned, the last time this Law was drawn up was also current in the last term. At that time, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, a task force was formed to prepare and to submit to the Council of Ministers within 60 days to discuss the draft law on... and restitution. The Council of Ministers also established the bill, it was forwarded to the Parliamentary Assembly, but the proposal did not receive the necessary majority in parliament. There were several attempts to make this Law but there was no agreement on the proposed text. This is an important issue, especially given that we have ratified agreements with the Holy See and the Serbian Orthodox Church that have obliged us to pass the Law on restitution and religious communities to return or compensate for the property that has been taken from them. I am sure that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the relevant departments, will offer to consider quality legal solutions. Normally, the adoption of the same will requires political will, both in the Council of Ministers and in Parliament. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13740	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13741	Thank you very much, Minister for Answering. Of course, for these two laws there are good or significant powers and the Ministry of Justice. And I further thank the minister for making an effort to make comprehensive answers for both of us, both for one law and for another. In fact, just a lot of things in Bosnia and Herzegovina don't go any slower, or it goes hard, and so does this area of state property and restitution, and I just think it's worth trying to go back to the lawmaking process and their offer to Parliament. This is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina and one day your laws will have to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13742	Thank you. The next MP is Momčilo Novaković, but he is not present. That's why I give the word to Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13743	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 15 So my question is the Chairman of the Zvizdić. I have repeatedly asked a question like this or similar, here he is today, but since this part of this issue is related to the current situation and negotiations with the IMF, perhaps the vice-president, the finance minister, can answer as well. So – What does the Council of Ministers of BiH specifically do to create a pathway to preventing the negative trend of leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina and the employment of young people, which are concrete measures and how much exactly is planned for this area through proposals proposed by the Bosnian Herzegovina side in negotiations with the IMF in the process of seeking a new loan from this institution? Mr. Chairman, therefore, as I said earlier, I have repeatedly initiated this debate so far and I really think that we as Parliament and as a state must deal with these issues. And that's why for me, I have to say disappointingly that you and I have refused to call that session, I have initiated to call a special session where we would have this issue on the agenda, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers delivers one whole piece of information about it and that we are really dealing with what real interests are, is the real problem of people in this country. That's why I'm going to initiate again, so let's call it, if we can't have a joint session, then at least a session of this House where I'm here and I'm an MP. In 2014, I'll repeat again, 68 thousand people left Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2015. 80,000, we have a trend to increase, each year the number of people leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina increases. And that's why I think, this turns out to be, therefore, the authorities, as if the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina were interested in leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we stick our head in the sand, we don't want to discuss this, we put it aside, so we're making up other priorities, then it really turns out to be an interest that people are leaving this country. That's why I want to hear, here today, so when we don't have a chance to find out what the content of these, this text that we have in negotiations with the IMF on new debt – how much funds and what exactly is planned in this new job, especially young people? Because to me, it would only make sense to take credit. If we are to invest this loan to stop this departure of people, to create new jobs and create a perspective in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we should be in debt. So everything else, in my opinion, is completely wrong. And that's why I expect today to get both an answer and an explanation and that we have this agenda point and this debate that I just mentioned here at the House of Representatives session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13744	Thank you. Since you mentioned us to tell you, everything that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and procedure, including that point, and a special session will be organised in accordance with the word. Is anyone authorized, since the question has been addressed to the chairman who is not present? No one's authorized. So if the chairman shows up to the end of the point, we'll ask him to give an answer, if we don't propose in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13745	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13746	No, I don't. Okay. Next up is Mirsad Đonlagić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13747	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. I have sent my parliamentary question to Mr. Civil Affairs Minister Adil Osmanović, and this is about the problem of applying graduate and master studies in the process of implementing the Bologna Process. Since I have been very often able to talk about issues in higher education, here I once again want to appeal to all of us to listen carefully to this, and if we can, and it would be good to intervene on this matter. So recent events with equality, i.e. the equalisation of graduates and masters, have convinced us once again of the chaotic state of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I would like to point out that at some universities as a postgraduate study, they are still treating a one-year master study, and according to the Bologna principles, the postgraduate judge is essentially a doctoral study, because the first diploma is a master's degree which is issued and after the first cycle is completed, which is this three-year cycle, a certificate of the completed cycle is issued, not a diploma, and we still have diplomas. Of course, I stress this because in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the diploma is issued after the first cycle, as I said. This equalization of studies in an unequal position brings those who were forced to study a one-year master study defined as a post-plom study, which is nature but wrong, and therefore they had to pay at least 7,000 marks, and in some cases significantly more, which is another additional dimension that really sheds a very suspicious light on this problem. These problems are only part of the problem, as I said, which rules in higher education. I am interested – Does the Ministry of Civil Affairs intend to intervene on this matter and what does it intend to do? I note that this Parliament has adopted the Framework Law on Higher Education, the National Qualifications Framework has been adopted, and, above all, it is necessary to take care of... standards when adopting a competitive solution that will really not be easy because, in the past 15 years, these problems have agreed so much that it may be difficult to find an objective solution. And what's to be taken care of here? It must be taken into account that... making a decision those who have been forced to pay for a post-graduate study or a one-year master's study are not being brought into an unequal position. This may be one of the solutions that this evaluation applies only to continuing studies at the doctoral study. But in any case, our education is becoming more and more a problem than what is being established as a system of higher education, which is to ensure the development and functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina and young people in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13748	Thank you. The minister is not here, but the deputy minister, Mr. Milićević, is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13749	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13750	Well, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13751	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament. 17 Dear Mr. Đonlagić, allow me to, on behalf of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, see also as Deputy Minister in my personal name, try to give you some idea of the current current Framework Law that exists at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and from the aspect of the co-ordinating and restrictive roles of the Ministry of Civil Affairs I try to give you an answer to this complex issue, but also one complex problem which is the problem of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the competent and entity and cantonal ministries. So, as you know by the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, higher education is organised in three cycles – undergraduate studies, graduate studies and third postgraduate studies. Depending on the length of this first cycle, whether it lasts for three or four years, with 180, or 240 ECTS points, the second cycle, which you're talking about, lasts one or two years, depending on whether the first one lasts three or four years. So in the sum of the first and second cycles they have to carry a total of 300 ECTS points towards the Bologna Process. The obligation of the competent educational institutions is for the authorities to in their own, to comply with their own laws with the current Framework Law, and for higher education institutions to organise studies according to the provisions of the Framework Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to information that we at the Ministry of Civil Affairs have at our disposal the laws of the competent educational authorities define the organisation of higher education also in these three cycles and the application of the European ECTS Points Transfer System in the way the Framework Law provides. According to the above-mentioned Master's degree in studies as a postgraduate study, and yet as a condition for enrolment in doctoral studies, according to your question, it is contrary to the organisation of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The framework law also defined one more thing, that persons who acquired certain scientific and professional calls prior to the transition to this Bologna Process,... with valid regulations, can ask the higher education institution where they have acquired these titles to issue documents in the procedure and under the conditions provided for by the Statute of the Higher School Institute – a certificate or a diploma of equivalence before the academic title acquired. Since 2008, the process of equivalence of pre-bolonic pre-bolonic titles has sought to be established through provisions, and this is very important, the Regulation on the use of academic titles, and the acquisition of scientific and professional titles whose adoption is defined by the Framework Law applicable in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and in the last term, and also in this conference, therefore uses all its possible, I say, limiting capacities to coordinate the different opinions of the competent entity bodies to bring in a rulebook like this. In view of the organisation of education and constitutional competence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Civil Affairs remains in this position that it is necessary to adopt this Regulation as well as the equivalence procedure itself should be a single definition of all competent educational authorities and academic communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be achieved in the coming period. I note that in the previous period it was not possible to reach a consensus between the competent educational authorities and the academic community, and the regulation on this has not yet been adopted. For the past month and a half, both the minister and I as deputy minister have made every effort to try to make a step in this direction, together with the entity ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13752	Thank you. Mr. Đonlagić, you have the right to comment. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13753	Of course, this answer confirms that the situation is, in my opinion, dramatic. Inadmissible discrimination is evident in these cases of equalisation of diplomas. One of them was forced to go to the master's office, they paid 7 or 9,000 marks, the other wanted equivalence, and they got it without the dinars. So that's inadmissible. The system needs to be designed, so the longer the problem gets, the more complex it gets. I know it's not the most important problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this is a question that will very much hurt us, from which we will very much have a head in the future. It is unacceptable that this, regardless of the level of responsibility and competence involved, when it comes to higher education, these views are totally inadmissible and I think that, regardless of the competences that the Ministry of Civil Affairs does not have, it must be more aggressive towards all levels of education, that the basic principles of the Bologna process must be respected, and ultimately to take care of fair results and fair relations when it comes to applying these equivalences. This is inadmissible. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13754	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13755	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to ask the Council of Ministers one question on such an important topic that a spear was broken here in Parliament in the last term, and today the almost forgotten question concerns the state aid system. And my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads – What has been done so far on the implementation of the Law on the State Aid System in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are there problems in the implementation of that Law, and if there are those, and what is the plan for further implementation of the State Aid System Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina? It is, therefore, a very important, very important law that interferes with the spheres of economic..., economic liberalism, which should put the market economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina on these European foundations, European standards. If today no one from the Council of Ministers, and you have, Minister Šarović, in any case, here's a brief answer, but give me one written answer, one information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13756	Thank you. Ministar Šarović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13757	Thank you. This question came up this morning so there may not be all the details in the answer, we'll give it in writing. Perhaps the shortest I can say is that the State Aid System Act is implemented and implemented. If I were to be precise, I'd say it's being implemented slowly, slower, but it's still being implemented. The Council for State Aid has been formed and the Secretariat of Councils with staff, 19 or so civil servants has their own programme and plan on an annual basis, and key sublegal acts following the implementation of the Law over the past two years have been adopted. So far, 24 concrete solutions have been made at the request of the state aid provider, so those who have addressed the State Aid Council. Due to this implementation and the beginning of the functioning of this institution, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been removed from this so-called "Bosna" and "Herzegovina". Lists of open issues in October 2015, as I said in one of the earlier answers to the question. There are problems in,... the basic problem is about financing the Council and the State Aid Secretariat. As you know by law, the Secretariat and the Council are funded by 1/3 of the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the budgets of the two entities. Republika Srpska does not pay the full amount to the institution's budget, so 40,000 KM is planned for 2016, and the obligation is 140,000. And that's the problem we'll be sure of in this past period. The future plans relate to the full completion of human resources, training, the continued adaptation of the Law to European regulations, the adaptation to Aki, and the adoption of remaining regulatory, decision-making and sublegal acts. So, he's waiting for us, we're about to change and supplement this law to comply with European standards, and that's... probably recently.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13758	Thank you. Mr. Džaferović also asked for an answer in writing. MP Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13759	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the chair, honourable MPs, MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers and the media. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Security – When will the BiH Ministry of Security develop a multidisciplinary and comprehensive strategy on trafficking in people who are mainly needed and must be based on improving co-operation between police and prosecutors, data exchange and investigations to ensure access to victims of human trafficking? From the 2015 Progress Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, we know that the European Commission is asking Bosnia and Herzegovina to do the strategy in question. I know that the Action Plan against trafficking in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 2016 to 2019, adopted by the Council of Ministers in 30.12.2015 and on the proposal of the Ministry of Security, which aims to improve the system of support for the fight against human trafficking in Bosnia and Herzegovina, inefficient prosecution of human trafficking and related crimes, to prevent trafficking in people from reducing risk and effective protection and assistance to victims of human trafficking, and to strengthen partnership and co-operation between actors involved in countering human trafficking. Making sure that it was 30.12.205. I ask the Ministry of Security – What have they done about the development of the strategy in question, which is our lagging obligation, and the request of the European Commission, so from the 2015 report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress? I note that it is very important to say that human trafficking is a monster of modern times, that in times of the greatest migrant crisis ever remembered in the history of the world this object is very important to regulate legally and ask the Ministry of Security – What they have done in this field in the past six months. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13760	Thank you. This is Deputy Minister of Security, Mr. Krešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13761	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. When it comes to the anti-trafficking strategy, we have, therefore, done a strategy to fight organised crime, all forms of organised crime and action plans for certain types of organised crime, including human trafficking, clearly and precisely defined what it is that certain institutions, in which direction they should take. So the strategy for fighting organised crime is in force and we understand what seriousness is, meaning the crimes of organised crime in human trafficking and in this direction, so through the Action Plan all agencies have defined their responsibilities. After the end of this Strategy for the fight against organised crime, we will determine whether we will work a special strategy for each of the forms of organised crime. I don't think that, given that organised crime at this level is seen as a whole, so with these different forms of phenomena, from economic, human trafficking, illegal trade and everything that covers this segment of ortganized crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13762	Thank you. poslanica Kapetanović, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13763	I note again that the European Commission is warning Bosnia and Herzegovina that the 2013-2015 Strategy has ceased to apply. The European Commission, too very often at all international sessions... parliamentarians and MPs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, notes that human trafficking is the most brutal form of modern slavery and that victims of human trafficking are exposed to long-term exploitation, violence, inhumane and destructive behaviour, which we were able to see particularly in the case of the migrant crisis. I still expect us to respond to the European Commission's request, for the space of reason, because it is one of the conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And yet highly esteemed for all the efforts you have made so far, and for which you are beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina are praised in the work so far, but I ask that this strategy be done so that we, in the context of this bar of light face, in the context of the protection of human rights, can go before our European negotiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13764	Thank you. We ended up asking oral questions. The one we didn't get an answer to will be asked for a written statement. Now we're moving on to the session agenda. As for the changes and additions to the agenda, I would like to point out, from the agenda you get are downloaded: 21 Point 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Željko Komšić, Law No: 01-02-1-305/16, since 04.05.2016, because the Proposer withdrew the bill from the parliamentary procedure. Point 17. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2015 – submiter: State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-150/16, from 19.05.2016 due to the inability of the applicant to attend the House Report. Point 18. Information on the state of security in BiH for 2015 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, number: 01,02-04-1339/16, from 06/05/2016 at the request of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The following are added to the agenda: point 16. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, due to the change of parliamentary majority – Proposer: College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Act No: 01-50-1-1384-1/16, since 14.06.2016. Point 17. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Act No: 01-50-1-1384-2/16, since 14.06.2016. They are complemented: Point 7 which now reads: Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 18.03.2016. These updated points 8. Proposal for a Framework Law on the Treatment of Infertility Biomedical Supported Fertility – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality, Act No: 01-02-1-882/16, since 17/03/2016. Point 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: MP Damir Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1303/16, from 04.05.2016. Point 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1304/16, from 04.05.2016. with the Constitutional Commission's opinion. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13765	Mr. Chairman, the House of Representatives has 42 MPs, currently there are about 25 MPs in the room, four more MPs if they leave the room today, we will be left without a quorum. On the other hand, we have been informed that an entire club, the second largest club in this House, is simply not coming to the session. I think it is my duty here in Parliament to point out that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is, the Honorable Chairman, a violation of Article 7. Rules of Procedure, Articles 10 and 12. Rules of Procedure. Article 7 states, among other things, that the MP has duties laid down by the Constitution, 22 by law, by code and by the Rules of Procedure. Article 7 says the MP has the duty to attend the session, Article 10 says the MP is fulfilling his duties here in Parliament, Article 12 says the MP has the right to work-law status, especially those who are professionally employed here to be in his post. People just don't come. In such a situation, and I repeat, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I call on you as chairman to publicly conclude that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that as chairman of the College, you take steps to complete some internal acts as soon as possible, so that when MPs do not come to their posts, if two sessions are in the month as in this case, they do not come to one, so half of the sessions, that 50% of them receive less pay and less income in Parliament. Otherwise, we question the dignity of both Parliament and these MPs who come to the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13766	So, the Human Rights Commission needs to take care of the Code of Conduct and we're going to delegate this thing that you said to the Human Rights Commission to make a statement about any proposals, how and whether or not to change the Rules of Procedure or any other act that would define such situations. Under the present state of affairs, there is no possibility of any sanctions. Therefore, there is no question about the work of this session because there are conditions, there is a quorum. Denis Bećirović, the breach of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13767	I would once again like to make it very clear that our Rules of Procedure is clear and that we already have all the preconditions and you in the College to read against this situation where we are at the moment. I do not think it is quite wise to delegate this issue to the Commission for Human Rights, because the Commission for Human Rights should take care of the human rights of all citizens of this country and not just the MPs. Imagine, Mr. Chairman, that today some miner in Bosnia and Herzegovina says - I don't want to go to a mine, I don't like the daily schedule, or some doctor says - I don't like the schedule, or some farmer doesn't want to go to the field because of the weather forecast. I mean, that's impossible. This is a matter of protecting the integrity of this House. And I urge you again to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13768	Thank you. We work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Lovrinović, corrected the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13769	Good day to you. Mr. Chairman, I welcome you and your colleagues and all of us present here in this House. I just wanted to if, I think I heard correctly, that you didn't read with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, for the 10th time, just to supplement that.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13770	It may be here when it was read you forgot, it was placed in a package of points 8, 9 and 10, and then finally it was said with an opinion. Here, so all three points are with the opinion of the commission. The next is Sadik Ahmetović, a discussion. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13771	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I wanted to propose a new item of the agenda, but I know in principle that these topics I would suggest would not receive the support of at least one part of this Parliament, and this could not have some final result in discussing it and making quality conclusions, and as regards children, Bosniak children in Republika Srpska who are not attending the end of the school year these days and whose enrolment in high school or colleges is at stake because of the discrimination that occurs continuously in Republika Srpska. So I think that this is a more current question than any of the issues that we have here on the agenda today, and the names come to me to get out of this Parliament and leave it today and only in such a way to express my protest that we are not doing anything to try to solve this issue in our country. So, I have no proposal because I know that it will raise some questions here and that it will not get support, but I also think that the College of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers must and should resolve this issue. If it doesn't solve these questions, these other questions that we have here today don't make sense, none of this question makes sense, it really doesn't make sense. So, we're here to discuss an action where it was arrested, so another discrimination where Bošnjak in Republika Srpska were made terrorists so they were arrested for one day I don't know how many, and 15 days ago the special prosecutor's office in Banja Luka says there's no basis for launching an investigation. And after that, you don't have a debate. Now we have children. What are we gonna have tomorrow? So everybody's quiet in this country, so we keep quiet, keep quiet to those who are watching us, I usually say those on the right side of the international community, and they're no longer allowed by Milorad Dodik and his government to ask him anything, fear him, and we won't, or we don't have a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13772	There are no more applications to discuss the agenda. I find that the 31st session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 30th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities by Emergency Procedure, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1567/16, of 27.05.2016; 4. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in dual-use goods – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-748/16, of 04.03.2016 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-752/16, of 04.03.2016 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Law No Gasal-Vražalica, from 03.03.2016 (second reading); 7. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on a Prosecution Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, of 18.03.2016; 24 8. Proposal for a Framework Law on the Treatment of Infertility Biomedical Supported Fertility – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality, Act No: 01- 02-1-882/16, of 17 March 2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1303/16, from 04.05.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1304/16, from 04.05.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1417/16, since 13/05.2016 (first reading); 12. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16, of 04.03.2016 (Law in Second Reading); 13. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-929/16, of 21 March2016); 14. Commission report to the Kolegijum on the effort to reach agreement on Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2015, act No: 01-09-1205/16, since 21/04/2016; 15. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 27 April 2016, which reads: "The PSBiH House of Representatives calls on the competent authorities of Mostar City to eliminate inappropriate street names in Mostar, which bear the names of fascist NDH officials Mile Budak, Jure Francetić, Ante Vokić and Mladen Lorković", act No 01-50-1254/16; 16. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, due to the change of parliamentary majority – Proposer: College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Act No: 01-50-1-1384-1/16, since 14.06.2016; 17. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Act No: 01-50-1-1384-2/16, since 14.06.2016; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Anti-Criminal Co-operation, No. 01,02-05-2-1420/16, from 16.05.2016. (Determined statement at the 30th session, held on 24.05.2016). We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 30th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. Any objections? No objections. 25 Moving to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13775	I thank the distinguished foreign trade and economic relations minister for providing me with a written reply, but this response arrived to me in good time at that 14th session of the House of Representatives. It is not clear to me that Mr. Minister of Justice who is present today is reminded of the business provisions. So on 1603, three months ago, I addressed a written question to the respected Justice Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To this day, I have received no answer. I have called, in accordance with the sessions that preceded, for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to be delivered to me, for the College to urinate, which you have seen and done from some documents. However, I am calling today on Article 171. The Rules of Procedure which states that the reply in writing must be given within 30 days. So, three months passed, I didn't get an answer. Stavak (3) says – if the Council of Ministers of BiH, or its member, is a respected minister of justice who today has honored us with his presence, if he cannot give an answer within the scheduled time period, he is obliged to inform the representative of the reasons for which he is unable to do so by means of the President of the House. Since Mr. Minister is present today, I invite him to give me an answer as to why three months does not answer my question, which I referred to on 16 March 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13776	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13777	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 26 So, I did get an answer from Republika Srpska's TV, but the question I asked concerns the implementation of the Law on Editing and Broadcasting of Programmes in Official Languages used in Bosnia and Herzegovina did not come from the Federal Television, which I also set up BHRT. I, of course, thank the gentlemen of the Croatian Republic, am not satisfied with the answer, but I am not going to comment on it now, and I am waiting for these two, and then I will, as a whole. Here, I'll see what they've answered. On the other hand, I use the opportunity to welcome the BiH Prosecutor's Office and remind them that I still exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13778	Thank you. There are no more registered MPs for comments on the answers received. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities by Emergency Procedure, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1567/16, of 27.05.2016. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. Since this is a law proposed by emergency procedure, may I point out that we are first discussing and voting on the urgency of the procedure after the earlier decision. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. There are no reports. I'm voting an emergency procedure for the proposed law. For 26, there are no, abstentions 8. There is a general and entity majority, and I find that an emergency procedure has been adopted. We're moving on to a debate on the bill. There's no record of a hearing. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in dual-use goods – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-748/16, of 04.03.2016 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, I think, last time there was a first reading of these two laws, spoke of the fact that in Croatian terms it could not be in the title of "control" but "control". However, I was given an explanation at that time that this was the way that it came out from the promoter. I call on the lecturers to check it again, so it can only be "control" in Croatian because it's on the screen here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13783	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Law No Gasal-Vražalica, from 03.03.2016 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the follow-up of the 28th session of the House, held on 11.05.2016. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the bill was removed from the agenda last session of the House. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered 14/06/2016. The bill's proposal report. The Commission adopted the draft law. On 14 June 2016, Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović submitted to the procedure a proposal for an amendment to defend it at the plenary stage, in accordance with Article 124(2). I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13785	Thank you. So, you yourself said that I would defend, whether, the amendment that I have filed and the Constitutional Commission, was not accepted, by having now been slightly amended by my colleagues in the Constitutional Commission, so I threw out the introduction of official newspapers in the first draft amendment that was on the Constitutional Law, and now it's without it, so here I am hoping you'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13786	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13787	So I am my position on the proposal made up by my colleague, Gasal, also said by first reading, of course I am still standing at that point of view. And here's just to tell you how many, what problems, I've talked a lot about problems when it comes to sports, but let me tell you one of the absurdities that, which is evident, which everyone can find out who's interested in. It's about two great players, who played for a team of the former state, who have, as I would say, a category of well-deserved sports masters or what they call it, one lives in Banja Luka, one lives in Tuzla. They also won one and two silver Olympic medals, a silver medal from the world championship, a silver medal from the European championship, with this player living in Tuzla winning another free gold medal for Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Mediterranean Games in Montpellier. To make things very strange, this dancer, this sportswoman from Tuzla has a pension, here's to say, I don't say how much she is, she's one, and this one in Banja Luka has three, is she determined to receive from the Republika Srpska entity that pension, and this one has become obsessed with receiving it from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I don't want to mention that it's completely messy, it's not worth anything for years. Now, according to the new Regulation proposal, this should be treated in Serbia, for example, to which the Regulation will be bound in Republika Srpska for 45 years, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina it is proposed for 65 years. So it's something that suggests completely, to say one, vague thing, vague principles, vague approaches, and it's not good for athletes who, as such, give maximum of themselves in years when others can devote themselves to other jobs and occupations. If my colleagues, I invite everyone, if they think it's good and this kind of bill, and I don't think it's good, is it essentially nothing to change, I invite you all to work either in clubs or in state alliances so that you can see what the problems are and that we all try together to make one more quality law that will treat what, more seriously, what I would say, sports results and athletes who separate their share, a good part of life to deal with sports and ultimately affirmed this country. It's one absurd thing, and here I think there are still facts that I could bring forth countless, but I'm appealing to all of us to commit a little more seriously to this matter than to this, as I would say, corrections that essentially contribute nothing to improving the quality of this one text of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13788	Okay, thank you. 29 Since we will have today and the continuation of the emergency session, the College has agreed to limit the discussion to five minutes from now. Correction of the false allegation, MP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13789	I thank the chairman. I thank Mr Mirsad Đonlagić, who whenever this or such a similar proposal was in the process, he advertised himself in a way that he certainly knows about sports and as a longtime member, I would say, the Basketball Alliance, if I am not mistaken, and he is very familiar with the state of sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am glad that Mr Mirsad Đonlagić, that today you have listed two women who are discriminated about in exactly the same way that I am talking about, and on the other hand, you were somehow yourself contradictors, because you said that this essentially doesn't change anything. I remind you that and how it changes, that you may have a little bit more analyzed what is proposed in the amendment and supplementation of the Law itself, and that you may have shared that information with your esteemed colleague Mirsada Isaković, who is the chairman of the Commission, and who is invited and professionally aware of whether, with gender-responsible budgeting, you would know that this law strongly calls for an amendment in this context that women who are very much giving their contribution to sports are not adequately evaluated, that the budgets that, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are linearly and thus programmed, do not give the women they give to men, that border funds are set aside for men, not for women and the like that, so that I invite you, before you say that nothing really changes, perhaps with some information you will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13790	Thank you. Discussion, MP Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13791	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the ministers, or members of the Council of Ministers, guests, journalists who very often carry none of what I say, but absolutely nothing, which is quite all right, gives me a space for further work and, of course, my colleagues here present. The last time we talked about this Law, I supported it, and if you can remember, you have a stenogram, suggested that it go into full change to the Sport Act. And my colleague is now part of what I was saying, my former colleague, the debater, from what I was saying. I don't plead to be interested, I don't plead to be directly interested, but I plead to find a way for these people who are better than any of us here, as they say, with face, much honor, a lot of hard work, to present themselves. I've recently had a chance to communicate with people in Canada, not that they don't know three of our members of the presidency, not that they don't know entity, not that they don't know, but believe me, Amel tući, everyone knows. Amel Tuka shall go away in the morning without bread, and they shall know him in that far-off Canada, and not only him they shall ask about Delibašić, but they shall ask about him, and they shall ask about him, but none of us, very interesting. _________(?) 30 [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13794	Thank you. No more logged in for this agenda item. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on a Prosecution Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, since 18.03.2016 (second reading) The draft law adopted in the first reading at the 27th session of the House, held on 05.04.2016, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the draft law was removed from the agenda last session, 31 of the House College set a deadline of 20 days for the submission of a new report. On 14 June 2016, the Constitutional Legal Commission again requested the extension of the deadline for the submission of the report, the position of the College is to approve, in accordance with the Commission's request, the extension of the deadline for the new report by 30 days. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13796	There's no argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13797	There isn't. We're going to the eighth point of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Framework Law on the Treatment of Infertility Biomedical Supported Fertility – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality, Act No: 01-02-1-882/16, of 17 March 2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission Last session of the House did not accept the negative Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Consistency of the Proposal for a Law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system and the principles of the bill, and the Commission was tasked with drawing up a new opinion on the proposed Law in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered Opinion 14/06/2016. The Commission did not agree with the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system and did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13799	I thank the chairman. Of course, this is the second time in this Parliament that I am speaking about this point of the agenda, but I would like to say that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law has been found in Article 2(3) where we are talking about the establishment of a family. I would like to say here several acts, namely documents which Bosnia and Herzegovina has accepted from international institutions to carry out, but in this case, in this case, in the case of this Law, obviously, we are not. From the point of view of meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's international obligations, I will first and foremost highlight the commitments made by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to ensure the consistency of certain legal solutions with the following acts of the European Parliament and of the Council since 31 March 2004, hence the "Official Journal" of 07.04.2004, Commission Directive of 08 March 2006, the "Official Journal" of 09.02.2006, also the Commission Directive, from 2006, "Official Journal" 25.10.2006. I would also like to point out here that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator and certain conventions, such as the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in application of biology and medicine, signed in 1612/2005, and thus ratified this Parliament on 11/05/2007. So, second, the second document is the Additional Protocol on the Convention, which was ratified in the same way, in this Parliament on 11/05/2007 and the third is the Additional Protocol on this Convention, so which this Parliament also ratified on 09.04.2015. We see from all of this that Bosnia and 32 Herzegovina has accepted, therefore, all obligations, international obligations in order for this and such laws to be agreed. However, the constitutional basis was not found, the commission voted 5:4 yesterday, and I think it is indeed a big mistake. What I would like to point out is that 17% of the young couples in Bosnia and Herzegovina expect us to pass such laws and such laws, in order, of course, to give the right to family formation, what the Constitution has made possible, is in its Article III position (2). However, in this decision, I believe that the Constitutional Commission does not comply with certain documents signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I want to point out is that it is evident that there are institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or clinics dealing with this medical fertilisation, but I do not know what laws they are dealing with, but here we see that it is obvious that someone is responsible for such laws not being in place. So we see that both in Sarajevo and in Zenica and Banja Luka and anywhere else these clinics are increasingly doing this job beyond legal regulations and beyond. I would still like to point out here that this law, the Framework Law, does not enter into the jurisdiction of the entity, because what I should define here is just the jurisdiction to keep data, the records of these donors and, of course, cases that are negative, or positive, so that's the part that I think about the Framework Law, so it shouldn't. How much of this law is Benigan telling the best information that this Law does not even contain criminal provisions, so we just wanted to regulate that it should be on top of the highest standards, to protect users and benefit citizens under this law. Here, thank you, me so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13800	Thank you, sir. Uh, I thought you were going to do something else about the procedure or something, because this is another negative opinion and it's stopping any further proceedings on this law and it shouldn't be a debate. It will therefore be a vote on it, but because of the second rejection of the Constitutional Legal Commission, however the vote becomes, this law is removed from the procedure and we have already discussed it twice, or discussed it in Parliament. That's why there's no further discussion, as well as the next two points. Sir, come on Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13801	Oh, come on. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13802	I get it, but this one, of course, we're going to keep this law trying to let go of the procedure in some legal period that
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13803	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13804	That's what makes it possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13805	It's yours, it's yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13806	Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13807	We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: MP Damir Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1303/16, from 04.05.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission Last session of the House did not accept the negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the conformity of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, and the Commission is responsible for drawing up a new opinion on the proposed law in accordance with Article 113(3). The Commission for Finance and Budget submitted its opinion on 14/06/2016, the Commission adopted the principles of the Proposal for a Law, the Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 14/06/2016. The Commission has not established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. This is the same case as the previous law, so the second time it is rejected on the Constitutional Commission and this law will be removed from further proceedings. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1304/16, from 04.05.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm insisting that I don't think there's any need for this for a while, but here it seems in vain given the strength of the words I say, I'm sorry. First of all, I don't think there's any reason for this to be passed, that Article 18 of the current Law still has the possibility of charging a TV fee in a way that the Management Board does, but obviously we're playing with deaf phones. In addition, this time I will only draw attention to the fact that, therefore, the colleagues who have proposed this Act Article 16a) who are proposing to be added actually deny Article 18. So, the fund category is now being introduced here, and the provisions of Article 18 remain in which Federal Television and Republika Srpska Television collects a TV subscription. So this extra confusion per se brings me in. However, in order for us to no longer be exhausted, I simply have no choice but to read, to read, therefore, the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, Article 36(2) which states – the bill for the provision of energy delivery provided for in Article 35 of this Law - telecommunications, communal and other services to RTV and similar, in brackets, the consumer must be provided separately for each service. So this is against this, the provisions of this law. The second thing, so Article 18, is that there is simply nothing left but for the sake of the public and for the sake of us here and it is not clear to me, I am not of this profession, but that we simply choke on what is already in the article 18. The manner in which the tv fee is charged shall be determined and established by the Committee of the Systems. It is still worked out, as I said, in paragraphs (2), (3) and (4). And in Article 22, it is said that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH decides on the amount of the RTV fee within 30 days of the date of submission of the proposal of the Regulatory Agency, the amount of the TV fee from the previous year shall be valid until the new decision on the RTV tax is effective. So, the only thing we here... of course we can change the law to proposals, of course it's legitimate, but I'm still saying that this is unnecessary, we're just bringing in extra funk. We have formed an Interresor Working Group, we need to discuss afterwards the application of the law in force here in Parliament and the adoption of a comprehensive solution, but obviously, this, uh, we are simply deafening ourselves about it, just moving from month to month, from 6 months to 6 months, we are entering into changes to the final provisions that have long ceased to apply, but I think this is not a solution and that this will not take any solution, nothing will change. It's simple, therefore, now it's going to be the situation that this database is going to be and what's going to go through the billing of federal television and how it's going to go so far, the RTRS, or the telecom operator, and what it's going to do over cable TV, how it's going to even match that record, whether somebody's going to pay for it twice from cable and from those who've been paying for it. So, I don't know, I know why it's done, why we don't just sit down and talk about this in a thorough way and settle it once definitely... question. And of course I'm not going to support this, so this is the solution and I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13812	Thank you. Ambassador Amir Fazlić. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13813	Well, here's an esteemed colleague and an esteemed chairman as one of the promoters on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, I can say that this law has on the contrary come as a need to temporarily edit this system, because because of the system's disorientation and waiting for the System's Board of Directors to solve this situation the way it is. We have a situation that the Board of Directors of BHRT is making a decision on the suspension of the programme, we have a situation that unions react, we have a situation that the dissatisfaction of citizens, we have a situation to ask whether some important projects will be transferred to Bosnia and Herzegovina from the European championship and other things, and we have a situation that the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is quite upset about this, because of these developments. And we're coming into a situation so that we may be the only country in the world, in Europe, and we still don't have our own state television. By doing so, we have proposed this Law, and our aim was to propose it in a regular procedure to enable all colleagues and all interested people through the amendment phase, and we are prepared as promoters to accept every good solution, possibly to fix this. Very often, we discussed on the commission that, that, if we had formed an Interresor Working Group, I must say that I was one of the committee's proposings to form an Interresor Group, but only for the reason that it was seen why the existing legal solution was not applied, and for the reason that future legal solutions that we come to would not experience the same fate that we come to this stage as it is because of non-implementation. The basic principles of this Law are all known to us, meaning collecting income through telecom operators and cable operators, with the possibility of forming funds. We said with the possibility of forming funds that would be in another phase, because we are aware that a series of other laws should be amended. Po, those data I have from the Communications Regulatory Agency, which can be checked and which we can ask for somewhere, ask them to be officially delivered to us, somewhere around 330,000 households use cable TV and normally that the system needs to be arranged. So, we are ready to accept certain amendments here, we think it would be good today to pass this law in the first phase, and until the second phase until the final adoption we sit through the Commission and if they have colleagues' comments we see what these remarks are and we just get to what Col. Lovrinović said, an even more quality solution. Here is so much in terms of this, given certain business matters that define the adoption of the law and since we have the adoption of the law on 27., I would suggest one conclusion to shorten the amendment phase, which I will deliver in writing, because we have a 27th session and if we bring it today and then 27 would be a competent commission that would eventually have its amendment again, and there it is defined how amendments commissions should be responded, so it would ask that this amendment phase be reduced to five days in order to comply with all the procedures. I'll deliver this conclusion. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13814	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13815	So, I would say to Mr. Fazlić on his claims, so as far as I know cable operators didn't register to collect a tv fee for public TV services or state services, as you would like to call them, and I'm not sure if it's possible, because they have their own message, they have all the wishes on the market and they've registered themselves as well. But it's another pair of 36 freaks. However, I would say that it is unnecessary, therefore, to adopt this solution, because Article 18(3) states that – the collection of tv charges can be carried out by public broadcasters through their own services, or on a contractual basis, to entrust the work to other legal persons, and in brackets, public undertakings, agencies and the like. So there's a possibility that even now contracts are being made regardless of what we're doing, so they've been there all along. But the board of directors, therefore, obviously has whether or not his obligations, not to take up any further time, I think it's still unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13816	Vice-President Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13817	There's a replica of Amir Fazlić before me. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13818	Excuse me, Amir Fazlić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13819	Well, I'm not just going to refer to one part of the replica, which my colleague Lovrinović, uh, directed to me, and I agree that there's a lot of unknowns here, but I said it's not sure that cable operators are registered for this function as well. So, we have a Communications Regulatory Agency that precisely has defined its role, its tasks, and if a colleague is not sure, here's to check it all through the law and see how and how, in the end of the law-making process, we can conclude today that in public debate everyone is going to do this and make their point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13820	Thank you. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13821	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. We have today's session, we have session 27, and by 30.06, this issue should be resolved. We are today an institution that rightly faces the Bosnian-Herzegovina public when it comes to the future of the Public TV Broadcasting System in Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore I call on the House of Representatives to, and all MPs, put aside any personal or party dissatisfactions or objections, that we all rise above it and be responsible at this moment and give the right answer to the question that is being asked before us. If we don't do it, there's no one else in this country to do it. And if we don't, I don't even want to imagine what the consequences might be after that. That is why I call on you to vote for this Law in the first reading and then in the amendment phase, which I also think should be shortened, because the 27th must be made known about the Law in the second reading, we should try to get the best text that will be part of this House's political will and that will enable it to be effective, I would say financial sustainability, what kind of financial sustainability of the Public TV Broadcasting System in Bosnia and Herzegovina to find a final solution. This is not a permanent solution we all know together, but this is simply one measure that needs to resolve the existing state. 37 There have been several models in the public that can be applied to this situation, it's said, we have this model through, uh, today we actually have two ways of picking up a rTV fee, it's via the incas service and via the telecom operator. And the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have arisen if the development of a telecommunications network, a cable operator system, had not come into the situation that a large number of those who had fixed phones at BT Telekom had switched to other networks or took some other type of phone, so they lost these subscribers and simply this law is trying to pick up, so I would say, all that and bring to one place what was in 2005, or in 2006, when this Law was adopted. I am convinced that the technique was so developed and that we had the current system of public communications, telecoms or cable, to put all of the law at one place at the time, because the law and purpose is that every household, and the assumption is that every household has a tv machine, radio or television apparatus, pays for a tv bag, today in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the case. So let us, therefore, let this amendment phase, I know that there are party differences, let us put it aside, I think it is possible, within this system, to achieve all the demands that we have as individuals and members of political parties. Within the framework of the system, it is possible to ensure equality of all three languages in official use and both letters, so it is possible to do so and we need as Parliament to work strictly, to respect it if it is not respected somewhere, and there are places where it is not respected, we should insist that the Council that takes care of editorial policy, that this policy be objective, impartial, so that we do not have a whole club of representatives who are dissatisfied with the editorial policy of a media. But I'm saying, I'm asking you to put it all aside now, this is not the time we need to talk about it, this is the moment we need to find a solution. And allow me just a few answers to some of the questions that have been raised here. It is true that it is the system's committee that determines the model for the RTT fee, it is quite clear, but it is also clear that without government intervention at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina it is not possible to implement any model and therefore this solution and legal solution is needed. The Board of Systems cannot force the entity government or the Council of Ministers to do this one way or another, even though the law, unless there is, therefore, co-operation and no co-operation of the executive authorities, so we need this Act and we do not need it in a collapsing system through the RTT fee and through these operators, and neither are these funds being colluded. There's a lot of objections to these funds, so we'll see in the second amendment phase what's going to happen, these aren't the fixed solutions this is just, let's just give this law a chance today to be adopted in the first reading, that then, I say, we sit down within the competent commission to define a solution and finally we have this Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13822	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13823	I thank the chairman. That we have problems, that we need to solve the financing of public services, but whether it is a way and we all know that this proposal is the consequence of the Committee's proposal to introduce funds, and then through entity laws to implement, introduce a new income tax, which is absolutely discriminatory, and by which, for example, one family with two employees and an average salary would pay 15 marks of RTV subscriptions. It is an official document that came from the System Committee, the other would pay less, the third more, and the proposal was done by one law firm, which was paid by one of the public services of 24,000 marks, as the director of the public service calculated that he needed 31 million annually. And you know why he needs so much money? Because one journalist, editor of one show, for one information show pays a thousand and a half marks a week, plus 20% of marketing, times four shows a month, that's a minimum of 5,000 euros. Another journalist, who comes from another country is not even a citizen of the country, pays 4000 euros. Public service needs to be financed by everyone without control of anyone. We have a public service being funded by someone, and they control the government. So we have a public service, today the Intelligence Supervisory Commission found that he was lying and found that he had a serious impact on the security of this country, because even colleagues, even those who control this public service, said that the Intelligence Service, as announced by the public service, did not participate in the organisation of protests in Banja Luka, that the Director of the Intelligence Service is not working for the Turkish Intelligence Service. I ask whose service this public service is, is this public service in the service of endangering security, if not just one entity, then the entire state? And I'll read to you in just two days the headlines of that public service that someone expects me to finance, I'm one of those who doesn't pay the subscription, because when I pay the subscription, I think I pay it to this service that works openly against me, and even our physical security, and I won't pay for it. When I'm called to court, when I have to, I'll pay for it. But as long as I have these titles, and I will only order two days of titles, lazanski directly and želja Cvijanović – the last chance applicable to the future of the opposition, it is the collapse of the constitutional order. The opposition wants chaos in Serbia, Radmanović -- 30,000 people are coming to the rally, extremists are not from Serbia, but from Sarajevo. Dodik -- May 14th, Serbia will not be destabilised. Basketball – protests so-called The Alliance for Change will fail just as their policy has failed. Šarović heads the SDS instead of Bosić. Minister, do you have any ambitions? So-called The Alliance of Change accused the authorities of spreading hate. lazanski - the riots are prepared by those who are disturbed by Dodik and Russia's presence. Radić – the scenario of beating Dodik with a colored revolution. Stanković – Sarajevo and the United States responds to instability in Republika Srpska. Mektić was the first minister to call for protests. Dodik – Ivanic came to the opening of Ferhadija and bypassed the celebration of Republika Srpska's Army Day. Petrović – we knew about the opposition's foreign finances. Stevandić – no wonder says Soros is funding the protests. Galijašević – Sorosev's support for the protests knocks down all masks. Press finds out – Soros is funding opposition protests. The opposition to protests in Turkish T-shirts. In gratitude, Sarovic's buses were paid by the Sarajevo brewery. There is no other side, and I am paying for it, so forgive me, so this is the kind of proposal that we cannot accept, but that is why we are asking here in this House the Transport and Communications Commission limits the public debate on the situation in our public services. Whether public services are really in the service of citizens, if we already impose a mandatory subscription, let's cancel their marketing, so everywhere in Europe where there is a mandatory subscription, public services have no marketing. Why would we watch, if we're already paying, commercials that we don't care about, let them leave it to the commercials. Not to say that this public service, which is a public service that can't call one political group by its name, always says the so-called, so I've been using the term "public service" since then. Because this really isn't a public service and this is a mess that we have. I'm saying, though, when I'm talking about this, I'm primarily thinking about that public service, which is the founder of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and here's when we talk about the state of finance to say this. This same public service, or RTV Republika Srpska, had a fee charge before.../sound notice for a message/... ending... for two sentences, four years ago 85%. They built a building like that in Banja Luka, settled all their obligations neatly, and now, according to BHRT, and now BHRT owes 8 million, we need to ask ourselves why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13824	Thank you. Replica Šefik Džaferović. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13825	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have a need to make a comment that can also be understood as a replica of Mrs Pandurević's exposure. So if I were to start talking about my dissatisfactions and the injustices and lunches that were made towards me, from that service that you're talking about, I could talk about here for days. But I will not fight it in the way that I will abolish that service and, by the way, all other services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I will fight by means of legal means, and I will ensure that services can function because it is our original and first-rate obligation and I call on you to fulfil that obligation. We have every right to require the strict implementation of all the three laws that we have in this area, which certainly do not allow such cases as Mrs Pandurević was talking about, and that is the way the second time is gone. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13826	Discussion Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13827	Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13828	Excuse me, Mr. Backović. Amir Fazlić...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13829	It's not a problem for me to sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13830	To correct the wrong allegations, Amir Fazlić first corrected the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13831	Well, I don't know how to call this a correction to the misquote of my colleague Pandurević, which refers to the segment of the mention and clarification of the funds. In fact, we had a commission of public broadcasters of an entity one so-called. The Finnish model where these funds are mentioned and where even the prices have been thrown out and the effects and everything else. As promoters, we've been running the concept of funds, but we haven't taken that model, so it's in phase two, we need to amend the laws and we haven't said there's going to be such a subscription. Normally, we need to be sensitive to the categories of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so now I don't want to assume that there will be changes around these funds and what amount it will be, but it is normal to take care of both pensioners and other categories. So we didn't take theirs, we just took the definition of funds and very often it appears in public that it's the introduction of a new so-called. Media tax. We already under the existing law, there is a member who defines it precisely not to quote, we have an obligation, so every citizen is obliged to own, so every household owned by a radio and TV receiver to pay a TV fee. Or we could define there, we could say it's tax, because it's already an obligation for every citizen, so it's really not our goal here to be, we're not talking about the price it's going to be, we're not even defining what these funds will look like and in what way and what their function will be, but we've also stressed that in the second phase we're ready to do it normally with the consent of everyone, the consultation and everything else. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13832	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13833	In order to avoid confusion, I really think that funding needs to be solved, but fellow Fazlić so we know that tax is not the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that you could not have done it through this Law, that this is the second step that will be taken through entity laws on public broadcasters. And here I accept that your party will not make such an unconstitutional proposal to prescribe taxes and bring people into different positions, the people who own a TV receiver, in the Federal Parliament. But I also tell you that another ruling party in Republika Srpska will, because it has hands. And I'm telling you that this is an unconstitutional solution and that we will fight in the Constitutional Court against it. The way of funding is fine, it should be arranged, and I agree completely with everything that the esteemed colleague Lovrinović has said, but in a way that no one will be discriminated against and of course we must bring in, not only public services can have rights without obligation, we must also ask the question of their obligations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13834	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13835	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, Mr. Džaferović, not now but in the previous part when he spoke, so I can't accept when you said that if we don't and who will, then we're responsible. I have read the provisions of Article 18 (1) of the Rules of Procedure for the payment of the RTD fee determines and establishes the Committee of the Systems. So, he hasn't done it all this time, he hasn't taken any measures, following further other items and thanks to them he's here to Mr. Novaković and I'm sorry as president of the Committee for Transport and Communications, which may have been the most helpful to help resolve this issue, or he introduced the Commission into such a thing, including Parlametn in this way. But then I cannot accept that this is Parliament's fault when it's known who's responsible for it all these years and when we've been looking for their shift, it's not over. Of course, that we will end up, we are passing laws, I agree with that, but so we cannot accept the story of funds and therefore, we ignore the provisions of the article that I read of the Consumer Protection Act. Anyone who sues will get it. It is simply incompatible, then, that two services are provided in one account. So we've passed this law and we don't care about anything, but only by temporary measures try to solve something again. And so I was also talking about that it takes a whole debate here to see what happened to the law, it hasn't been implemented in many segments, not just in this, in many segments. Unfortunately, we've reached the tobacco store, as they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13836	Mr. Backović is on his way. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13837	Thank you for giving me your word. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? 41 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13842	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Mladen Bosić, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13843	Well, I can do this to Mr. Backović, and partly to Mr. Džaferović's discussion. So, I don't know if you understand, we're talking about different things, you here have a part of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in both entities that because of the editorial policy and the situation in which it's settled don't feel public service as their public service. In Republika Srpska, it is mainly an opposition that the public service of the Republika Srpska's TV in the worst possible way is muddying and serving as a pagan machine of ruling parties in Republika Srpska. In the Federation, it is obviously part of the citizens of Croatian nationalities who are protesting, so it is a silent civil protest that people do not pay, but you also have a difference in the application of sanctions and forcing people to pay. So you have parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina where nothing is done against people who don't pay, and you have parts like the Brcko District where within two months you get a court ruling on forced collection. And now to return to this first question of whose public service is it? Since the public service does not meet its legal obligation to serve all citizens, which is why I should fulfil my legal obligation to finance such a public service. So it's part of civil disobedience, which is the democratic right of citizens in democracy. Who's to blame? Well, here's the first thing I'm going to say, so one part of the guilt is carried by public service. What's a public service? It's an institution, it's imaginary, but it's carried by people who abuse public service for their political purposes. And we have a problem with that, and that's why we're not in favor of funding this kind of public service that's been working on your head. Why would you pay something as a citizen if someone who invites you to your lynch? Who would do that normally? And that they will apply, that they have legal provisions, so they will apply exactly, said MP Pandurević, they will sue, probably win in court, as it goes according to accelerated procedures and express and will be charged the service. So we have to get into the very core, whether the public service is doing its legal part or not, and then talk about how to solve that question. I guarantee you that no one here in this room is against funding public services, but that they are public services and that they are in service and citizens and the development of society and the calming of the political situation and better understanding, that is, the better future of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13844	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13845	Since the replica was on the discussion that I had, of course not wanting to get into the controversy, it's not my wish at all, I told you about Annex IX of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which and why and how and I guess it will be established. But exactly, not of course not wanting to undermine your work, your successes, your failures, etc. You were in a period when as a political option in the power to pass 43 laws, it's true whether so, and you should be going into the further process of ending a public corporation and self-satisfaction has led to what we have today. And we're not going to be because, you think I'm satisfied, my first sentence here today and in the first discussion was to the press who never said a single sentence here, did I say, like this, that I'm satisfied, but we're not going to crash something that's the foundation of any state because of these kinds of dissatisfactions. Well, but let's have the strength, get the strength to bring them into what they have to be and make them do what they're supposed to do. I understand your frustration with the way RTRS works, absolutely, I follow all the TVs and I'm not blind that Federal is under the hat of individuals. So today you have in the Federal Television room a hunger strike for Sead Barjaktarević, here's a name, today is a hunger strike for a man there, but no one is responding, but no one. We've crowned the directors of entity television as kings and they seem to have a carriage of trust and work on a dictatorship that only they know. You know, in the Statute of the party I represent, the BPS first sentence is – principles of social democratic order, etc. Whenever they call, they call on only one gentleman, another gentleman, and interestingly, they don't have a.../sound warning for the MP/... our party, but they're well in love with her and make love to her, we'll see how long it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13846	Thank you, Mr. Backović, you've entered the second minute. Hanka Vajzović's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13847	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I warmly welcome you. I was going to say that in one, we have to be all agreeable, the public TV system is the need of this society and this state, we'd have to have it whatever we do. On the other hand, this Public TV system would have to be in a function where citizens expect, why they need it, would have to be independent, to inform citizens impartially, objectively, in good time and everything that goes with public service, therefore a healthy public TV system is needed. At this point, I think we don't have a system first, so far we have a renewed syntagma of the System Committee, and while the Committee is mentioned there are systems, in practice the system doesn't have that's for sure. What's going on? This solution we're looking for, we're actually offering public services, we have three public services, we offer sedatives, we offer apaurin to sort of get through this, and we're never serious about not having those so-called. We have never been public, although, please, in the commission, there are more members here, very intensively dealing with these issues, we have never carried out perhaps this public, public hearing as it is already called, we have from the unions very serious, serious warnings that there is not all right. Who's to blame, and we haven't figured it out, we don't have a diagnosis, what we're offering right now may be a solution, but we really need to admit the funds are nothing more than tax. In this text that we are offered once said tax or funds, the second time we say one another, we have verbic times that don't exactly go into law, they can set up fund entities, so I don't know, public tv services on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory will primarily be financed, whether it's law or some kind of text, and so it's done in a row. I personally supported this with the commission, because let him survive, so we'll see how to heal him, what to do to make it better so this doesn't happen again. I also support this and what is my colleague Lorinović, there is still a lot to deal with, but here we do not want the patient to die, and almost, on that road, let at least now this be a transitional phase, and we would have to make an effort on that path to some kind of healing and avoid being so-called. I agree, Chairman, the citizenship of everyone who communicates around with people is unsatisfactory, but on that very road we would have to somehow, somehow engage in this being neither of their side of the business. There's no system, they're competitors among themselves. About which 44 systems, no one low in three public services we call the system. It takes a lot here, and in this text, probably if we're going to amend it on this condition we've supported some other colleagues and self-repairing this text, because the law is the law so let it go to be applicable at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13848	Thank you. Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's a few words for lobbying to adopt this legal solution today. I want to take a look at this problem on the other side or light it up, uh, since my colleagues used to talk a lot about this first side, I'd say. The other side is a reminder that Bosnia and Herzegovina has submitted an application for EU membership, I am there reading little, preparing for this meeting found that the 1997 amsterdamski Protocol, which represents one of the elements of the EU's legal gain, has recommended four principles on which the future of public broadcasters will be based, namely stability, independence, proportionality and transparency. And I think that at this point in time when we have submitted an application to the EU, we expect reception or pre-accession, uh, to take care and when we talk about stable funding, here are public tv services in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That there is no economic or political involvement in funding, on this side we will provide independence, transparency through the monitoring of spending funds, but through supervisory bodies that we, too, here in front of Parliament, place in determining, defining certain supervisory bodies in the institutions of the BiH state. Here I am saying, since we are waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina to respond to the EU membership application, it would not be wise for me to take one step backwards when it comes to the EU, and surely we will do so if we do not provide stable funding, here I am saying that this '97 Amsterdam Protocol. The year defined, this one, is essentially a element of the EU's legal gain that we will have to adopt in the coming period. And let us not forget each other, that moral side, this, unless the Law on Amendments and Supplements on the Public TV System is adopted, will also question the survival of BHRT, but also what is important, if we are people, if we represent the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the existence of all the employees and their families. So we have to take care of these few details, to have one quality picture, have a clear conscience, and here's how it's supposed to be done when it comes to voting. I call on colleagues, colleagues and colleagues to take this part of the responsibility that is on them seriously and to support this amendment and the addition of the Law to ensure that the TV systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina continue their stable funding, and from this they will produce all that BiH needs and employees in the RT system and the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13850	Thank you. jasmin Emrić's hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13851	I thank the chairman. I am reporting to show my support to the promoters and their intention to resolve the legal obstacles that are set out to, from June 30th, we would not have solved the system of billing for RTTV fees in 45 Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore I will make a brief comment, because I hope that we will still come to the second stage, the amendment phase, and that in this way we will exchange views on some proposals and possible misunderstandings. I have no objection to what the promoters have included and the establishment of funds as a new model of collection, because I appreciate that there have been such advocacy in the proposals so far and so far, and on this basis I am sure that the desire was to leave that possibility open for this law to be supported in the House of Representatives. And I also think that this is a long-term solution that needs to be functioning if it decides to set up funds, but also I note that there were enough elements and models in the existing legal framework to address the issue of the RTT tax system in a quality way. Article 4 of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Public TV System complements the proposals in Article 17(1), but in addition, it seems to me that there is incomprehensibility, i.e. this supplement is not clear enough, so I would exchange my views with the promoters so that it would be better to add a new position to read – the obligation of the Article (1) does not apply when funds for the financing of public broadcasters are collected through funds. Of course, this is in the variant if the funds remain as options for these amendments and additions to the law. In that case, it would have to change, the nomation of attitudes, existing attitudes (2) and (3) which would be attitudes (3) and (4), but in order to be consistent, funds would also have to be installed in these attitudes, of course again with notice if the possibility of setting up funds was accepted. Article 5 complements the position (3) of Article 18 where the possibility of contracting RTTV charges and companies is extended. So, this supplemental proposal extends the range of opportunities and finding different models in the RTD tax system, although so far, as we have heard in previous discussions, these opportunities have not been exploited, i.e. there was not enough responsibility in the application of the existing legal solution and therefore public broadcasters have found themselves in a very difficult financial situation. For reasons of consistency, Article 6 should also define the term - income collection organisations, because this term is not used in Article 18 in the manner of collection, so it should determine that they are legal entities with which contracts are entrusted by public tv services on a contractual basis and funds for the collection of entities and Brcko District. Also, in Article 42, it may be for the purpose of giving power to telecom operators and cable operators at the charge of tv fees to include the payment procedure through the court. Because it seems to me that at least in the Federation of BiH, these instruments are not being used enough, and thus significant financial resources from the collection of RTV fees are not collected. This is as short as possible as possible, my discussions on the principles of the Law and I hope that we will come to the amendment phase to improve the text and certainly adopt the Law which will allow for the continuation of the payment of the TV fee, and thus also the provision of the financial resources necessary for the work of public broadcasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13852	Thank you. Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13853	Dear Chairman, Deputy Chairman, I welcome you, as well as all colleagues and all present here in the hall. 46 I, my debate actually being, I'd say, one set of corrections to false allegations, but since I probably don't have the exclusive right to chair that time to correct the wrong quote without the consequence of multiplying by two, I'm going to use this term debate. First of all, a respected colleague, Džaferović, said in his presentation that there are certainly problems with public broadcaster services that are not only about financing, that there are all clubs, and even people who are dissatisfied with the TV service, but it is not the time to discuss it, but it is time for us to pass this Law, and sometimes we will eventually solve it. I wonder when that moment is? We have been talking about this moment for a long and very responsible time, and I am saying that the issue of the systematic solution of this Law, which we are changing today, is a question of all the issues and the financing of these media. Because this law does not finance several levels, which is why the issue of financing does not work. Because when is the question and when is the time to solve these famous other problems, and the issue of dissatisfaction here's the club I belong to? One of the data I found today, Krimski Tatari in Crimea has some 200 and a few thousand, probably the people in one of the most difficult positions in Europe, here I am not going wider, they have a public channel in their own language... it is called, regardless of all their problems especially now in the situation of Crimea that channel works and works. Just one comparison. My colleague Backović was surprised, he probably referred to what my colleague Pandurević said, so I will do it again, I also don't pay for a RTV subscription, and in that way I certainly violate one provision of the law that was created by the violation of the other law, my colleague Lovrinović said. This provision was created by violating the Consumer Protection Act and when you break the law you have at least very clear legal consequences, I was saddened to break that provision in law. Believe me, by simple means of law, I have defended myself from this lawsuit and this speaks to the quality of this Law. I've got a good TV set ready to go. And the question of political or moral responsibility, as my colleague Backović pointed out, believe me that I was paying a tv tax and he talked a lot about it, wouldn't be in this Parliament, because the voters who chose me are supposed not to pay a public TV tax. A few words may and may not say about this Law, I will not repeat what my colleagues on my left and right about the Law said, it does say that article 18 defined the question of financing public tv services, but I will just remind you, it seems to me at the last session we had a financial report concerning BHRT, and there we heard very clearly, and that it was repeated on Jahorina, some people upstairs were heard from firsthand, I watched it on TV on the public tv service, that BHRT has claims from RTRS, I don't know, 8 million and some marks, there are claims from federal television almost twice as much, and if I had those BHRT funds I would pay all of its obligations and there would be around 3 million marks left to resolve some long-term obligations. So it's not a problem in the money, because RTRS probably because it owes the 8 million marks to have the financial power to form another programme. This law has done two things which are ad hoc, what we have time-limited the constant extension of the validity of the famous, uh, solutions with telecom operators, is now defined on indefinitely until something else is resolved and introduced potential new revenues by catching cable operators, so in a way that perhaps in the building of colleagues Backović he will not only be he, but perhaps the entire building will pay for RTTV..., it is a potential new income. If BHRT behaves according to its own resources as it is now acting, that revenue will end up in the RTRS budget and it will be able to work, create a third programme. Or also in the revenues of federal television, so they will potentially be working on a second programme, whether it is an open issue in Croatian. So the issue of financing and the question of money has been resolved in the existing law, the issue of banal procedures concerning debt... the relationship of suing the debtor, the care of his pyrhode has not been resolved and neither will this Law be resolved. Another note about the funds that are very much here, if we really want to make a solution that in the future we will do better and different ways, and probably in this country, RTV 47 tax is not the most ideal solution for financing public TV services, if we want to do so we must seek a law that we will be able to close at this level. The issue of funds, including entity funds, is very speculative for another reason, you know that it provides for some direct taxes, but in our Agenda that we adopt here and which, which are full of mouths, we say – that we will reduce the burden on work and reduce parafiscal burdens numerically and we will not introduce new ones. We shouldn't even be doing this to finance public service, if we said we wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13854	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13855	Well, here's a short one for my colleague, Kožul. So, I think it's really not appropriate that we still in Parliament are racing to say that, as it is appropriate not to pay, not to respect the law, so don't pay the tax, so let's say that our voters ask us to. Because here's one comment, our voters, and I believe so, my colleague Kožul and your voters ask you, therefore, to provide them with a better life, to stop this departure of young people from BiH, so that there is more justice, to solve Mostar's question. So if anyone, let's say, can solve Mostar's question has real keys in their hands, so that's what you are except for my party, let's say, that's your party, and that's what, let's say, voters are asking you to talk about it, let's solve it if we're already hiding behind voters. But what I would especially like to comment on along with this comment here, so I don't think it's correct that, because I'm hearing more comments here today on the reporting of entity broadcasters, so it's not right that the state television BHRT might be paying off in some way also because of some of that poor editorial policy of entity broadcasters that we've heard here today from some colleagues. So, I think there's still no power here, and there's no responsibility that we're essentially dealing with what we should be dealing with when it comes to solving, let's say, this, this, uh, public tv service, because we don't really have responsible people, we don't have brave people, we always get into some kind of teaton, here's the 30th, what it's called, June is a deadline. The same question, for example, with Mostara, with the Mostar elections, is the same question with this Coordination Mechanism, with the adaptation of this SAA. So we're just sitting here, we're the most responsible people who run the country, they don't have the courage, they don't have the strength to turn the matrix around, and they're kind of more responsible to lead the country and answer the real problems that we have here in the country. But regardless of this, I invite you here to show some understanding to the end of the situation when it comes to public service, so that this is the kind of solution that has been offered today, but that we are already opening this debate right now and we are looking for answers to all these questions that people rightly have brought out here today, and which, among other things, concerns this policy at any level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13856	Thank you. Correction of the false quote, Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13857	So I'm going to do it again, and I'm really breaking the rule of law, which was created by violating the provisions of the second law, and I repeat it again. But the demagogue connection of 48 Mostars or what voters of me or of us all expect with these other topics... to this topic that we are talking about here today is really, really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13858	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Monika Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13859	I welcome everyone present. I would also tell Mr. Šepić that those who chose us, so they are also asking us for a channel in Croatian not only in language, but also in their editorial policy, such coffee Hrvat deserve, as a minority here turns out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13860	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13861	I don't think it would be right if I didn't, so I didn't, I didn't say anything for no particular reason, especially in that sense, I can't object to me saying that when I talk about principled things about non-compliance with deadlines, about some of the obligations that we do, and we don't do them right, that it's a demagogue story. So, at least everyone in this country sees what kind of relationship we have, that people take responsibility for, as they refer to certain deadlines. You still see when someone else recognizes it, you're mad at some people who recognize it, so they point to it, so you kind of want to attribute it to them that it's some story that here has some other comment, so I don't think there's one such approach. And my second comment to my colleague, Tomić, is that I will not comment specifically.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13862	Discussion Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13863	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, by excluding these discussions that are beyond the context of this agenda point, I want to conclude that it is obvious that this issue is very complex and that it deserves a thorough debate. But also the fact that we can't solve the problem if we wanted to, we put it in one place, wanting to solve these problems, we made it a priority for us to solve them right now. I think that, here I am going to refer to Mr. Bosić's statement, that probably no one in this room would mind paying and everyone wants to pay a TV subscription. Starting from that, and taking the proposal, this, the law on amending this law that is just opening the process and giving the opportunity to discuss all of this here, which I don't think was primarily, gives us a chance to discuss these things in the time that comes, but simply this question needs to be solved. A kolega, Fazlić, said that we absolutely express our willingness to participate in the definition of the law by respecting the amendments that will be tabled, respecting the desire to fix the text of this Law, to get that form that will be applied and in this way to remove this problem 49 from the agenda so that we can simply discuss other problems. Of course, I think, above all, that the obligation of public service management and responsible people in public services implies that these matters must be discussed very seriously and that this issue must be thoroughly resolved. But let's give this law a chance and give an opportunity to all of us who have an objection to settle this in the amendment phase in this time ahead of us to get a law that will open the door for the final solution to these problems that they were talking about here. Of course, if I didn't, I wouldn't want to refer to the remarks that have been made here, or that I'm opposing all these remarks, but here's what I'm saying is that it's a simple opportunity to have the need to talk about these things, but we're dealing with the fundamental principles of what this Law amending the law offers, so let's just stick to it. And I call upon everyone to support this law and to receive quality law within the next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13864	Thank you. Senad Šepić, no, it was peas, wasn't it? Okay, Deputy Chairman, we have an apology, we have a correction to the wrong quote of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13865	Well, here's to correct Mr. Đonlagić who said everyone wants to pay for a TV subscription. Now I am somehow confused by listening to discussions from HDZ colleagues who are called not to, whether, even from this place, invite all persons from this House who, if not, do not have what they stand for, which is that they have their own editorial policy, so Mrs Tomić is calling for editorial policy, which means that the team system they are calling on should be employed and editorial policy to lead HDZ members, i.e. their constituents or their close people. On the other hand, you are now saying that everyone is calling for payment, so from this place, from the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, they are directly calling on citizens and citizens not to pay the TV subscription until the moment they have what they advocate, which is absolutely discriminatory one humiliation of the law, one call for non-compliance with the law. On the other hand, we've all signed the Agenda, we've all committed ourselves to respecting, to the new progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'm now asking Mr. Đonlagić -- are you doing this because of coalition relations or what you're saying, or correcting what your coalition colleagues said before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13866	Correction of the false quote, Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13867	In short, it is very simple to see in the stenogram that colleague Tomić did not mention BiH in any words in her presentation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13868	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Borjana Krišto. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13869	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, all the distinguished guests at today's session, I warmly welcome you all. Today, we have on the agenda of the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, today through this debate which I have tried to listen carefully to, we have heard a lot, among other things from colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, in order to have a debate on public TV, the system, or broadcasters, etc. Which, of course, is a logical conclusion given what we heard today, and obviously there is a need to apologize on a subject like this. And I'm here now that I'm out and I'm going to try to stick to these agenda points, and I could also say something about public TV systems, but since you've said different ways of saying things about yourself and even the opposite of your views, after maybe just one or two debates, it clearly tells us what we're in and where we are today when it comes to public tv systems. I will also say, so regardless of how I will be understood, we have our position both as a representative and as someone who comes from the club, who comes from the political option of the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH and who we are legitimately trying to represent the interests of all those we represent here. And it's our perfectly legitimate right to fight on the right to media in your own language, which is what your colleague said, they have the right and certain minorities, etc. How and in what form, we advocate, I mean, for the systematic resolution of this problem, and when we talk about the system, you should regulate the law as well as how. When we have this law, I'm going to refer to the proposal of these amendments to the law. If we wanted to systematically resolve this Law, I would now refer to the legislators of this Law. I don't think it's nice to talk about one of these laws, and I'm talking about the Public TV system of BiH, let's say that we have, say, proposings coming from one nation. I think it was at least fair and correct, and we all know that there's this topic and there's this obligation, here's that at the level of clubs, Parliament, however you want, commissions, try to find a solution for a law like this again. Surely what is now offered, I consider it perhaps only one good intention and I do not wish to condemn in any way the initiative and the idea, regardless of what it does not have for me in some way a legal, systematic solution to what is proposed here, and that is the financing of the Public TV System. When we look at, here, the provisions of the Law, I will say according to my humble legal, normative experience, here is this Law, you will not be angry, but purely amateurally done, and right away in Article 1, it is said that, behind the definition of the system's permits, new definitions are added – entities are Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. I mean, I think it's too much to comment on. In Article 16a) of the financing of public TV systems, it says – public TV services in Bosnia and Herzegovina will primarily be financed by revenues from tv taxis. "It will be primarily," of course, while respecting that there is a position (2) – that funds can be set up by entities, or the Brcko District, in accordance with its competences, the founders of the Fund will ensure the financing of public services necessary for stable functioning, etc. Furthermore, in Article 23, we have that income and funds collected from funds are paid directly into a single account, of course this Law has not said in any way how, nothing, which, where the account will be, and the revenues will be distributed, means, to these entity broadcasters in the ratio of 25:25 and this BHRT 50%. First of all, we don't know if this is, in what way, whether or not these are agreed, whether it's acceptable to these broadcasters, is that something that is really systematic, as I would say, meets the financial needs and entity broadcasters of 51 states, because I, as far as I know modestly, that all of them depend on the BHRT Public Broadcaster, I don't think they can do their jobs without the BHRT Public Broadcaster. What am I saying? Many have called on who pays the tv fee, etc. I'm also going to add that often on these broadcasts I've been named, and even here from our esteemed colleagues, I fully respect their position, they have the right to think of it that way, but we also have the right to say and act and I would like to say in the first place in accordance with the law. But if I think something's subtorious to the law, then I'm also doing it through institutions. And just so you know, no matter how it's going to be passed to the media, and I'm in line with those who don't pay a TV subscription, but I also don't pay it by just one complaint that I made precisely because of the unfounded provisions required to pay such a fee. But what am I saying? I do not belong to those who do not want to pay, I want to pay it and want it from all of us, no matter how someone has just interpreted it, we want to, but that is why we want systematic amendments to the Law on the Public TV System that will ensure that they are truly public, which will ensure objectively, efficiently, impartially creating information for our public exchange and thus the existence of such public services. What I least expect from this bill is that perhaps sooner, although a reduction of the amendment procedure is required, at the level of the College, the president of clubs, commissions, etc. Finally, some kind of broader debate sits down and tries to come through this solution, because, with respect here, some kind of will has been expressed to come up with certain solutions when it comes to this Law, i.e. seeking a solution to the financing of the Public TV System of BiH. I repeat once again, to be not misunderstood, we want to remain principled and consistent with our views, these are our legitimate rights, but we want to look through this Law and through this Proposal for a solution so we don't bring them into question, because our position is also clear that we want them to survive and remain the Public TV system.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13870	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13871	Dear colleagues, not wanting, again, to enter any controversy, I would just ask that here, because very often it will happen as my colleague Lovrinović suggested, so we didn't say why not someone from another people, I prepared and should release in the regular procedure, i.e. send a number of legal solutions that I am not satisfied with now, so I made laws on amendments and additions to the law, but if it is so observed, only Bošnjak, then I would have to ask someone from, colleagues who are Serbian provinces or Croatian provinces to do so with me. I don't think it's right that you said about the pay phone, that they're just from one nation. They are only MPs who remember, they are MPs and nothing else, who have remembered to start with something called a law that is in the function of solving the current problem that public broadcasters have. And don't mix that with the nations, please. The laws are when they're passed for all the same, the law has no national omens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13872	Correction of the wrong allegation, Salko Sokolović. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Correction of the misquote, a replica sent to Mrs. Krišto. Here's to not really demagogical behavior here, Mrs. Krišto, I suggest you until we find some system solution so you can fill out your payment and pay your fee, so you don't stay damaged, and you said you regret not paying your subscription. So, the payment card, the payment, and the system solution when it does, then you're going to be part of a project that finances public TV systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13874	Amir Fazlić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13875	Here's a way I want to, I don't know how to replicate to my colleague Krišto, thank you for taking part in the debate and still contributing to this law, not getting into some political comments and all of this, but since she'd really given some of the suggestions here and some of the findings of some of the amateur members and everything else, I'd really like you to propose certain amendments, especially to correct that part of the text you called amateur. Really well-intentioned... We're going to have your amendments in that section where you point to some amateur sentences, terms, really accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13876	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13877	It's not my intention in any way to replicate, but I would just like to tell him that when I want to pay, I won't even have to call Mr. Salko Sokolović to ask someone, I know very well what my obligations are and I do all my duties in time. As for fellow Fazlić, it's also not a replica, I understand it from him, so our intervention was on our side, thinking about my club in general, and as far as I'm concerned, it was an individual remark, I think, and I wanted to find some kind of, let me say, mild form that it's amateur in terms of normative, I hope you didn't take offense. And as for these repairs, here I would really love it, it's not a problem for us to make amendments, but I would love for the truth to do it with the proposings in a way that would really be a solution that would be acceptable to everyone, and in a way to the public TV system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13878	Thank you. The discussion of Fehim Škaljić. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13879	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Zvizdić, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you. So if you want to be regular then you're at the end, because today it's better to get into these dialogue procedures you get before the appointment. I don't know anyone who's satisfied with the overall state of society, so among other things and public broadcasters, it's not a good condition. I am not satisfied with what is being provided to us, I expect the public service to awaken the creative potential of citizens, for individuals to have a positive approach, to highlight those examples that motivate people and the extent in which it is offered is not what pleases me. I see that there are arguments that do not satisfy others and these are legitimate arguments and for a reason can be talked about, about policy contamination, about the ability to be in the capacity of a public broadcaster, not commercial television, to the fact that commitment to the system is not adequate, the system of JanEmitters, we don't have a corporation... and these are all things that we need to discuss. I think Mrs. Krišto said the thing I support, let's do what we have to do with co-operation. We're about to shut down the emitter because it's been brought into a situation of itself and with us in such a position, I'd say more to myself than we are, but the situation is on the dream. What would it mean for this country whose parliament we are to shut down the public broadcaster for not being created by... the conditions? Is this a contribution to what we want from this country to make it a candidate, even in the future a member of the European Union, to the right and the possibility for citizens to be able to compete with others. Information as a need, public information through service is today social food to a modern man and by shutting it down we would exempt it. I could personally say a lot of things in terms of legal text and the fact that he didn't give answers to a lot of things that I've discussed on the bodies, but I accept it as an attempt not to get into a position to shut down and accept as a need to open a real story, not a declaration of how to solve this issue. The framework for a solution is quite clear, it is a European framework, and there we cannot bid whether or not we will, in the end it must be, the sooner we go on that path, we will come to a solution that is adequate, it must be a solution that is acceptable for all those who do.... there will be these countries, for all citizens, because it should justify money about it. That is why I am an advocate for this as an initiating text to get the support of this Parliament and set out on the path of its changes in order to reach a solution that is first, it will not stop this, but it will continue the process that will allow all public service needs to be serviced in a way that is acceptable to.... elements of this country, without it we will not take a step forward and without it we will endanger the European future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call on the members of this distinguished House to, in addition to everything said, be able to show themselves today in relation to the text offered, accept that this is the first reading and that it opens up a procedure in which we should be active in which we can transform it into the dimension that will prevent the service from being blocked and that we can make changes that are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13880	Thank you. Mirsad Mešić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13881	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can't help thinking that you from the ruling majority are taking away our jobs, the main method of your operation is actually opposition action, sometimes it's because of something, 54 sometimes because of this, and mostly because of some national issues that I don't really know are national, but that's what puts them on the pedestal of the national, so that's how it turns out. I'm also used to MPs calling for us not to respect the laws we've passed, and even at the highest level, and I'm not going to talk about it, I'm disgusting to myself when I say it. We at the Social Democratic Watch are really concerned about the functioning of the public TV system and we want to make every effort to make any solution that will effectively and secure it. And here's the next thing I know, we're going to use ourselves when we support this law through the amendment action to give a solution to a stable and efficient and above all to the benefit of BiH citizens to the functioning of working broadcasters. And give us some, from these ruling parties, give us space to be opposition, don't do this to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13882	Thank you. Mr. Backović, this is the third correction of the wrong allegation, yours by this point, so you have no right. There's a third one written here. We've got a third one. I don't know where it is. I don't know where it's used. Denis Bećirović's hearing. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13883	_________(?) Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[no microphone turned on]] ZAIM Do I have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13886	Mr. Chairman, I assumed, and I see now and justifiably that the state-run Bosnian Herzegovina TV can come into this position in which it is currently, which is why in early February of this year I made a call and invited the College to organise an emergency session of the House of Representatives within 10 days. Of course, we could have found five signatures, but here I made a call to the College from now on you can see objective and justifiable reasons. I'm not going to repeat what my predecessors were talking about, because I want to say something that didn't happen during today's debate, when it comes to national television. First, first of all, I must conclude that it is evident that we here and in Parliament have political forces that are ready from different motives to bring about the destruction of state television and that must definitely be stopped. That is why the SDP Club, as my predecessor and president of the club said, will also support this proposal that has been offered today, because that is a better solution than this situation we currently have. However, what I want to say and to send a very clear message today from the House of Representatives, the Dayton Constitutional and Legal Order of late 1995 predicted that this country could come into 55 such situations and it had given it tools, as well as any state, how to overcome these situations. Here is what should be tried through parliamentary debates in the legislative procedure all as described by the Rules of Procedure, although it is strange that today we have heard several times that someone will not respect the law, it is disrespecting even the Rules of Procedure of our House, because in the House one of the first things says we respect the Constitution and the laws of this state. So, since Dejton predicted it, I want this discussion, therefore, to be completed and to call on that part of the Dayton Peace Agreement to be included in these situations, it's aneks x, it's the High Representative of the international community. Publicly, therefore, I call on him if this proposal does not pass today to respond in accordance with the powers conferred on him by the Dayton Peace Agreement and to protect one of the symbols of the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13887	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13888	The high representative lacked a letter from a respected colleague, Bećirović, who we remember when he was sitting there in the College writing at least once a month, so here I am glad that you called him again to do what he did. No Niko in this country wants to destroy the Public TV System, Mr Bećirović, I will remind you that just three years ago our Club here suggested that we fund public broadcasters from the budget, put BHRT on the BiH institutions budget, as well as entity broadcasters, and at least in that case, a little more parties will control those broadcasters, not just one. So it's absolutely incorrect that anyone wants to destroy the Public TV system. And if someone has a responsibility, Mr. Bećirović has your party, because for four years you had a resolute minister in the Council of Ministers, what you did, for four years you were the majority here, the majority of you in the Federation, so why didn't you report back, solved the public broadcasting system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13889	Correction of the wrong allegation, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13890	Obviously, what is true is correcting, and the truth is that we have political forces that, by their actions, want to lead to the disappearance of the Bosnian-Herzegovic radio-television and that is the fact. Although I very rarely replicate my colleague Pandurević, about every hundred of her replicas, I report with one and relatively short, and all of her replicas to my account I suggest that she add it to one book, to publish it, and I will be very happy to also distribute all these replicas to the electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13891	Non-compliance with the established agenda, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, but here we have finished this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13892	Only to Mr Bećirović, so today the topic is not, the TV tax, not the state television, because this is a public TV service. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13893	Thank you. We're finishing the agenda. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16, of 04.03.2016 (Law in Second Reading) The House College did not reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the debate was concluded, and we will come forward later in the second round of voting. Point 13, Ad. 13. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-929/16, of 21 March 2016)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13899	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers allow me to say something I am obliged to say in these situations. So, this decision is not due to the fact that the job has not been done properly and for other reasons, this decision comes about, on the contrary, it is a very professional exercise, this decision is due to a change in the parliamentary majority. So this is one common situation when the parliamentary majority is changed to change and to change, they bring different personnel solutions. I am taking the opportunity to thank Mrs Aida Koristović for her very correct and professional work in the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, she has certainly improved this Service with her work, but politics is politics, the parliamentary majority is a parliamentary majority and it must be respected. I wish her a lot of success in future affairs, and I want the secretary who will be elected to do the job just as professionally as Mrs. Koristović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13900	Thank you. Ambassador Hanka Vajzović. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13901	Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask, as we passed, at the last session when some MPs from the Democratic Front were resolved, from the commission, that, and here in that decision on resolution, add one such position as the reason for the resolution, as the chairman has just said. I think it's correct for someone who decides to have one of those attitudes. Last time we agreed on that, and you added thank you, therefore, here I suggest that this time too, it is correct according to who it is, it is the usual procedure, it is all clear, but it will be correct if it is, because it stands in one part, means only in the Decision on the resolution to be and that because of the change in the parliamentary majority, etc. as it stands in your second document.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13902	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Deputy Chairman Borjan Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13903	Thank you very much. First of all, I will also thank our secretary of the joint service for one very correct and professional work, which we all did yesterday, individually as members of the Colleges on their own within the College and on the extended College. Here today I am also taking the opportunity here at the session and I really want the new secretary of the joint service to be working properly and professionally, that is, in the interests of this House and this Parliamentary Assembly. When it comes to this claim that a colleague made, we also had it on our College yesterday, however, given that this time the House of Peoples took its job, that is, the resolution decision before this House, we should not actually fall into traps to make different decisions at different homes. I think that because there is no possibility, these are some sort of individual acts, as far as names are concerned, meaning resolutions and appointments, so it would be good to make the same decision as the House of Peoples. And we, as a compromise solution yesterday at a session of the extended College and at the close of the College, agreed that today this would be explained and included in the agenda, that the reason for the removal of the parliamentary majority was. And the motion for a decision I don't think we should change because then we should kind of repeat maybe the procedure in another House, etc. Well, that's the only reason we should make the same decision. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13904	Correction of the wrong quote, Hanko Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13905	It is not the correcting of the wrong allegation but only the clarification, so the decision remains the same – it is replaced by Aida Koristović, named Vehabović Kenan, so everything remains the same. Maybe in line with what you've all already said that the secretary has done well so far, that you've all been, here's simply one protection mechanism, something that's so much more dignity in knowing why, if that's not the problem, it was my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13906	Thank you. 59 Zaim Backović discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13907	I always react this way when these situations are at stake, and I will always react and react as a man not as a party member, nor as someone implementing one of, possibly, politics. If it writes in our agenda, and that's what it says I didn't make this up, it says -- because of the change in parliamentary majority, so let it say in the Decision. No, no, because you can't write is being replaced, there has to be a reason either she's committed a crime or she's done a crime or she's hurt a procedure or she's either, because she's not but the reason she's doing it, you have to know in... because you have to in the down preamble, give some time and the right to appeal to that woman for such a decision. So you have to write what she's been replaced for, we can't do it that way, we're playing with people like old footballs that break each shot, so we have to pump it again, they're not balls, patch it up any way we want, stain it, they're not, people aren't balls. Because there in the Appointation Decision, it says even on what period it is appointed, don’t forget that. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13910	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 17th point, Ad. 17. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Act No: 01-50-1-1384-2/16, since 14.06.2016 On the basis of the preamble from the Chairman of the SBB, the College of the House established the above-mentioned Proposal for a Decision, you received a proposal for a decision. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted this Decision at the 19th session, held on 27.05.2016. 60 I'm opening a debate. A message from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13912	Well, here it is, if, the change in parliamentary majority is clear why it comes because of this, but that's when fellow SBB colleagues, or SBB as a party that at the beginning of its term was destined to promote gender equality policy, so here's what a man would think, because you know in BiH women can't be ministers, who rarely get that chance from which parties, so we kind of closed our eyes when the proposals came from the SBB, and these were respected ministers and we discussed it at some previous sessions. Then, in BiH, it is known that women can be secretaries, secretaries and so on, some lower-ranked place, and when the political party that was committed to gender equality at the beginning of the mandate shows that it has the opportunity to appoint a less-represented sex in BiH, which is otherwise the most numerous minority in BiH with 51% of the population, and these are women, then, behold, miracles again comes to us a proposal and a male person. I am also glad that it came to this that finally the right person and the right policy to be promoted and represented by the party mentioned also showed this at the last session when, for amendments and additions to the Council of Ministers Act, where 40% of women were proposed, only one of their colleagues supported the Law, while the rest of the Club were against it. Now, I want a lot of happiness in my work, and I hope that it will continue to support the policy of equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13913	Thank you. Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13914	I'll be brief, I would ask you only in the materials of the bar to provide us with a biography of the SBB candidate, because here I see a decision and we don't even have a biography, we don't know what the gentleman was doing, what he was doing, so we see if he meets at least some formal conditions when it comes to setting up this very important and very responsible position.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13915	I got information from Home Secretary that it was delivered to club biography. [[Common discussion]] We're moving on, so we're going to point 18. Ad. 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in the fight against Crime, No. 01,02-05-2-1420/16, from 16/05/2016 (the delayed statement at the 30th session, held on 24.05.2016)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13921	We want to get along right now, I'd like to go right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13922	No, you'd be fine right now, I wouldn't, so we don't have the consent to right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13923	Can I have a word then just for a little while, just.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13924	Here you go. Deputy Chairman of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13925	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I don't think there's any reason for us as a College today to decide whether we have consent or not. You have the right to extend it to another deadline, but I am then in accordance with Article 85. I ask the Rules of Procedure to organise a session only on this point within three days at the latest. So this can't wait for session 27. So I suggest we do it today, not to be tactful, that we know where we are when it comes to this law, because the Rules of Procedure says – if most votes do not include 1/3 votes from each entity's territory, and there is no third from Republika Srpska, the chairman of the House and his deputies will meet as a commission and try to secure consent within 3 days after the vote. So, as a member of the College, I'm looking for a House of Representatives session on this subject, now I'm saying it publicly, unless we decide today within 3 days that we know where we are 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13926	Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13927	Here I am a little surprised, uh, somehow to say with this attitude. First of all, I'd just like to invite a colleague and otherwise the chairman, and I'm saying this as a member of the College, to be truly principled and consistent. We have already had several times on the agenda of points around which we did not have an entity vote and it was always at that moment we do not have a statement now, there was a deal we leave for the next and, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure we always had our position. Don't do it now, we don't have to do it this time, we don't have to say, we don't have any threats, we don't have to do it with a new session, we're really going to act collegiately, we're going to act like this House deserves to be done by the Rules of Procedure, and I think as if we've been building this kind of practice so far, here I'd like to act today, and when it comes to this point, no matter who wants to do it, maybe today, etc. I don't see any reason, I don't think it's in the midst of this 64 Parliament, or this Bosnia and Herzegovina, or in a special way this agenda point, and it concerns the Public TV system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13928	Thank you. Here I would read to you a member of the 85th decision-making position (3) – if most votes do not include 1/3 votes from the territory of each entity, this is the case now means no, the chairman of the dom and his deputies will meet as a commission and try to secure consent within 3 days after the vote. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we need to meet within three days, I don't mind meeting right now after this second session and seeing if we have consent or not. But it does not imply that there will be a session to vote on in the second round of voting within 3 days. So that's the situation, that's how I see this situation. Therefore, there is no agreement to vote immediately in the second round on this issue, and we move on to the vote on Amir Fazlić's proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13929	We have no purpose, no law has been passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13930	And it wasn't adopted, okay. And as we're going to do, we're going to vote on the next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13931	Let's go to the next point...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-2.u13932	Well, the conclusions, since there is no agreement on this, will be voted upon in the second round of voting on this law. We're going to vote on item 12. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16, from 04.03.2016 (Law in Second Reading). We vote in the second round on the bill, well, this is some kind of mistake, so we vote in the second round. For 28, v. 4, abstention 1. There is a general majority and there is an entity majority, the bill has been passed. Point 13. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-929/16, from 21.03.2016). We are voting on a proposal to appoint MPs Senad Šepić, Diana Zelenika and Đorđo Krčmar in the Interim Joint Commission. For 24, v. 1, abstention 9. There are general and entity majority and a proposal from the Interim Joint Commission was adopted. 65 Let's go to point 14. – Report by the College of the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2015, act No: 01-09-1205/16, since 21.04.2016. We vote in the second round on receiving information. For 23, v. 5, abstention 6. There's a general and entity majority, and we've accepted the information. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Nikola Lovrinović. So, the conclusion is to remind you: The Parliamentary House of Parliament asks the Prosecutors of BiH to answer the questions asked and expects the Parliamentary Assembly to co-operate fully with the democratic and constitutional postulates of the division of authorities and on the basis of the powers of one and other institutions. Did I read this correctly? Here's a vote on the conclusion. For 13, versus 14, abstention 7. No general majority, not supported. Point 15. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 27 April 2016, which reads: "The PSBiH House of Representatives calls on the competent authorities of the City of Mostar to eliminate inappropriate street names in Mostar, which bear the names of fascist NDH officials Mile Budak, Jure Francetić, Ante Vokić and Mladen Lorković", act No 01-50-1 1254/16. We vote in the second round on the adoption of the initiative. For 23, v. 5, abstention 5. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, means the motion for an initiative has been adopted. We're going to point 16. – Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, due to the change of parliamentary majority – Proposer: College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Act No: 01-50-1-1384-1/16, since 14.06.2016. We're voting on the adoption of the motion for a decision. For 20, v. 5, abstention 9. There is a general and entity majority and a decision has been adopted. Point 17. – Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, Act No: 01-50-1-1384-2/16, since 14.06.2016. We're voting on the adoption of the motion for a decision. For 24, against six, abstention four. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, we adopted the proposed decision. Point 18. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in the fight against crime, No. 01.02-05-2-1420/16, from 16/05/2016 (the delayed statement at the 30th session, held on 24.05.2016). We're voting on giving consent to ratification. For 33, against none, held 1. There's a general and entity majority, we've given consent to ratification. 66 I would like to conclude the 31st session and note that we are continuing to continue the work of the 5th emergency session of the House, and the next regular session is scheduled for 27 June 2016. Thank you, please stay in the O.R. just to prepare technical conditions and see if the invited guests should be brought into the O.R. Session completed at 3:18 p.m.
