ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10383	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 23rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. The session also invited a representative of the EU Delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose report is on the agenda of today's session and representatives of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency whose information is on today's session agenda. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak has sent word that for justified reasons he is unable to attend the House session. Deputy Foreign Minister Mr. Brkić sent a notice that he was unable to participate in the 23rd session of the House due to his official trip. The absence was justified by representative Saša Magazinović. According to the Service's information, 36 MPs are present at the moment. So I'm realizing that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your invitation, it means for the session, in accordance with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 172. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Damir Bećirović to the BiH foreign minister; Amir Fazlić to the BiH foreign minister. Representatives Bećirović and Fazlić asked a question in oral form at the 19th session of the House, but did not receive an oral response due to the absence of BiH Foreign Minister who was not present at last session of the House. A subsequent reply has been provided in writing to those questions, but MPs will be allowed to ask questions in oral form today, of course, if they so wish. Miroslav Milovanović, BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister; Dušanka Majkić, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; Mirsad Isaković, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; Hanka Vajzović, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; Senad Šepić, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; Salko Sokolović, BiH Council of Ministers of Defence President Mirsad Mešić; Nermina Kapetanović, BiH Minister of Justice: Damir Arnaut, Minister of Justice of BiH and jasmin Emrić, Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH. These announcements are in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would thus like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been secured, in accordance with Article 171(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 The questions are addressed according to the order of the coming, and the MPs will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10384	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear guests. Here, I'll still wait for the foreign minister to show up, at least once here, so let's see a comment on that answer that's incomplete, certainly the one I got, so I'm looking for a full written answer and his comment here when it's in session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10385	Thank you. As the MP said he would wait for the foreign minister, then we move on to the parliamentary issue second. I give my word to MP Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10386	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Since the minister does not have this time, and since we understand his obligations, and with the fact that his reply in writing has not satisfied all the facts of my question, I would still wait for the minister to be present for one of the sessions and that some arguments to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10387	Thank you. Same situation, we'll wait for an answer with the minister when he's in session. I give the word to Representative Miroslav Milovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10388	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, media representatives and all present. So my question is addressed to Minister Šarović, which is – How much is the total amount in kilograms and what is the total value of exported milk and milk products in the EU since the ban on exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the EU was lifted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10389	Thank you. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister BiH Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10390	Thank you. I welcome you all. 3 The short answer to this parliamentary question is this – the data available to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations refers to, as of 1 December 2015, given that statistics for December are not yet available, of course, will be available about half a month. The first quantities of milk exported from our four approved dairy exports to the EU began from 11 September 2015, which means that these statistics can apply to some 2.5 months, and in this period, milk and milk products totalling 900,000 KM have been exported. Of which: yogurt in quantity of 268 tonnes, cheese of 45 tonnes, hard cheese with a maturity of more than 60 days, milk and cream powdered 11 tonnes and some other type of milk and milk products in small quantities. I said we'd have the data in December during the month of January. This is a solid result, I would say, given that the first quantities started on September 11th and that an appropriate period of takeover or return of the previously lost market at a time when Bosnia and Herzegovina could not export milk and milk products back 2.5 years. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10391	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10392	So, you're as resolute minister along with your entity colleagues doing your job with regard to removing those barriers, we'll see how long it takes. Whether a solid result or not, in principle, does not matter, my question has been addressed for reasons why much greater public story is being created that manufacturers from Bosnia and Herzegovina have received space in the EU, etc. That is not so because EU countries have very radical views when it comes to entering their markets. That is why it is important, I regret that there is no Council of Ministers here to attend a future period, and since most of these MPs here are an accent on the protection of domestic production, on the care of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to deal more with your bilateral or trilateral and any other talks with EU representatives, that they do not see us as some external factor, because the quantities that come to Bosnia and Herzegovina are 100 times higher than what is leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina to the EU. My work in Parliament in the future will be more, I will be more potent on this issue and I expect, therefore, in this sense
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10393	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10394	A little more co-operation, not only with you, but with other members of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10395	I give my word to MPs Dušanka Majkić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10396	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. My first question is: will the chairman of the Council of Ministers appear until the end of this agenda, because a large number of parliamentary questions are intended for him, including mine? If there is no Council of Ministers chairman, we have no one to ask. So this is already not knowing which case, these questions are becoming meaningless anymore. Because last time I couldn't ask the Foreign Minister's question, he wasn't there, and here he is today, and I had to put it into another initiative, and here we have now the Chairman's Council of Ministers, so maybe we should cut this out. It wouldn't be weird if we were the only Parliament to end something like this, because we don't, objectively we can't get answers. I ask you to do everything, use your authority, to ensure that, at least when we ask questions, members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman are here. So, I ask you to tell me – is there any chance that the chairman will show up. If that doesn't mean that no one who intended for him can ask me that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10397	Thank you. Is there anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers authorized by the chairman to respond? No, I don't. Thank you. Here, at this point, we can only conclude that there is no chairman of the Council of Ministers, and that someone else from the Council of Ministers is not authorized to respond. Let's go with the next question. I give my word to President Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10398	I thank the chairman. I want to welcome you all and wish you a successful session today. My question was so addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but regardless of his absence, I want to ask that question for a simple reason, which is quite relevant. I ask the question – When can we expect the Internet Trade Act? So a brief explanation would be that in the world Internet trade takes over primate. So there are countries where even 37% of the trade is done this way. In our country there are also companies dealing with this trade, but therefore they are not defined by law. There is a very large area here for manipulation, i.e. for illegal traffic and goods and money, so I would point out, therefore, this issue to the Council of Ministers chairman, especially if we have in mind that this Internet trade can be done from anywhere, there must not be, therefore, a customs number, it does not have to have a warehouse, it can deal with international trade, etc., etc. I think this law is quite necessary and urgent. Thank you. That would be the question, I'm sorry that the Council of Ministers is missing, but let's keep it for a second time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10399	Thank you. And this time, does any of the Council of Ministers have the authority to respond? 5 Here and with this question we will wait for the answer when the chairman of the Council of Ministers is present. We're moving on to the next parliamentary issue. I give my word to MPs Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10400	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome all present. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, in fact, concerns the Directorate for Direct Taxation, which, of course, involves construction, construction, reconstruction, equipment or maintenance of border crossings. Since we know the situation at border crossings, and here it is spoken of, the Honorable Chairman Džaferović once drew attention to this attention, the Director of the Border Police has, on several occasions, in co-operation with the Defence and Security Commission, pointed out that there is a lot of problems there, and I was particularly prompted by a letter from the Association of Carriers for Internal and International Transport of Republika Srpska, who referred very serious complaints to the situation at border crossing points, so I asked the Council of Ministers on the Indirect Taxation Administration to respond to how total they are, the Administration of Murders and Revenues on this basis, and so there are expenditures, how total revenues the Administration for indirect taxation according to all the grounds of border crossings and customs terminals, I sought this at the same level of funding in the period. I asked for an oral response at least like that in, but to be delivered to me in writing, and in writing the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10401	Thank you very much. Here, since the question has been asked to the Council of Ministers, does anyone from the Council of Ministers want to answer this question? If not, there remains a parliamentary question to be delivered and a reply from the Council of Ministers in writing. We're moving on to the next parliamentary issue. I give my word to Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10402	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So, my question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it is not here today, we will in principle open it with some arguments and, of course, at the next session, we will continue to discuss this issue, and this is the following – What has the current Council of Ministers of BiH done specifically so far and what exactly plans for 2016 for increasing the number of employees, especially youth employment and preventing emigration from Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an emphasis on preventing leaving our country of young educated people? 6 A brief, therefore, does not require a particular explanation for this question. We are witnessing that this is probably the biggest problem for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. People are moving out of our country. In particular, young, educated and educated people are moving from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, I come from a place where unfortunately it's everyday practice, almost an entire village remains empty. So that's why my appeal is here today. There is no Council of Ministers chairman but there is a Council of Ministers, we have those who are responsible for giving, to offer hope to people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the appeal to all of us to actively address this issue, to talk about this, that we have this on the agenda, to deal with this matter as a matter of priority. I know that in European funds, if we're going to talk about the usefulness of European funds when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, there's a lot of space, it's just the question that we're dealing with these things, that we're in the EU, that we're looking for EU funds and we're really giving some hope to people that there's life here, that there's a future here, and that these people need to fight to stay here in their own country and do that. Since there is no chairman here today, this is today, so in principle the question asked, but I will open this question again at the next session with some additional arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10403	Thank you. Do any of the Council of Ministers want to give an answer? Thank you. Here, and for this issue as well as for the previous session, we expect an answer from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10404	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here I am taking the opportunity to welcome members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, media. I refer the issue to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and that reads – A request for EU membership in Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit in January 2016. This is what the Bureau's decision last December 17th reads. The chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Dragan Čović, laid down this decision a few days ago in words – changes to the deadline will not be made, the decision taken on the basis of information and information from the Council of Ministers that all must take over and adapt to the deadline and that it does not come into consideration seeking excuses and prolonging for technical reasons. meċutim, here is how we know January is very much flowing, and how things stand above the submission of a credible and credible EU application is a major questionnaire. The above-mentioned statements and the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, do not believe that the request will be submitted in January, as well as Mr Mirko Šarović, State Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, who expressed doubts that the job will be completed by the end of January and that the application for EU membership will certainly be addressed within the first six months of this year. Added to this and that there is still no precise coordination mechanism, without which Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot handle a credible application, the situation is becoming even more difficult. Given that Bosnia and Herzegovina has received clear conditions that it must meet in order to apply for 7 EU membership to ask the Council of Ministers chairman – Is it realistic to expect that the application for EU membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina is submitted in January of this year, or that deadline has to be extended, given that part of the commitments is not yet met and whether the Council of Ministers is, I would put this on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10405	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10406	Just a moment, under the quote – really adopted a coordination mechanism without which Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot submit a credible application for membership. Here, given that there is no chairman of the Council of Ministers I suppose I won't get an answer either, but since the meeting is scheduled for February, the next session is scheduled, I hope that in that period of one month someone will be able to get the strength, here to throw this on paper or to give the next session an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10407	Thank you. Since there is no Council of Ministers chairman, does any of the Council of Ministers have the authority to answer this question? Thank you. Here, we expect this question to be answered at one of the next sessions. I give my word to Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10408	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I guess I'll get an answer because the minister is here, I'll have better luck than most of the MPs who have asked a question in public presentation of these issues, and they have no answer. Think about what this is about. So, I ask the defence minister about one of the information I read in one of the daily lists at the end of this year, and it refers to a repair of BiH Armed Forces helicopters in a company that, according to the writing, has one employee and rented garage for the operation of helicopter remonts. By using my parliamentary position with a little research, Madam Minister, I have found that it is true, and I ask you – When did you find out, and if you have found out, what did you actually do to make such phenomena not happen, because as a technically educated person, I do not need to specifically explain to you what a remont of such highly sophisticated machines means in such unconditional conditions? The ultimate consequence of all this can be life-threatening, primarily armed personnel, helicopter pilots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10409	Thank you. Secretary of Defense, Lady Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10410	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. 8 I just want to inform you that the Ministry of Defence adopted a procurement plan for this year last year, which is long ago not done in time and we are planning to publish all tenders by the end of this month when it comes to public procurement for 2016, which is why we are going to eliminate the problems we have encountered so far. But I would like to inform you, when it comes to air-engineering in Laktaša, that the Ministry of Defence has implemented a procedure on the provision of services to service and running maintenance of aircraft-technical materials, not helicopter remonting, but service and running maintenance, which includes the service and operation of spare parts, assemblies, subassemblies and related equipment, laboratory examination of the structure of the aircraft's troops, tail compartments, arms chambers of the main rotors and other sets of methods without destruction, anti-corrosan protection of parts and assemblies for aircraft and other services required by the BiH Armed Forces. The service of helicopters is not provided for by the said contract because Air Engineering does not have the capacity for these jobs. The helicopter service, i.e. 50-hour, 100-hour and three-hour inspection is carried out in 3. A battalion of logistics support from the Air Force Brigade, which is technically and humanely trained in these matters. The contract with Air Engineering Laktaši was not designed to land or take off, nor to drag helicopters into the firm's space. All works on the repair of spare parts and assemblies of the firm are carried out at the location of the Armed Forces. To provide services, the company employs aviation specialists and has signed contracts with Motorflug Germany, Helisota Litvanija, Erbas Francuska. And I note that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there really is not a large number of companies that can serve, I'm not talking about a helicopter remonting, I'm talking about repairing parts. And so it's not true that this company is remounting helicopters, it's serving spare parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10411	Thank you. -Advocacy comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10412	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, you convinced me that I didn't guess it was the service, but the current maintenance. An interesting story that comes after your address, or answer, so don't we have the capacity in the Armed Forces to do current maintenance? You say there aren't many maintenance companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you mentioned, of course, very important companies dealing with service, and in fact it's a company that's almost phantom, there's one employee, and that's true, and if necessary they hire some people. So, if we don't run the controversy about it now, I pray you, on behalf of those pilots whose lives are at stake, deal with it, rationalize it, helicopters can be maintained and in our barracks, you have enough air mechanics and do something that is normal in all countries. So it's not normal for a company with one employee to do anything within the Armed Forces. You didn't cause it, you did everything you could to keep it from happening in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10413	I give the word to MPs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10414	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished gentlemen of the chair, honourable MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers and the media. 9 My question is the Minister of Justice – What has the BiH Ministry of Justice so far done to create a State Strategy on Civil Society, or when it will refer to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on the joint register of NGOs, civil society associations, which will enable the establishment of a centralised database? In my explanation, I want to point out that I have asked this question several times, and I believe that strengthened civil society represents a key component of every democratic system and institutions must recognise it as such and that so far there has been no formalised dialogue between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the non-governmental sector. Some civil society organisations have sought to increase their capacity to monitor the EU integration process and set up a dialogue on the Reform Agenda with the EU, while civil society organisations at lower levels have failed to do so. In particular, public financing of NGOs' visas is important, it must be provided in a transparent manner and according to clearly defined criteria. Significant funds are mainly given to sports associations, we could see that in previous budgets, and tax regulations are not suitable for stimulating private donations to civil society organisations. I therefore believe that there is a need to improve the mechanism for dialogue and co-operation between the authorities and civil society organisations and to improve the legal and financial framework, and what has been informed by the European Commission in the 2015 Report on BiH, so I ask the Minister to tell me what...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10415	Thank you very much. Answer, Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10416	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The Memorandum of Understanding for the establishment of a joint register of associations and foundations in BiH was signed in 2005 to establish a system that allows rapid access to information on all associations and foundations operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to enable mechanisms to help curb the activities of associations and foundations that can be linked to terrorism, money laundering or other forms of organised crime. The memorandum agreed, among other things, to establish a common register as a single base for all domestic and foreign NGOs registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to be run by the BiH Ministry of Justice in electronic form. During 2013, the Ministry of Justice formed and delivered the entities and Brcko District to the opinion of the Framework Law on the Registration of NGOs, which supported the adoption of the proposed law by the Government of the Federation and the Brcko District. On this occasion, the government of Republika Srpska pointed out in its Opinion on the Framework Law that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in charge of the issue of NGOs, and that at that time the call for the signed Memorandum as a basis for the adoption of the law has been incomplete, since the signing of it has been more than 9 years, and that the circumstances have changed. In 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted an Action Plan to address the observed shortcomings listed in the Moneyval Report of the Committee, which, among other things, refers to statistics on the number of non-governmental NGOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the lack of a clear mechanism for mutual recognition of NGOs and the possibility of 10 people under the same name registering at different levels. With that in mind, the Justice Ministry launched a project to sign a technical co-operation agreement, set up an association website and a foundation registered at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as soon as a website was established on which all interested people would have access by electronic means.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10417	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10418	the bases of all registered NGOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the seat, or place of registration. The site would show separate lists of associations and trusts according to the place of registration, i.e. the competent register and not the collection, so as to allow search engines to show all NGOs registered under the same name entered in the search engine with a clear indication of the place or level of registration. This would greatly create legal certainty, both for members of existing NGOs, for those who want to register the organisation, and for those who come into contact with them in legal traffic, because even if there are several organisations registered under the same name at different levels on the website, they would be aware that it exists. It is for the members of the association to be reregistered at the level at which they are registered or the fact that one or more organisations operate under the same name. This would finally e-mail all databases and lead to a final indicator of how many NGOs are registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Justice Ministry has so far called for all the counties, the Federation and the Brcko District Court, while the project will be financed by the European Commission. We expect the signing of the agreement during this month, and the establishment of a website this spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10419	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment on the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10420	The chairman, I appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Justice, or the Council of Ministers, but I personally think that this is going very slowly. The fact is that you have not adopted a strategy, a state strategy on civil society, although the European Commission has repeatedly warned you about it, and the fact is that this common register still does not exist, which was particularly demonstrated by the dissatisfaction of civil society in the 2014 protests. I'm in Parliament this morning, and I saw that you delivered to the parliamentary procedure, and I expected you to tell me that, the bill on amendments and additions to the BiH Associations and Foundations Act. What I call on you as a representative and ask you to respect the opinion of the Legislative Sector which works with the Joint Secretariat, which has already warned the Ministry of Justice several times that it does not deliver consolidated texts in the parliamentary procedure, you do not respect members of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People and the House of Representatives, in particular Article 105. The House of Representatives, his Rules of Procedure, and Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. And I appreciate the efforts you've made so far, but I ask that these activities be accelerated and that we respect the European Commission's position. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10421	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10422	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I asked the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I don't know who he has ordered to answer, in any case the question is – when will the Council of Ministers take the measures required in Chapter 4, point 2(3) of the European Commission's 2015 progress reports on the environment and climate change, i.e. when: 1. Publish and begin to apply the country's contribution document... The 2015 UN Climate Change Agreement? 2. Establish a harmonised framework for environmental protection and climate change, improve strategic planning and implementation of AKI in these areas? 3. Strengthen administrative capacity and control system, and improve my institutional coordination between all competent oregants? A brief explanation: In the 2015 Progress Report, the European Commission explicitly asked Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement these concrete measures, which I read in 2016. Taking into account, I have not mentioned international obligations, but rather the increasing pollution of the environment across the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please inform me of the measures to be taken in order to implement all of these in this year, and how this is specifically requested in the Progress Report, which the European Commission has recently delivered and which is back on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10423	Thank you very much. Your question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but on the same issue, ask the Minister of Justice to give you an oral response at the session. Here, on behalf of the chairman, Minister Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10424	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Since it is practically three questions here, and that time is limited, only in fragments will I give the shortest answer, and if the MP wants an answer we can also deliver in writing. At its 26th session, on 6 October this year, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations a document intended for the mitigation of climate change in BiH, and this document is in fact a contribution from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the fight against climate change, and this document was presented at COP 21, or the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. 12 The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has taken action, further activities following the maintenance of the COP in Paris in order to implement the procedure for the signing of the Paris Agreement in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements. The translation of the Paris document has been uraċen and has been delivered to competent authorities in entities and Brcko District. And, after receiving an opinion on this document, we expect Bosnia and Herzegovina to be ready to sign this document in April 2016 in New York, as well as in other countries. The answer to the second question in the shortest would be this – Bosnia and Herzegovina has no law, nor a framework law on the protection of the natural environment at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This only issue in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina is partly expressed in the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Article 9, where the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is given, I would say, powers to define policies, basic principles, coordination of activities, coordination of the plans of entity bodies, etc. Republika Srpska believes there is no need to pass a framework law from this area at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and suggests that entity laws be harmonised, that is, harmonised. To answer the second, or third question concerning capacities, i.e. strengthening environmental institutions, this would be the shortest read – the European Commission has funded a project called Strengthening Environment Institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and preparing for pre-accession funds, etc. Enviis project. The implementation of this project would improve strategic planning and implementation in the area of environmental protection, and the project itself was completed in the past in 2014. There are a number of draft documents that emerged as a product of this project, but the continuation of the project was delayed by insisting Republika Srpska that the implementation of the project and these documents be postponed until the adoption of a co-ordination mechanism at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The product of EnviIS, as I said, is a draft strategy for harmonising rules with the legal acquis of the EU, action plans for the implementation of BH strategy in entities and Brcko District, a draft environmental protection policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, draft plans for implementation of drinking water directives, the Urban Water Directive, the Flood Directive and the Waste Disposal Directive, as well as action plans for implementation... plans, as well as draft procedures for the coordination of activities and draft guidelines for ratification and compliance with obligations under international agreements in the environment. By adopting these documents, Bosnia and Herzegovina would meet the EU's conditions for the use of IPA funds, but by adopting these documents, administrative capacity in the environment sector in the relevant institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina would be strengthened, and this will happen when, I would say, the implementation of this project and these documents, which as a product of this project, are referred to the appropriate necessary procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10425	Thank you, Minister. I didn't warn on time, given that the minister gave, in a way, three answers. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10426	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Look, it's very clear that these are not three questions, but these are the three measures the European Commission is looking for, that's on page 53. Progress reports list three measures that the European Commission says should be implemented in 2016, and I have asked only one question that is being asked – when will 13 measures be implemented? After all, if I had asked three questions, I am convinced, the President-in-Office, that you would not have forwarded them to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, because the Rules of Procedure allow me only one oral question, this one, so we are clear on this matter. This, however, is the next, respected Ministers, the European Commission in the Progress Report explicitly says that Bosnia and Herzegovina has implemented these three measures in 2016. I have received a satisfactory answer only on the first measure, and it seems to me from your answer that the other two will not be implemented in this year and then we will have a more negative report in this part when we reach the 2016 progress report and with this in relation, since I am dissatisfied with your response, I would ask you to deliver it to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10427	Thank you very much. First of all, Your Honor, I didn't say in any way that you asked three questions, I just said that the minister gave three answers. And I have no right to correct his views, whether they're attitudes or they're answers, he gave them so, so in no way do I repeat again, I didn't say that you asked three questions but just one question. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10428	I thank the chairman. How did I get the information that the Bosnia and Herzegovina Railway Public Corporation adopted the Investment Plan in BiH for the period 2015-2020 with projection until 2025, asking the Ministry of Communications and Transport – What project activities, covering both the period and the time period, were planned for renovation and reconstruction, i.e. the infrastructure rehabilitation of the Dobrljin single-track section, i.e. The border with the Republic of Croatia, the Bosnian Nova or the Novi City-Bihać-Osredci-border with the Republic of Croatia or so on. The U.S. railways, as well as the corresponding railway infrastructures? In a brief explanation, I would like to point out that I tried to find answers to the question asked, but I could not find answers in the information and documents publicly available, although this House adopted a conclusion in the earlier period which proposed the project, i.e. this single track track, etc. The U.S. Strip sets as a priority for inclusion in investment plans. There's no information on this project on the public portals of the BH Railway Corporation. What it has on the portals is very scarce information and data and some graphic images that, unfortunately, do not treat this priority line. So on the Ministry's website there was no publication of this investment plan in the railway infrastructure, nor could I find information
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10429	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10430	which is related to the earlier conclusions of this distinguished House. Please respond. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10431	Thank you. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Communications and Transport, Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10432	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. As we received this question only in yesterday, we need time to prepare the answer, so that, based on the Rules of Procedure, we will prepare the answer for one of the next sessions, and we will provide the esteemed representative with the answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10433	I thank the Deputy Minister, Mr. Dalipagić. Does the representative want to comment on this response?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10434	I have already pointed out in the context of the asked question that this House once debated and, in some ways, pointed out that it was a priority service direction and obliged the authorities and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to launch activities in the realisation and preparation of this pruning direction for reconstruction and modernisation. The investment plan in the railway infrastructure is, I've received such information, published. I didn't find him anywhere. If he's published then I don't see any reason to have so much time to answer in that plan where he is, where is the project to rehabilitate the Union Strip. What is the time period in which, and given the investment plan, project activities will be launched, and what is planned to do to finally make this very important infrastructure project?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10435	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10436	The railway track, the UN railway, which is the backbone of the economic development of the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to finally become and bear that development must be respected primarily by these institutions of this country in the conclusion of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10437	Thank you. And now we're moving on to the establishment of the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The College of the House of Representatives, in an extended composition, considered the proposal from Senad Šepić to include three new points in the agenda, decided to consider proposals for agenda items, nor to include them in the agenda of the House meetings if the applicant did not also deliver the materials for those points. 15 From the previous agenda, in accordance with the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, since the applicant has not delivered the correction of the observed deficiencies, he is asked by the College of the Home to remove the following points: point 6. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: SNSD and SDS representatives, issue: 01,02-02-1-27/15, of 17.12.2015. (first reading) Point 7. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: representatives from SNSD and SDS clubs, issue: 01,02-02-1-28/15, of 17.12.2015. (first reading) I point 9. Proposal for a law on the use and management of property in the state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: Šemsudin Mehmedović and Zaim Backović, issue: 01-02-1-35/15, of 25.12.2015. (first reading) Point 14. Consideration of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads as follows:,, On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative for the formation of the Committee for the Selection of the Texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-50-1565/15 was removed from the session's agenda in accordance with the notice of the Constitutional Legal Commission which did not discuss the above-mentioned initiative because the motion was not present to the Committee's session. At the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights for a lack of quorum to hold a session of the Committee, the following points are removed: point 15. Consideration of the Senad Šepić parliamentary initiative, which was submitted at the 21st session, held on 10.12.2015, which reads: "I propose that you set up a point on the agenda of the next session under the title: Establishing a parliamentary group to promote the right to freedom of faith and belief, in accordance with Article 18. General Declaration of Human Rights, issue 01-50-1-1574/15. I point 16. A review of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, submitted at the 21st session, reflected on 10.12.2015, which reads: "I propose that the BiH Parliamentary House College of Representatives put the following session on the agenda as follows: Information on freedom of speech and the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special emphasis on attacks on journalists", issue: 01-50-1-1575/15. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10438	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So here, you said you took off the agenda, that you didn't put on the agenda a few important things that I suggested in the last 10 days. On January 6th, I sent a request to include a point of title – Information on the state and appearance of peer violence and violence among children in BiH with a proposal for measures. 30.12., so I will not particularly now say how current this is at the moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 30.12. I asked here in writing to the Council of Ministers to make one information that we have ready for the next session and that 16 things we can talk about. When I made a request to receive, or to include this item on the agenda, I also instructed the Council of Ministers to get two lists of material to have something today to discuss. So don't expect MPs, uh, to still be the ones looking for materials, collecting documentation, as it is called, directly addressing institutions, walking around institutions collecting materials. And since this, I repeat, is such an important thing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would have asked you, and I heard that the Council of Ministers had this point, we have here the Minister of Civil Affairs, so he verbally today informs us about this matter, so he said, and the Minister of Human Rights was so involved in these activities, what they had on the Council of Ministers a few days ago and that we conclude here today, that we are now strengthening all of us as a House of Representatives and that we commit the Council of Ministers to prepare material for us until the next session so that we can, as they call it, quality and discuss and adopt a package of measures. And the other thing is one standard initiative, we have had ten of these so far, so each one has been included in the agenda without any particular, as it is called, arguments, as far as the House of Representatives commits the Council of Ministers only to initiate the technical procedure of amending one state contract, in this case the State Treaty on Borders with the Republic of Croatia, with a concrete explanation, there is no more material than what you can see here in my hands, so that we can have a quality debate on this current initiative. So, it reads as follows: – The Council of Ministers and other competent institutions and bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina undertakes, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings, to urgently initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the said Treaty, and in the direction of ensuring the retegorisation of the small-scale crossings of Zagrad, Plazikur and Hadjin Potok to the border crossings for international passenger traffic. I've been talking about border issues in the Un-San canton for a long time. One of the solutions to how we're going to solve these impasses and crowds, which now exist in the UN-San canton, and for three hours, we're going to solve it, is to launch an initiative to redefine the border crossings into border crossings. I think we have fully prepared materials in the sense that today we commit the Council of Ministers to open this story and that in the next 30 days we have feedback on what has been done. So I would ask you, and here are your fellow parliamentarians to support that we force people, both in the Council of Ministers and in our institutions, to do their job more quickly and efficiently. Please support these two proposals, that we have these as agenda points at today's session. And I have the materials, and I'm going to give these materials to the secretary now, so that you can...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10439	Thank you very much. Niko Špirić discusses the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10440	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests. Well, here I am today trying to avoid, if possible, some barren political debates and when it comes to this agenda. The very structure of the agenda says that there are not many important points here that are related to the fate of Bosnia and Herzegovina apropo of its European pathway, nor to the internal arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will ultimately serve only to talk about the efficiency of this House’s work by the number of sessions held. While that is the case, I propose that today we take down the third item of the agenda, that is – the draft law on non-working 17 days during religious holidays and that we charge the Ministry of Resolution and the Council of Ministers to offer framework law within a reasonable period of time, so on state and religious holidays. And that would make perfect sense to me. I'm afraid if today's debate opens that we won't come up with a proposal or this Law, and we're going to send a message that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a religious state without being able to pass a framework law on national holidays and that it's not a secular state. That's why I think it's much more meaningful, it's harder, that the Council of Ministers, if need be, spend more time, but to offer a single law. We've tried it in the past, and I know it's not going easy, and I know that there have been these attempts to offer a bill like this, and I've been sharing the thought that it's better to offer a whole law. And if we passed a law like this we would send a message that was not good, because being able to pass a law on religious holidays, rather than being able to pass a law on national holidays actually speaks of this internal atmosphere in Bosnia and Herzegovina which is unfortunately not good. And that is why I propose that this item of the agenda be removed, that we put in charge of the resolution ministry and the Council of Ministers, let them say what time they need and offer a single law on state and religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that would be a lot more useful than this. But I don't mind if you agree and remain this item of the agenda, but I'm afraid it will be thrown out of politics and we won't adopt this proposal today either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10441	Representative Denis Bećirović, debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10442	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, our duty, all MPs in the State Parliament, is that, above all, we respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the provisions of the Constitution of BiH. With that in mind, no matter what I assume you're going to give an interpretation that this is a mandatory item of the agenda, item 3 relating to religious guards, I'd like to say and invite you to remove this item of the agenda from today's session for a very clear reason. In fact, there are very dangerous anti-day and anti-constitutional structures, findings and evaluations in the official explanation of the Law. One of those who came here to Parliament says that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have the State Holidays Act, and that this Law on Religious Holidays should be adopted. I want to make it very clear that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has its holiday laws, and as long as they don't change, they're in effect. In the event that this and such a law on religious holidays would be passed, with an official explanation as it is written here, it would be in a memorial to state holidays, so on November 25th and March 1st as the Independence Day. So I think and invite you to take this point off the agenda, not to discuss it at all today, and try to reach out in one normal procedure, or to amend and supplement existing laws or to a new law on national holidays. I will not speak of other political aspects of this issue, but here I have based solely on the business and constitutional obligations of us as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10443	Thank you. Debate, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10444	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I thus propose, and support the discussion, that the point of the BiH Religious Holidays Act be removed from the agenda for the reason that, if you notice, three basic religious communities are scheduled for five days off, paid days off. I think the law is discriminatory because it doesn't predict what with those other people who don't belong to any of these religious communities, number one. Under the number two, or four, excuse me, under the number two, five paid days we in Bosnia and Herzegovina unfortunately celebrate everything. If you call anyone during any religious holiday in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they won't find anyone but the guards. What does that really mean? It means that we and our employers will be forced to pay holiday days for everyone, which, of course, is not fair. It is necessary to consider whether five days off is a measure for such a thing, and of course by supporting these discussions of my predecessors. The second question, on which I answered, is why the initiative for the establishment of the Commission for the establishment of the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem was downloaded. Gentlemen, I was present yesterday from nine o'clock in the morning until 5:30 in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I didn't even get a registered invitation to attend a session of the Constitutional Commission that took down the agenda because I wasn't present. I'm really interested in who called me, when, and in what way? If you'd called me orally, I would have naturally responded to the call. Therefore, here I pray that future errors do not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10445	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10446	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Not wanting to spread further discussions about the agenda and about this law, as if we're already going into the discussion phase, I just want a few things. Whoever did this Law is a person who doesn't know the Dayton Peace Agreement, or tends to say that the Dayton Peace Agreement doesn't exist. One of the members is that the full legislative regulations, inherited, at the time of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, are in force until a new one is adopted. Let him who has worked this Law explain to me how this segment will single out without revoking the existing holiday law, a valid law that is in force under the Dayton Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10447	Please counsel, this is a debate on the agenda, not the essence of the law. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10448	Now I'm gonna say it. I ask that it be taken off because, I'm scarring, I'm looking, I'm asking, I'm initiating this item of the agenda to be taken down, because it will come through a possible debate and adoption and non-adoptment, into confusion, and we'll have a situation where we don't even know for ourselves what we want. 19 Why? I explained the first part. Secondly, I ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs do they even know how many religious communities we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which have international status, not local, do they even know? We don't just have Catholicism, Islam, Orthodoxism. What about Buddhism? Do you know we have a Buddhist temple in the middle of Sarajevo? Judeism, Hinduism, I can now name them here 50 religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10449	I'm warning you once again, you're not following the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10450	Thank you. I suggest you take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10451	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10452	I thank the Honorable Chairman. If so, I refer to Rule 71 (1) and Rule (2) of the Rules of Procedure. So it is not just about not keeping the agenda, but Article 71 (1) of the Rules of Procedure clearly states – at the beginning of the session the MP has the right to request that the optional item of the agenda be omitted, the optional point. And then it goes on to say, leaving the mandatory points of Article 70(2) of this Rules of Procedure is not allowed. Therefore, this proposal for a law is a mandatory point, in accordance with Article 70(2). So I would ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to suspend the requirements for the removal of mandatory points. So, MPs, when it comes to abandoning, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to simply ask for the abandonment of optional points, and this item of the agenda is not the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10453	I thank the honourable representative. Each representative has the right to submit and propose, and everyone commits this Rules of Procedure, to conduct. What you just said, everyone will get an answer, according to the Rules of Procedure,... waiting in terms of their initiative and their proposal. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10454	I thank the chairman. I was just about to say what my dear colleague Arnaut said. We all know here that this is a mandatory item of the agenda in the Rules of Procedure and that clearly there has been a certain policy already on the agenda. Our position on this law was clear and it was so when Minister Nović proposed it twice, when those who are here today against this Law from his party were the most fierce critics, and then they were killed. I call on colleagues to read the 2011 and 2013 stenograms of these sittings here. takoċe I must express my surprise that, here we hear the SNSD is looking for the State Holidays Act. I don't know what they're gonna say about this after the Milorad Dodik session. It is a mandatory point, on the basis of these discussions, that 20 can possibly withdraw or do not withdraw the law, it is up to it to decide. I would personally like the Proposer to withdraw the law himself, to avoid such things as are already happening on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10455	Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10456	Thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I don't have the ambition to fight some political struggle here with people who don't think like us in SNSD. Whoever it is and whatever political parties it came from. The SNSD's position is quite clear. We recognize all tendencies, both this Law and some other laws. And the truth is, of course, in some past times there have been some suggestions that some SNSD people have been participated to, but the fate of those laws was known. The SNSD did not vote in favour of these laws, MPs at the House of Representatives did not vote in favour of these laws and I do not see anything controversial. Naturally, some of our indications, some of our political views, which are presented today, do not mean that these laws will be passed in this House. We will certainly not give up our relationship with the Republic in the BiH Parliament. Time will show through both the debate and the way our political views are brought forward, through the voting process. We absolutely don't have the ambition to go into further discussion. Each of the MPs has the right to take their stand, but the final decision is made by party authorities and, of course, the club of MPs and MPs in the act of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10457	Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10458	Thank you. Well, I'm just going to hand over the Košarac of MPs to a distinguished colleague, when these laws were here, where it's quite clear that the SNSD MPs, when twice this Law was, supported. takoċe here I have the records and stenograms of these two sessions, so, here's your colleague Košarac, so you see the views of your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10459	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10460	Since this part about mandatory points is undeniable, I would just like to say a sentence concerning Mr. Šepić's proposal. So, the College itself is often inconsistencies. There are initiatives that automatically put on the agenda and there are initiatives waiting for the whole procedure, which is to go to the competent commission, and then..., the Council of Ministers often, and eventually just comes to Parliament. So, I've put up with an initiative that needs to go all that way. I don't see 21 reasons why, in this case, neither colleague Šepić would go for a brief procedure, for the simple reason that he may be ready for that point, but we're not all ready for the rest of us. In order to have a quality debate on this subject, we must have all the materials, be acquainted with everyone about what he wants and what he gives the initiative for. So I don't think anything new should be... this agenda that's already been established.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10461	Thank you. Amir Fazlić, debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10462	On behalf of the SDA MPs' club, and given the different attitudes and discussions on the agenda, I request a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10463	Thank you. Here, I'm taking a 15-minute break at the request of the SDA Club. I'm calling on the president of the SDA club to explain the reasons for asking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10465	Here, we took a break for further consultations and we suggest you proceed with the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10466	Thank you. This way, we had a registered debate officer, Hanka Vajzović, but since during the break, there were some consultations in terms of the debate on the agenda, and Minister Adil Osmanović asked for a word, so first of all, we ask the Minister to address us in connection with these discussions on point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10467	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the College, honourable MPs. With regard to the draft law on non-working days at religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to say only that, and to remind you that the basic contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Vatican, with the additional Protocol (the Official Messenger of BiH), is signed and ratified: 10/07, the basic contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Serbian Orthodox Church (the Official Messenger of BiH), international contracts number: 6/08, members of the 9th of these contracts, has been assumed to adopt a special law by Bosnia and Herzegovina the Unworked Days Act at the time of religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 22 After consulting with members of the College of this High House, I, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, withdraw this proposed Law, to consult a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10468	I thank the minister. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10469	So, since the minister is also here, we have one piece of information that also the chairman of Zvizdić and the esteemed minister Osmanović, have voted for such a bill. If that's true, Minister, we'd like to know about the one who came before the MPs today. The second thing, when you refer to certain contracts, I'm surprised you didn't first call for the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the Council of Europe. Why didn't you call on the European Convention on Human Rights, which has an extant character in Bosnia and Herzegovina, without talking about this third aspect, so which speaks of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina currently having two national holidays, and according to this proposal and the official legal explanation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina there are no national holidays. So I'd like to know if you and Mr. Zvizdić voted in favour of this proposal, which today is before the MPs?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10470	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10471	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to join my colleague Šepić's proposal to put a point on the agenda regarding the Treaty or the revision of the Treaty with the Republic of Croatia on border crossings. It's a contract that's caused a lot of trouble on the ground. I think it should be extended, not only to those border crossings, but to re-examine the whole Treaty, not to mention that it is no longer as simple as it was at the time of the conclusion of such a contract. It is no longer a Treaty on border crossings with the Republic, the neighbouring country, but with the EU, and it would be good to have a more comprehensive approach to these issues. I'm saying, there's a lot of trouble in the field, and I'm here to make my proposal, so I'll deliver it in writing. I think it would be important this time, I say, because of these problems that have occurred on the ground, in the mere time since the contract was concluded, that it would be good to seriously form a group, a commission that would do so. And in any case, I support that it be put on the agenda as soon as possible, whether today or sometimes, to prepare it for us and make a commitment to the Council of Ministers to do so. I mean here and the retegorization, along with these all who have been given in this proposal, but also the establishment of a border crossing at sea in Neum, etc. There are a lot of questions that should be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10472	Thank you. 23 At this point I see no more accepted. I'm closing the debate on the agenda and we're referencing a few things that were like debates on the agenda. As far as point 3 is concerned, I would not speak and now appeal to the business provisions because it is already somehow within the agenda and this debate, and correcting the wrong allegations, in some ways. This point was a mandatory item of the agenda and we had no right to leave it from this session. meċutim, after all these discussions and, behold, the words of a member of the Council of Ministers, this item of the agenda has been withdrawn by the motionor and it will not be on the agenda of this session today. As for Mr Senad Šepić's proposal on the initiative to put these points on the agenda, we remain at the stand that we have taken to appoint these initiatives of the representatives in the discussion with him the College of Commissioners and to be at the next session of the House of Representatives to discuss them. I think that's one initiative, and here's a colleague of Hanka Vajzović's, so everything that applies to these points will be at the next session after the College determines the competent commission and we get, right, materials. As for Šemsudin Mehmedović, he also referred in the debate at point 3 but also to the question that he was not invited to the Constitutional Commission as a proponent of a determined initiative. He was checking our secretariat and they said the call was sent to Šemsudin Mehmedović. We still can't say anything, whether, in any way and why he didn't and whether the call came. Zaim Backović thus referred to the 3rd point, Nikola Špirić, Denis Bećirović. So here I am, at this point, realizing that the 23rd session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 22nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-24/15, of 10.12.2015. (first reading); 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-25/15, of 10.12.2015. (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-30/15, of 24.12.2015. (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-36/15, of 28.12.2015. (first reading); 7. Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, applicant: European Commission, number: 01,02- 06-1538/15, of 03.12.2015; 8. Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers Reform Agenda, applicant: Council of Ministers, Number: 01,02-50-11-1383/15, of 28.10.2015; 9. Information according to the conclusions of the House of Representatives, issue: 01-50-1-15-13/15, of 10.06.2015, adopted at the 13th session of the House of Representatives, applicant: Regulatory Agency for Communications BiH, material number: 01-50-1-572-1/15, of 25.12.2015; 24 10. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Combating Corruption – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses, issue: 01,02-50-14-1654/15, of 21.12.2015; 11. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law No: 01,02-02-1-12/15, since 06/08/2015).). Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 22nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives You've all got a record. Any objections? I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the argument at point one. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10475	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I would actually comment on the questions I asked, but I didn't get the answers. That's why I signed up to say that already three parliamentary questions I asked the Ministry of Transport and I didn't get an answer, one question I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers I didn't get an answer, and the last question I asked the Minister of Security didn't get an answer. So, I'm saying, I can't comment today, but I'm asking you as a College to make an additional effort to finally get answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10476	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10477	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. On 29 October 2015, I asked the Honored Minister of Civil Affairs and finally got an answer. I hope Mr. Osmanović noticed that I did not get the full answer, because as far as I know in the Federation of BiH, we have 10 cantons. I got a response from seven cantons, three cantons absolutely didn't come out. Of those seven cantons to my asked questions three gave a complete answer, while four ministries gave no answer. It indicates that my question was addressed to the elimination of all segregation discriminatory features and even occurrences in these cantons. Those cantons that have a phenomenon in their area of two schools under one roof have not even mentioned in one sentence that there is this in their area, that there is, or that they are making some efforts to eliminate such discrimination in their territory, while cantons in which there is absolutely no phenomenon clearly and loudly in one sentence say – in our canton there is no phenomenon of two schools under one roof. I am disappointed that I have waited a long time for this answer that is still incomplete, and I want to know that every time I use my representation rights and remind them to provide me with a complete answer to my questions. In this response, you continue as someone co-ordinating, namely the Education Ministers' Conference, to stress that you will continue to insist and appeal to the Constitution and the law of the competent educational authorities to remind that all the problems of segregation and discrimination, in accordance with the international acts signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, are eliminated. I'm asking you how you're going to do that when in the past year, unfortunately, you only had two of these, sessions of this type, where respected ministers and ministers were present. I am takoċer disappointed that we own, i.e. there is one ministry at the federal level, which is the Ministry of Education, which is held and exists thanks to the Budget of BiH, which does not have a clear picture of all ministries at the level of the Federation of BiH, that it has their blood count, and that we do not wait three months and get some answer that is not even complete. So there are shortcomings in your answer. So the public to know that those cantons where it is present, from some daily newspapers, we can read every day how many children, families, leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, from these present answers partly to those cantons that have entitled themselves to respond, 110 children written 26 from schools in the area of these cantons, or those 4 cantons, and left Bosnia and Herzegovina with a written explanation that they are going abroad. The Lithuanian Canton, of course, didn't give its answer, so I'm actually asking myself if the minister didn't move out of Livna, because there's absolutely no one left in Livno anymore. And that's one canton where, I think, the most endangered, that this fall of birth and abandoning children and families and going abroad is the most visible. So I ask you to insist, since you are handling this conference, that I be supplied with complete answers. And if I don't have the next session, I will, of course, use the right to demand the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10478	Damir Arnaut, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10479	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would just like to point out that the question I referred to the foreign ministry on 6 November of last year has not yet been answered, and I would ask for that response to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be urinated. So the oral response I received from the minister of justice at the 20th session of this House I asked for in writing, but still, although I did not get an answer in writing at the last session of the House. So, what you told me at the 20th session, I didn't get it in writing. I still insist, I see the minister coming down, uh, with his shoulders, I insist you just deliver to me in writing what you orally said here at the 20th session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10480	Hanka Vajzović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10481	Thank you very much. Unlike today's question that no one has bothered to say that there is no answer at least, which is indicative of the Direct Taxation Authority, this time I would like to thank the Ministry of Security for what I have, even with longer waiting, provided the data and for the overall security sector, i.e. for the Ministry and 7 security agencies. I'm sorry that the material wasn't delivered earlier, it was delivered yesterday, it's just the day before this session, I haven't been more serious or more thorough about the data. However, I would like to say two three words about content, that I am not satisfied in terms of two circumstances or facts. In spite of the legal obligation that the national structure must be aligned with the population list, somewhere it is said explicitly from '91, that's what the Law says, it happens, first that the Minister of Security for Answering my question had to ask the employees, purposefully, the statement and then count them. So, according to some media reports, it was obviously neither guilty nor obliged, even exposed to inconveniences, you could have followed it, because they wanted to count, as it is said in us, blood cells, and while some of the employees for these reasons did not even want to make a statement about it. What does that say? He says they don't actually have the data requested. Then the question arises on the basis of which they respected the law or followed the 27 legal provisions given in employment. And the second thing that I've already done with a summer review, as long as I've had time, this data is also about this first, is the fact that in the Security Sector, the legal provisions on the national structure of employees are always and everywhere and not respected, but also to conclude that there's really no room too big for these big stories about so-called. Croatian question and Serbian, or Bosniak. Of course, the so-called are of course the least, almost insignificant. But here's what I'm going to do when I'm, uh, someone else when I look more closely at the delivery answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10482	Nikola Lovrinović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10483	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I welcome you. My colleagues and colleagues, and I welcome you all, all present in this House. So, I called to comment on the final response from the VSTV. Namely, I asked for one arrest case, i.e. the assumption that certain persons from the municipality of Kiseljak participated in some war crimes, and I asked for an answer as to how it might have happened that the Prosecutor's Office, this time in central Bosnia County, was therefore initiating proceedings against four persons, and in the process itself, therefore, the initiation of a court case, gave up the charge of two persons. For two persons, the procedure was carried out even until the Federation Supreme Court in... so there was no need at all for the defence to use its ability to say something in these court proceedings, because there was no evidence of it, so I asked, so what will the VSTV do according to the prosecution that works in such a way, i.e. a specific prosecutor or prosecutor in a specific case. I got a once-in-a-lifetime answer that came, a second time, similar to what I got for the first time, that it was actually something that VSTV couldn't get involved in, or interfered with, so to speak, because it's the autonomous right of the prosecutor, or the judge. But I didn't ask it as a party in the process. So it's up to me that I, as a representative, am now going to a disciplinary judge and I'm looking for protection or compensation for those persons to whom it happened. I didn't mean to say it, but I would like to join Mrs. Majkić and say we don't need the answers at all. However, I think these are extremely important mechanisms, we need to look for some other mechanism to answer specifically to the questions we ask as state representatives. That's what people in the room ask us. And on this occasion I again use the opportunity to say that I have never received any answers from the Prosecutor's Office, so on the question of the murder of travnički Hrvat returnees, police officers, for crimes in the Bikosa, for the testimony of witnesses when it comes to the search for missing Bugojanac, which seems with false testimony, etc., I have never received, some are six months old. So, we want to help, I want to help as an agent, I want to draw attention to something that happens in the area of the institutions that I refer to for an answer. Why don't they give an answer to me that's not clear. So, I didn't ask the VSTV gentlemen to run the story now with a disciplinary court, and I'm going to do that after this, so I'm going to find out who the motion attorney is, which is done, etc. When we ask them in public about the debate, about structural reform of the law, and we say that the VSTV needs to be autonomous, to appoint judges, it does, to choose them, prosecutors, etc., but when we ask them how they do and why no process of their responsibility in the process of what they do. Look, people were brought in for war crimes without any evidence. Even the court dispute was held in two, for two persons, so I don't know how it worked and there was no evidence. The defense didn't need 28 to say anything. Well, that's amazing. So what's going on, so I don't know who this prosecutor is... has been accepting such actions at all to run. I asked that, so in order to help, in order to draw attention that it can't be done that way, that VSTV has the option of choosing it as well to follow what it does, we don't just have to go through a disciplinary judge. So, I'm an agent, I'm not interested in a specific prosecutor or prosecutor so now I have something personal against him. I don't, but I'm paying attention that arrests happen, that they're not prepared, that something's wrong, that something's wrong. That's why I asked the question. I'm thanking you for the answer I finally got from the VSTV, not from the D.A.'s office. Of course, here's when I've already been referred to, asked by a disciplinary judge what would happen to a concrete prosecutor and what their assessment of this case is... because people are accused, you're looking after nothing less than a war crime. They were arrested in their house at 6:00 in the morning, I think, and 20 minutes in front of their family, there was no evidence at all. Well, I don't understand. Is that fear spreading, what it wants to accomplish? Here, thank you, but I'm going to ask a disciplinary judge.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10484	Thank you. Zaim Backović, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10485	Since I don't have the opportunity to apply for business intervention, I had to do it this way. Your Honor, according to the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to, like some others, at the moment that you exceed your discussion in one second, to stop doing the same thing to all MPs equally. Now we have a comment that lasted compared to the Rules of Procedure more than twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10486	Thank you very much. Here, for your comment, I thought you learned about this time of the Rules of Procedure. You know that the comments on the answers to oral questions and letters are not really limited, they are on these lips that are being asked by the Council of Ministers but are not limited to these. At this point, I'm closing the debate on two agendas. Moving to point three, that's it, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 13.11.2015. On 18.11.2015, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the consistency of the draft law as set out in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, which found that the bill was not fully in line with the Single Rules for 29 making legal rules in BiH institutions. For this reason, the House College decided to ask the BiH Council of Ministers to correct the observed shortcomings in the bill's proposal. The BiH Council of Ministers delivered a new text on the draft law on strike of employees in BiH institutions on 10.12.2015. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on the new text of the bill on 29 December 2015 and found that it was in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions. The competent Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system on 11 January 2016. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Representative Hazim Rančić, hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10488	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Here, I will try briefly, so I will say that I support the adoption of this Law, it is necessary and, of course, I support the procedure for protecting employees' rights with the employer, and among other things, the possibility of organising and provoking strikes. So, as a principle to me, it's an undeniable thing. Since it's about first reading, I might want to do a little problem with two things in principle. The law stipulates, or Article 15, that it is necessary to ensure the minimum working process of the strike, of course in accordance with the Council of Ministers' decision and to protect, in addition to the minimum of the process of work, public interest, general interest of citizens, general security, security of persons and property, taking particular account that the conditions of life, work and movement of persons, goods and services must be ensured. When you look at the law as a whole and as a criminal provision, I'm not sure if anyone wants to question this protected value to Article 15. The law, that they can be achieved with criminal provisions for employers and strike organisers of 250 KM to 1,000 KM, and therefore, it is possible to question this particular value, which is to be protected, through the organisation of the strike. And I think the purpose of monetary sanctions, however much it may be, should not be in a way that is worth hurting protected values, nor with as much punishment as it can protect the general interest, general security, freedom, rights of citizens, the right to move people, goods, services. I think it is necessary to provide for some other measures which, through the provoking of strikes as an unquestionable instrument for the fight of workers for their economic and social rights, would therefore be necessary to provide for elements of the protection of these values. The criminal provisions provided for are certainly not so. Another thing I want to point out is that it is envisaged that strike organizers are obliged to do, so one special body from the ranks of employees who will provide security during the duration of the strike at the strike venues and at the entrance of the business premises of the employer and in the circle of the business premises. In the end, it is said that they do not have the right to use physical coercion, to justify obstacles, obstacles, etc. I am not sure that this type of body can provide security, i.e. some other laws give certain other institutions the obligation to provide security and property, and people, and citizens, and goods, and services, and general and individual, especially when it comes to outside the business premises of employers, and these are mostly offices, since this applies, this Law refers to the right of employees to strike in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we know that these are mainly institutions established by the Constitution and law and that they are usually office premises, and they are given the right to strike and in the circle, or in the rooms of those institutions. 30 So it's about first reading, I'm going to support the Law, and let's all think about the possible submission of amendments to these two things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10489	Zaim Backović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10490	I just want a little while, and I've put myself into some dilemmas, and I hope I get an answer from the promoter. Article 14 defines the Decision on strike and says the name of the organizer of the strike. Given the way the Union is and according to the laws by which the Union is organised in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have entity unions. Does this mean that in a possible dispute in which employees or employees in the state service will be the ones who, by entity law, or entity organisation of the Syndicate, will announce a strike? It's a dilemma we need to resolve. The second dilemma is the dilemma that within the entity we have legislation that specified ways of regulating the union organisation, as well as the union organisation, and it is said, in the authorities of the administration. Will the employees be organized in this way? These are great dilemmas so that we can talk further about this Law, because the law must be very precise. Here you are, says the name of the strike organizer. The independent BiH union, this one in the Federation, the Independent Union of Republika Srpska and its branch, state service employees. Will people strike separately, or warn? Is that how we're going to split up? So it is necessary to bring some other regulations in order to be able to join the overall process of resolving this issue. So, is this the Federation at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, it is. If it is the Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know that in the Confederation of Unions, here is Europe only as a state we can join, no entities. And they don't accept that, you know that. Have we joined as a state to this Confederation of Unions? We didn't. There are big dilemmas here. I'd like the Resort Minister to explain this to me. And I will allow myself the right, to read the article, since it has respected me, my longtime parliamentary colleague, has warned me to read only one member. When the chairman of the House receives an answer, he delivers a copy to whom he should, the House Chairman gives the MP the opportunity to ask the question he asked, ask for an answer, to be declared only whether or not he is satisfied. And if he's not, then he's back in writing looking for an explanation. This is a member of the 175th indent (4). There's nothing you're telling me about, unlimited.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10492	I warn you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10493	Thank you, and all of this in line with the agenda, the Strike Act, so that we don't have a problem tomorrow, possibly in the organization of the strike. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10494	Nermina Kapetanović, debate on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10495	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd just like to continue on the correct discussion of my colleague, Mr. Hazim Rančić. Respecting the right to strike employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, although deeply doubting that it will come to it for a simple reason because the thinking of the Bosnian Herzegovina public employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are people provided and I'm not sure there will be a strike, but we need to think about what happens. Therefore, I think that the resolution ministry of this Article 16 which treats the responsibility of the security strike organisers must make an absolute change in terms of responsibility. Why? Paragraph (1) states that employees who enter the strike, the Decision of the Strike Committee shall set up a special body from the staff order, which is required during the strike to provide security at strike venues, absurdly, at the entrance and within the circle of the employer's business premises. For example, what if a strike of employees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly occurs and the main deportatory is prevented here, in plain language, in the language of the doctor? It is said that the prescribed fine will range from 250 marks to 1,000 marks. I ask - what will it be, how much will it cost to be a resolution minister, or the ministry that wrote this, which is the price of human life for cardiopulmonary resuscitation, which must be done in three minutes and when a person in a state of life has to be translated either into General Hospital or the Clinical Center of Koshevo, and you have a central traffic blockade? The fine between 250 marks and 1,000 marks is not the price of human life. And instead of the text promoter dealing with the measure of things, attitude (1) as it is and the height of the imposed, threatened penalties for those who do not respect it, and I wouldn't focus just on the special body in the line of employees, I absolutely don't see why you put it in this position (4).), I think that the level of penalties threatened must be much higher and must be precisely indicated that, taking into account that state institutions are mainly in the strict centre of the city, mainly, not to block major traffic, and this has happened. It happened in situations where citizens tried to elect their basic human rights. It's their right, but the traffickers, I, as an anesthesiologist and a reanimatologist, say a car accident, and I know and I believe, because I witnessed several cases that were unfortunately late brought to the hospital because the traffic was closed. What are we gonna do about the family when it's broken? We have two endangered human lives? Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to Article 16 by reading the second reading and, of course, taking into account Mr. Hazim Rančić's discussion as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10496	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10497	Thank you. So, given that the law in the first reading interests me two things and I would ask the Proposer to answer these questions clearly here. The first question is, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the International Labour Organisation – does this law mean the application of 32 conventions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina so far, and does it mean the harmonisation of our legislation and with those conventions, but also with the acquis of the EU? And the second question – is this Law, therefore, asking the Proposer to answer, fully aligned with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, which we know about its character in our constitutional justice system, and in particular with Article 11 of the Convention?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10498	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm closing the debate one more time and we're moving on to... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10501	In this discussion, we asked a few questions to the promoter before we pleaded. I would only now ask that the Proposer answer these questions in the context of these discussions. It's no newspaper, it's a common practice here in the Paralment that after the debate, and any issues raised in the debate, we hear from the motions to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10502	It's no problem at all, if that's what the Proposer wants. No one answered, no one answered to explain, no one asked for a word, so we acted accordingly. Here, I don't see any reports at the moment. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 10.12.2015. The competent Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system on 11 January 2016. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10504	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief. Namely, this and the following two laws do not contain a constitutional basis in their reasoning. Namely, the constitutional basis cited by the bill's promoter, which is Article 4 and 4a, of the BiH Constitution, under which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is empowered to pass the law, is not the constitutional basis for the proposing. It is a member who defines the powers of the Assembly, not that the promoter can thus justify putting some law in the procedure. I ask you, this situation will probably, if it is not stopped in time, become a practice, because we see the next two so-called ones behind this law have the exact same explanation, which leads me to the fact that the proposings are not seriously involved in their work when they propose the law. When it comes to a concrete law, you can find a constitutional basis, both for this and for the next two, but it's not the one that's listed here. I ask you gentlemen from the Council of Ministers to continue in the laws on constitutional basis so that they may have, in fact, create a assumption that he enters the procedure. Nothing else. So that I don't repeat it at every session, and I'm going to repeat it at every session, every law that happens, I'm not going to do it again today, and in the future, I'm going to repeat this finding for every law, and then I'm going to decide whether or not I'm going to support the laws in which the proposer, if nothing else, is going to deal with this problem to a sufficient extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10505	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 22.12.2015. On 29 December 2015, the legislative sector submitted its opinion on the harmonisation of the draft law as set out in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, which found that the bill was not fully in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the applicant to correct the observed lack of legislation within seven days. The BiH Council of Ministers delivered a consolidated text on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Governance Act on 11 January 2016. The competent Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system on 11 January 2016. I'm opening a debate. The word has a representative, Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10507	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that it is necessary to adopt this Law as we see it and in the light of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administration, because those applying it say that, through 34 practices and its application, certain things are necessary to fix, facilitate, facilitate its application and further specify certain things. meċutim, as it has been formulated for us, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Governance Act has, in my opinion, contained a lot of problems within itself and is quite contradictory. Well, here, I'll take a few things out. First of all, therefore, the basic text of the Law, and the one we have in the procedure, should concern administrations, authorities of administrations, administrative organisations, so, therefore, it extends to professional services and technical services that have less, or should have, the same status. meċutim, Article 1 of this Act states that the Decision establishing the service referred to in Article 4 of this Article, which concerns Article 49 of the existing Law, will lay down the procedure and the authorisation for the adoption of a Regulation on the internal organisation of the service. The basic text of the Law and the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law prescribes the procedure and jurisdiction of the adoption of the Regulation on Organisation and Systematization, the internal organisation, while for the professional and technical services of this Article 1 an exception shall be made and it shall be left to the founders, such as the Presidency, such as the Parliamentary Assembly, such as the Council of Ministers, to something different to prescribe how their rules on the organisation of those services will be adopted. I'm the most controversial member of the 3rd. Law amending and supplementing the Law, which concerns Article 52 of the applicable Law. In the current Law, they remain worthy of the views (1) and (2) of the existing text of the Law, and the position (2) reads - the Internal Organisation Regulation is adopted by the Head of the Authority of the Administration, with the consent of the Council of Ministers, which is an uncontestable and common matter in the administration, less in the long run, a decade-long series of work by the Authority of Administration. However, the new Article 3 adds new positions (3), (4) and (5), which say – the Interior Organisation Regulation of the Ministry is adopted by the Minister, then the Minister for Administrative Organization, which is part of the Ministry, and the Internal Organisation of the Independent Administration is adopted by the Head of Administration. Now I'm asking all of us, if this is finally adopted and published, will all these attitudes apply? Will these internal organisation regulations be brought with the consent of the Council of Ministers, or will these elders, the managers of the Authority of Administration, the Ministry, the administrative agencies, the Directorate, the Institute, do so alone, and only with the obtaining of opinions, as said in this last position, by the Ministry of Justice, finance and vaults and the Office of Law? In point (a), point (b) is replaced by the following: The new position (4) so, excuse me, position (3), that is point (5), the new position (5) of Article 52 of the Law has been a little ravingly called for by Article 49 of this Law. Therefore, this Law on Amendments and Supplements does not have 49 members. Yes, he refers to Article 49 of the current Law, but cannot be referred to as Article 49 of this Law, when this Law has only 24 members. If the executives of the administration and the management organisations were to close their eyes a little bit and bring the regulations on the organisation of the service on their own, and without consent to the Council of Ministers, which is the order and custom, they would lose control and I'm afraid this would lead to an enormous growth of administration and administration, and it seems to me that our statements and trends are quite different. So we're going towards stopping the administrative increase and increasing the costs of the administration. Some administrative organisations within the Ministry of Security should see the consistency of these new proposed provisions and applicable regulations, i.e. the SIPA law, the Border Police and the Police Coordination Directorate, in particular as regards these Directorates in terms of who is responsible and what is the procedure for the adoption of their rules on the organisation of these administrative organisations. Here, let's all think about these questions, so let's see if we can think about the rest of the ministry and the Council of Ministers. I don't know how much it's necessary to go with more amendments and how much they'd be adopted in some subsequent procedure, and maybe it'd be worth having them think for themselves, so they can fix this law or pull it back, so they do it a little bit better. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10508	Thank you. Nermina Kapetanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10509	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On the trail of my representative's discussion and discussion from a moment ago, I refer to one fact again. If the objective of amending and supplementing the Law on Administration is to improve the existing procedures and to overcome certain irregularities in the existing provisions, which the Proposer says exist by amending the Law, which are identified in the procedure of the application of the Law, which would allow the consistent implementation of its provisions, we are again in an absurd situation which has not been very common, at least so far been in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to ignore the opinion of the Legislator's Office, that the proposer is passing through clear nomotic errors that occurred when writing the Law. So, again, by supporting all this that my colleague has said, I think that until the second reading, and wanting this law to stay alive until the second reading, to avoid the possibility of a large number of amendments, and I'm quite sure, here's only one discussion, that the amendment will be very much, I think it should go through the law once more, to correct this indeterminateness, to certainly consider the Opinion of the Office of Law, and especially what, I think, is primarily causing dissatisfaction with most of the colleagues who... are now silent, but when there is another reading will surely respond. In the previous meetings of parliamentary parliaments, when laws were passed, it was always in such cases, in such laws, that regarding Article 3, this is what a colleague was now talking about, it is not okay for the minister to be alone, the only person who would prescribe rules on the internal organisation was always and in accordance with the Council of Ministers' opinion, or in agreement with, and the position of the Council of Ministers. And please, in order to avoid too much discussion in the second reading, and wanting to leave the law alive, maybe we should support it today, by asking the rest of the ministry, by correcting all nomotechnical mistakes and really making a modern and good law that will finally be understandable to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10510	Chairman Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10511	I thank you and greet you once again. My debate in the sense of this law, which is in the first reading, is as well as with my distinguished colleagues, in a way Mr. Hazim Rančić and colleague Nermina Kapetanović. Since this is the first reading, I hope that the technical processor, or the proposal of the Council of Ministers, will respect all these remarks that have been made here and that we will get indeed one systematic law, because this is a law that is truly a fundamental law, I would say, for the functioning of the body of the administration. 36 Since it is said in the basic law that rules on the organisation and systematization of jobs brings a manager, with the agreement of the Council of Ministers, I would like to say that we are, in principle, determined by the second reading, in addition to that, because these were the previous discussions. I think it would be so good to bring a manager along, meaning the consent of a more organisation. Now whether it is an independent administrative organisation means that it is brought with the consent of the minister, etc. I would like to say that we should be principled and correct this correction in Article 3 in fact and nomotechnically, because the basic text states that the Internal Organisation Regulation, that is, paragraph (2), brings the managing body of the administration with the agreement of the Council of Ministers and then goes to the Interior Organisation Regulation of the Ministry to be adopted by the Minister. And here, my principle remark would mean that, if, for example, the Board of Ministers had a regulation on the organisation and systematization of the internal body, it would be brought by the manager with consent, when it comes to the functioning of the Board of Ministers, and when it comes to the lower organisational units, with the consent of that director who is directly superior, when it comes to the functioning of the Governance Act. Thank you very much. Debate, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10512	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Just one brief comment in the direction of what you have so suggested that until the next reading we will have some changes. Article 7 of the last position of the bill says – Head of the cabinet and adviser of members of the Parliamentary Assembly, member of the Bureau, Chair of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers, etc. It is not disputed that most of these have the head of cabinets and advisers, but cannot be head of cabinets and adviser to members of the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm afraid we're introducing a right here that never existed before. It is not disputed that the members of the College have the heads of staff and advisers, but here clearly stands the head of the cabinet and adviser to the members of the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm afraid we're introducing the right of all of us to take the chief of staff and advisors. So I would suggest that I change this according to what it has been like so far, which is that only members of the College in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly have the heads of cabinets and advisers, and that we continue to be satisfied that we do not, or that we do not produce additional costs for the Budget of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10513	Thank you. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 28.12.2015. On 30.12.2015, the legislative sector submitted its opinion on the harmonisation of the draft law as set out in Article 105. Rules of Procedure 37 of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, which laid down that the draft law is not fully in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the proposer, within seven days, to correct the observed shortcomings in the bill. The Dom College has appointed him responsible for his consideration of the BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission. The BiH Council of Ministers delivered a consolidated text on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system on 11 January 2016. The competent committee delivered its opinion on the principles of 11 January 2016, which supports the principles of the proposal for a law. I'm opening a debate on the bill. I don't see any reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10515	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10516	Here you go. Hanka Vajzović, come in. It's a debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10517	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I have known this Law since the time when the text was to be distanced from Umprofor, so when the text of this existing Law was produced and it is good to approach amendments and additions. My remark is very small and I interpret it as a slip, so let me just point out, so it's so small that it's not worth maybe a change of action even though it's in the first reading. It refers to Article 2 where definitions and Article 6 are given, where, again, I say, it is said by a failure that the name of a legal person or a natural person, an entrepreneur engaged in the transport of a weapon, and in Article 2 is said to be a weapon. So it would only be good for this word - weapons, in Article 6, to replace the term – weapons, which are certainly listed in Article 2 as weapons, ammunition, parts of weapons, ammunition, etc., military equipment and junk. Instead of a weapon to be a weapon, then a suggestion to a protagonist, who did this, to intervene and correct the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10518	Thank you very much. Now, at this point, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015, applicant: European Commission The report was submitted in procedure 03.12.2015. The Joint Committee on European Integration submitted its opinion on Report 04.12.2015. The commission adopted the Report and proposed to the colleagues of the homes its inclusion in the agenda of the House's session. By Decision 38 College of the House of Representatives Report was included in the agenda of the 22nd session of the House. At the 22nd session of the House, he decided to postpone the debate on this item of the agenda for the next session of the House of Representatives. Borislav Bojić has proposed a conclusion that reads – As regards the future handling and reviewing of these reports, I propose that, when future reports of the European Commission are received in the Parliamentary Assembly, they be delivered to the working bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in a section relating to the work of these bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in order to get acquainted with the content and, if necessary, respond in a timely manner to the content. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10520	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I have reported first of all as the President of the Committee for European Integrations, that little, perhaps some things I say at the beginning, given that I have information that no one in front of the European Commission is present here today. I have some half-information, I don't know if it's true, that they didn't get in time, given their annual vacations, the call, but it's less important. It seems to me that their position and our position of the Committee of Joint European Integration was that it would be good to lead this debate on this izviješće after we have people from the Council of Ministers present. We have several ministers here, I thank them, so I wish others were there, because the report mainly refers to what should be taken by the Council of Ministers. So, here may be the point of this moment, it certainly makes sense, and I hope that this is the beginning of this kind of debate in our conclusions that we are asking to be informed about the state of European integration and everything that is happening, that is, when it comes to the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I'm just going to try, as far as possible within this time limit that I'm allowed to say, here I am not alluding to make up for what the people of the European Commission needed, and they were willing, and they were present at the session of the Joint Commission on 2 December, the 9th session of the Joint Committee, Mr Davidi very clearly, there are a few colleagues who are members of this Committee, who have shown it to us. I liked the way he put it, so we were clearly presented a report by the European Commission, which was presented to the public, of course, and, of course, by the European Commission and the European Commission in Brussels on the state of progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that was good for me. In one part of the debate within the Committee itself, we may have fallen a little bit into the trap that Mr. Davidiu said some things that we disagreed with as members of the Committee, although I hope some colleagues from these committees will have, and there were colleagues from some institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina who said they disagreed with the findings there in that report, so there was a chance through the debate to say so. So perhaps someone today and here will state the position of one of the committees that discussed this izviješće at their sessions. But I said, so then it seems to me that we have nothing to say to Mr. Davidiu, but we are in a situation to consider the report they saw and how they saw it, according to their criteria as they rated it. They introduced a new method of monitoring the state of European integration, i.e. progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He presented this to us, and it is obvious that in all segments there has been progress, as they have introduced those criteria to evaluate us, except perhaps in one, let's say public TV media that there is also a certain backdrop, so going back, that is, not to mention certain views and views of the European Commission and the European Parliament. 39 For then, I will use it, I will not hope to anger my colleague Radmanović, one of his constructions that he said we have a good skinny two, so to pass, but... nevertheless... a certain progress. And we, as the Committee, when we finished the debate, suggested a certain conclusion to the College and the College, accepted that this report was to be held at today's session, i.e. it was scheduled before, so here it is finally today. So, I think we need to introduce this practice as much as possible. For example, we had a resolution, in April of the European Parliament on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we did not put it on Parliament, or I do not know if it was ever before that resolutions that were passed and put in place and I am sorry that they did not, but obviously after the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that we will have to do this more and more often. After we looked at the report, we suggested that the Committee hold one thematic session, so to speak, even though we did not accept it in such a time, and on 23.12. we held that session and called, by choice, so... The commissions. So we have considered five sections of this report, we have discussed public administration reform and the rule of law, the fight against corruption, freedom of movement of goods and services and the field of intellectual property. Why did we choose these five chapters? Because it seemed to us that the report had very specific views of the European Commission and clearly identified institutions, i.e. processes that must occur. And we chose that and to our satisfaction, at least to me, everyone we invited responded, and the prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, when it came to the subject, and the VSTV, and the people of various directorates and agencies, and we were very pleased. The only thing I'm sorry we didn't have, gentlemen, is a quorum at the 23rd session, so we couldn't draw any conclusions. So I'll be forced to propose them to you today at this session as a representative, so it's not the Commission's position, but I believe those conclusions would be accepted if we had a quorum. However, I am sorry that it was not there, because there was a very interesting, very good debate there, and I hope that it will continue in that form. As for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then, before I propose these conclusions, other activities that follow us when it comes to the report and when it comes to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, first of all I would like to meet my colleagues at the beginning of February of the 6th or 2nd session in this assembly of parliamentary quorum in Banja Luka, where we will again have this report and the Action Plan, which is the next point of today's session, at the parliamentary forum in Banja Luka. That we, probably at the end of February, as the Committee, are going to organize the first round table, so we've called it work, we still don't have the details about it, and I guess there's going to be the first theme in Bijeljina, and it's about agriculture and exports, etc. So, we're going to see who we're going to invite there, we're going to try as the Committee on behalf of you, on behalf of the parliamentarians, to engage in the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the way we think. Here, we didn't wait this time to officially get some kind of, say, order to work on these issues, but we started certain initiatives ourselves. When it comes to one part of the people who were dissatisfied with the report, or the find found by the European Commission, it was in that session on 23rd, from certain directorates who said they were not, so they provided us with special written reports on this, taking into account some things that the European Commission had not seen. So, that's okay, it can stand, and I may be in one part, let's say when it comes to the public TV system, on page 57, not satisfied that the European Commission didn't say about what the European Parliament Resolution said in April about the state of the Public TV Service, when it comes to broadcasting and production of the programme in official languages. But here they are, so they've turned their attention to what they thought, and I think there's enough objections and recommendations and everything else. 40 Here's what I wouldn't do, I think I've given you enough input on what we've done. I finally suggest, so we adopt three conclusions today, as a representative, because I thought we could do it at the Committee but we didn't have a quorum to make them, I believe other colleagues will have nothing against these conclusions, and that's next. So the first conclusion would be – The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing an Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH report's 2015 priorities. I think it's already under way, as far as I have information, that the Council of Ministers is working on it or in charge... The second conclusion – The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with tasking all institutions to take action from the 2016 Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Report's priorities will be included in the work plans of the institutions. And the third conclusion I propose – The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes to inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the implementation of priorities on regular annual reporting for 2016. It's on the trail of what we discussed, the six of us were there, we lacked one colleague to have the Commission's position on this, but it doesn't matter. And a few more information. So, as far as we know, the Implementation Council has held its first meeting, the Implementation Committee has held its first meeting, and we will have it at our commission's review, this topic. And let's just say one proposal has failed to hold a special session with the VSTV when it comes to structural reform of the law, which is what we're going to do. Here, I hope, therefore, that, here's how much time I've had available and that I haven't pushed you too hard with this, since there's no colleague from the European Commission, I've given you enough information to discuss this and I suggest that we adopt these conclusions as something that we can follow further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10521	I would like to thank Agent Lovrinović. As for the referencing that we do not have representatives of the European Commission, I will say that we have also had representatives of the European Commission on committees and in meetings with colleagues, and it is in fact their usual practice, and from them we have received information that they are unusual with their representative to address Parliament. And we actually have every time in front of the European Commission people who follow the work of our home, not just at this point, but by others. So let's move on with the debate, Dušanka Majkić, on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10522	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I really think it's frustrating for the first time to talk about such a serious subject and have it over with, except for these two ministers sitting there, having an almost empty left-hand side. It speaks of the state of the government when it comes to this matter and it speaks of the state of the Council of Ministers, of its involvement in the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's the point of everything? To get a real picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina meeting the conditions for the surrender of these credible applications, which we have been talking about since June last year. I'm a little bit looking at who's said what a little begraund has done to say that key people in 41 institutions and key institutions are related to that path that we need to make in order to get a final condition that we declare to be our goal. Well, here's how the presidency behaves. The chairman of the presidency, Mr Covic said he is convinced that our country will now, soon, submit an application for membership because this is the result of a clearly built-up attitude based on the information it received from the Council of Ministers. And then he said that we are suffering the consequences because the first one, we lost our trade privileges to the EU, and he warned that because of the fog in Sarajevo, they could not cancel scheduled meetings in Brussels. He said that after last session of the presidency, he said that we have a harmonised coordination mechanism that should only be completed and amended for the sake of adapting to the SAA. So he said what he said. Mladen Ivanić, meaning that there is a conclusion from the BiH presidency that an application should be submitted in January, but does not know what is going on on the plan and that it should call on the chairman. Mr. Izetbegović says – the coordination mechanism as it is now is difusing, unclear, dysfunctional. So it doesn't exist. ... means three members of the Bureau who give completely different grades and based on none of them can be understood where Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, the highest body in this country. Now, what's the state of the Council of Ministers? Mr. Mirko Šarović, who is also the vice chairman, said he was not sure that BiH would submit an application in January 2016 and that it was ordered from Brussels to wait. So we got, we had two conditions, we had a coordination mechanism and this map times. We were subsequently granted a third condition of compliance, this SSP thing about this trade, the traditional trade. And here, today they announce the fourth condition, the announcement of the results of the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the census, the pardon, the census. So one item at a time is added and our goal becomes further and further. By the time we're done, by the time we finish what they've given them, they'll add something else, in the meantime, because as we hurry, I don't believe we'll do anything. Now, he said, he announced that the entire SAA adaptation would likely come first. Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, as second deputy, said that he did not want to comment, probably a man heard and saw that no one, had two persons within the Council of Ministers and Presidencies who said the same thing, so he said – please the Presidency is in charge of bringing foreign policy ask them, let them tell you when it will be. In the end, Denis Zvizdić, chairman of the Council of Ministers, says it will be done within the next few months and does not matter as much time as it is important for us to meet the conditions. Now, Parliament needs to get information based on these and such opinions, I have sought very carefully the statements of all these people. Who in this country actually knows where we are right now and who in this country can say exactly, to answer questions, what the implementation of the Reform Agenda means. Besides making an Action Plan, what else has Bosnia and Herzegovina done on that plan? What's going on with her implementation? We'll talk about it now at the next point and then see if there's anything that can be done on the basis of that plan, the kind of action plan that we've got if there's anything that can be tried. Building an efficient coordination mechanism that's been talking for a year and a half that we're all done, and now we've got one piece of work and we can't agree on that work. So we don't have any other conditions, we don't have one without talking about the third condition that's gonna cost us the most. So, at this point in the diplomatic plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina, she is making a terrible diplomatic pressure in Brussels to allow us to submit the application. Instead of all the forces in this country being concentrated to make a step towards doing the jobs we need to do, we are putting pressure on the hope that we will pray for something that doesn't belong to us, because we didn't deserve it. It's sad that, which is why I don't need this answer to get someone to tell the board, that's 12 people. Parliament, the entire Parliamentary Assembly, both of its homes, would need to know what is going on in that area. And ours, this House of Representatives session, is not going to give any of the 42 answers to where we are and what we need to do to hand over a credible application for NATO membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10523	Thank you. Milica Marković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10524	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. I will try briefly to refer to this report, which I have already had the opportunity to comment on as a member of the Commission for European Integration, and I will say one part of what I have brought to the Commission, but I think it is very important today what we will say about this and to put our views on what, as we see this situation. I agree with predecessors who said it would be good if one of the representatives of the European Commission were present in this debate because we are working together on this business of European integration between Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we are not doing it on our own and individually, they are our partners in this business. But what to say and what to resent to the representatives of the European Commission when we see that on the left hand side today the representatives, i.e. the executive authority of this country, are completely absent, if we assume that two members, two ministers are only present, it is not even 30% of the Council of Ministers who are to be present today, primarily the chairman of the Council of Ministers or someone who has been empowered to speak on his behalf today on all important issues and to answer certain questions that we have certainly according to the Council of Ministers who are the main holder of these affairs and these activities. The report ahead of us today is actually a diagnostic depiction of the state in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located in 2015, and about what has been done and what has not been done, and what is expected to be done in the next period. My impression, after reading this report, is that there are many more items on that side where there is still something to do and the activities that have to be done and realized that this job would be successfully completed than those items that are said to have been done and that something has already been done. We had a report, as the President of the European Commission said, from the European Commission's representative, he then gave a picturesque picture of this situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is now located, so it is said this way. Key findings – Bosnia and Herzegovina are in the EU integration process and continue to implement reforms related to the process. Change in relation to the 2014 Report – Bosnia and Herzegovina can meet the requirement if there is a will to work together. There's plenty to catch up with. Since it didn't say in Serbian, I read what it's like here. And then, of course, it lists all the key open issues that some of them are very, very important and very serious issues that Bosnia and Herzegovina should face, that is to put them ahead of themselves and see how to resolve it, what to do on that plan. The report is normally written in three aspects. So, the aspect of political context or political criteria, economic criteria and criteria of European standards. I will remain particularly on these European standards, given that they are the most comprehensive and that there is much more work to be done in terms of adapting the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Euro-Atlantic integration, and I will say, I will read only one part of that section on the application of European standards in the department that speaks of fighting organised crime and terrorism. So 43 says - in the fight against terrorism, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been seriously hit by the appearance of foreign terrorist fighters and radicalisation. The spread of radicalisation has been observed in the country, especially in the Wahhabi community. In April, Zvornik Police Station attacked an armed man who killed one police officer and wounded two, etc. Afterwards, we had several similar events in this country, but one of the most drastic and extreme was the public lynching of the neighbouring country's prime minister to whom this country, Bosnia and Herzegovina, right at the moment and the ambience, when it is preparing to apply all the standards that the EU and the European Commission are expecting from us, gave no answer. Neither are we to this day from the Council of Ministers, and even worse than the Minister of Security, which is the case with the SDS, what is being done on this plan and how far this investigation has arrived and how Bosnia and Herzegovina will be determined according to that act. What do you think the Prime Minister of Italy was attacked in France and France then kept silent for six months, a year, and nothing. One such high-ranking person is lynched in that country but there is no answer to what that country is doing, what it will do to protect its credibility and its authority as a state community. That's one example only. Of course there are other open questions that are being asked here and, of course, the question is what is being done, but obviously nothing is being done. Because according to today's presence, or the lack of a Council of Ministers, it clearly states what the relationship to this job is, for which some are broken, saying it is the most important activity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's what we heard from President Zvizdić himself when he submitted the exposé here that he said, I will now paraphrasise, but it was a message from his part concerning the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that with this Council of Ministers, the European era of Bosnia and Herzegovina that was not in some previous period begins. And today we have a situation that after a year of their activities terrorism, as the most pronounced danger, is primarily for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also for the region and beyond our environment, Bosnia and Herzegovina is today registered and labelled as a country in the Balkans and in part of Europe as the place where the most dangerous terrorist organisations and forces are concentrated. It is a finding that comes from designated intelligence agencies from Europe, which, of course, refers to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have no response from the Council of Ministers to that, nor are they doing anything at all to remove those labels from Bosnia and Herzegovina and to turn to some other course. Of course, at the Commission when we had a debate on this, I asked an open question whether the European Commission thinks that at the moment Bosnia and Herzegovina can be credible to prepare and seek EU candidate status with the Office of the High Representative in BiH? And I asked him openly if any members, I know that but I wanted to hear from him, did any of the EU members who have joined the EU today join the community with a high representative? Of course not. But Bosnia and Herzegovina is asked to prepare and work under these circumstances, and they mention, of course, certain conditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to meet to get the High Representative out of here. And what is this high representative doing to anyone else in this country today, and what is his effect, and what is the result of his work here? It also bothers him to be a remethyling factor for certain processes and for certain relations between the people, between entities, cantons and lower when you bring down the administrative organizations of this country. Reform law. The European standards here that they explain say that the right is a very important segment of the reform of a society and of a country that is preparing for European integration. What do we have in law, since the reforms of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Nothing. We have here in the section delivered to us as the Reform Agenda, where the Justice Department says the Council of Ministers... was working on it. Regulation of objective criteria for the appointment of judicial holders to increase professionalism and integrity, 44 to adopt measures on the integrity of the judicial system in BiH, to adopt new rules of disciplinary procedure and to introduce new disciplinary measures. On tables where you say what your goal is and what it is, in what state these activities are absolutely nothing, empty, so they haven't done anything, or any results of it. And of course when some parties, above all SNSD, say in this Parliament that there is a need to potentiate certain laws on, above all, the Constitutional Court, on the Court of Justice of BiH, which we know are in what state they are in and how they are imposed on this society, then, of course, a large number of opponents from the Federation appear on such a thing, and we know that the Constitutional Court of BiH, here now to put aside its political context of action and judgments, that they have two judges from the order of the Bosniak people who were recently political officials of a party and today are judges, that you have foreign judges here who have long expired their work and actions, that you have no law on this Constitutional court to regulate its work. That you have the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office established in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the laws of the High Representative. And we are now talking, or we should talk about reforming the law, but of course the Council of Ministers is not dealing with it, or maybe it can't get into these problems and in this problem to answer certain questions. All in all, to conclude, so one very dreary painting. And according to this report, it can be concluded that the European Commission has made more efforts and efforts to give determined edifications and to give determined guidelines on what Bosnia and Herzegovina should do and in what direction it is going than the Council of Ministers does and, of course, the current assembly majority here in this Parliament. As long as this relationship is like this, and as long as it gets access to these things, I don't think Bosnia and Herzegovina's gonna get off the dead end. Of course, all that my colleague Dušanka said, that we had last year, Mr. Prime Minister's Chairman said by the end of the year we'll submit an application for candidate status, and then, of course, Mr. Covic said it would be in January, so here these days we hear that we're talking about an appointment by July of this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10525	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10526	But I'm completely killed that we'll be waiting for the beginning of the next 2017, but we won't get out of the way from the beginning than it is now. And, of course, that's where all those remarks go into the water, and those comments where it was said that during some previous period when the SNSD was in power, there was a big brake, there was a big disturbance to take that trip off. Here, now they've come to the stage of some other, probably many miles of representatives of my international community than they are representatives of the SNSD, but we can see that there's absolutely no movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10527	Debate, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10528	Here, I'm more optimistic here than my colleague Marković, certainly it won't be as bad as it was when the process was run by the SNSD and that this next year will certainly be much better than it was before, but in order to have it, I want to say a few things. So, first of all, it's good that we finally have this in Parliament, and this should become a practice that here 45 in this institution, in the broadest sense, we inform and take views, common views on our European perspective. So, it is a pity that here is not really the overall composition of the Council of Ministers, and not only the Council of Ministers, I think that there should have been people from the Directorate for European Integration and other institutions involved in this process of meeting the conditions on the European path. So this latest European Commission Annual Report, which is being published for seven countries involved in the EU enlargement policy, was published last year in November. As is known in this report, there are now certain newspapers. It used to be the Progress Report, from this year on he'll only be calling the Report. We know that since this year, the European Commission has started to use one new scale for all countries to assess progress in the last year and the second also aligned scale to assess the country's overall preparedness for EU membership. In this overall score, our country is in an early stage of EU membership preparedness, which is the worst rating, but in this last year it has achieved a certain shift. So that's where we have the middle grade and that's the answer that things are still going and going in a more positive direction than it was the last time we had a total stalemate on the European path. So, my colleague Lovrinović also said, we have most of the areas where we have positive shifts, but we also have those where it has been estimated that our country has returned in this period from September 2014 to September 2015. This is a particular area of freedom of the media, expression, and the most Bosnia and Herzegovina has done through good progress in the area of public procurement. I know how important it is for the image of the country this story about freedom of the media, about full transparency and full capacity building for reporting and the work of journalists, and that is why I asked, there are maybe two months, to hold a special debate in the Parliamentary Assembly on the state of freedom of the media and journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to sort of eliminate the problems that we have, here also recorded in this past 2015 report. So, except in the area of freedom of movement of capital, intellectual property, customs and taxes, where we are assessed as being medium-prepared for EU membership, in all other areas, our country is either in the early or yet determined stage of preparation, which is the two worst assessments according to the new way of assessing it in the European Commission. So, this year, what is important for this, in my opinion, discussion, since this year, the European Commission and precisely points to expectations from the country that has this EU accession process for the next year what it needs to do to make its report better. So that's one for us now, making it easier, I'd say, a framework, a orientation, which we need to focus on, which is what we need to spend our energy on to make every future report even better. That is why, in this context, I propose that, as part of this debate, when we receive the information directly to them, namely this Report, to ensure that the next one is as good as possible, to adopt a conclusion in which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasked the Council of Ministers to urgently adopt a state integration programme, for which, as we have been informed by media funds, the Directorate for European Integration has already done a technical part of the preparation. It should contain a plan to meet the criteria for membership and a plan for harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation and should be binding on all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'll deliver this in writing. I support the conclusions of my colleague Nikola Lovrinović, and I think that he and as chairman of this Commission, but the Commission is also making every effort to make us all serious about doing this job as much as possible. And the third thing, also said by my colleague Majkić, so I also call on the representatives of the European Commission, with 46 of us on this trip, so they are not setting us up with additional conditions that will slow down this process of ours, so especially this process of teaching and applications, but to help us deliver this application as soon as possible and to open a new page of our relations, because, as I said, it is our common interest and our joint work and us in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10529	Debate, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10530	...the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, a few things about the report itself. In fact, when it comes to the report itself, it is certainly my opinion, and it is also a practice for us to consider only our Joint Commission on European Integration, namely, I think it is necessary for the other committees in the area of competence to consider this report, in order not to have a certain type of error and there is, after all, the need for some questions to be considered. I'll list some questions about, say, the Joint Committee on Human Rights, for example. the issue of the Law on the Ombudsman, including the issue of freedom of the media, which was mentioned earlier by counterpart Šepić, of course other issues such as Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac's decision. 167 recommendations from various areas are found, therefore, as a spectrum of issues to be considered by the Parliamentary Assembly. And with that in mind, I don't think it's enough that only the Joint Commission for European Integration is considering these issues. And in this regard, I have also suggested a conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly would, if it needs to be re-delivered, I have already done so on 30.12., and if you already have that conclusion that I do not have to re-deliver it, and this report, when discussed by the European Commission, is also delivered to the working bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and in the part relating to the work of these working bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I'd like to back this up with a few more facts regarding the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. In fact, through this report that we have received, among other things, I want to because of the members of the Joint Commission, and here I am the first deputy in this Commission and for a long time, here's the second term I am here and I have an obligation to, by this point of the agenda, end up getting acquainted with the reaction of our Joint Commission to this Report. At our 12th session of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly, held on 08.12., we have considered, therefore, part of this Report, which concerns several lines as a comment on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, which lists entirely incorrect data on the work of this Commission. In fact, during the debate, I would like to say that we were completely unique in the opinion that we should react to the incorrect allegations on page 10 of the report entitled "Civil surveillance of the security forces". It is simply amazing that someone thus denies the fact that the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly itself is doing so, because the data are completely contrary to the facts. Namely, the report states that we held two meetings of the Commission and the like. So, if nothing but the constitution of our Commission since 20 April 2015, we have held until the publication of this report 11 sessions, and so far we have held 15 sessions, with today's day. So these are simple facts that are true. It is widely known that we held a workshop, that we had one conference where the most responsible people in the defence and security sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina participated, that we discussed 104 agenda points at our sessions. All opinions, reports, conclusions on the Commission's work have been confirmed by both homes. All activities 47 Joint Commissions had significant results, I am free to say that they had a significant echo when it comes to not only Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am free to say the region itself. How much we have visited or carried out parliamentary oversight in the work of agencies, institutions and defence sectors since 20 April, this is all public knowledge. At the end of the dates, I don't say it's all on the official website of the Commission itself. In view of this, everything I said earlier, at the 12th session, our Joint Defence and Security Commission took a unanimous decision and agreed with the text of the letter to Ambassador Vigemark, the head of the EU delegation and the EU Special Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we also delivered this content to the College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, of course to the international organisations we co-operate with, among other OEPS, UNDP, NATO, EUFOR, DIKAF, RAKVIAK, etc. This simple reaction, which is needed, ultimately, and when it comes to relations with members of the Joint Commission in BiH. I'm sure there are things and problems that we disagree on, that we think differently, etc., but this time I don't think we can be that we don't react and point out, so some of the facts that are completely different in this report itself, start with the numbers and the facts that were found in this chapter that I was talking about. This commission before this call had, I would like to remind, the very noticeable results and activities, which, I am free to say, had the observed results and the predecessors, as I said earlier, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in the region at all, let me say in the Western Balkans. And in the end, we also had good grades from a number of international organizations dealing with monitoring. So, I don't know what was meant by this report to deliver this kind of data, personally I think there's been some kind of misunderstanding here, I don't believe that someone with intent did it. I am also taking the opportunity to suggest that the future be delivered, and it seems to me that it would be very effective if this conclusion could be accepted, and that all issues relating to the commissions were specifically delivered, and that commissions could in an appropriate way have these segments of commissions in their jurisdiction had a certain kind of comment, reactions and so on. I will repeat once again we have 167 recommendations from various areas, and I think it is not enough that only the Joint Commission for European Integrations has been considering this report, but also the other committees in their jurisdiction. Here, so much for me right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10531	Thank you. The debate, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10532	We, therefore, delayed the debate at last session of the House of Representatives so that we could have the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers in the Hall today. But then, almost half a month later, we have the same or worse situation again. So this is today if not the most important item of the agenda at the session, there is no Council of Ministers chairman and there is no 80% Council of Ministers. What kind of message is that? It's a question to yourself. Looking at other countries that are members of the EU today, let's say Slovenia and Croatia, those countries when they fulfilled their obligations on the European path, at the time of the debate on their annual reports, not that he was prime minister in the O.R., and all ministers were already missing no deputy ministers. We have a completely reverse situation. And what someone expects here in the O.R. that we are now giving thanks for the fact that the entire government is not on such an important issue right now. 48 I think that this report, too, will benefit all of us, because this is not a question of position and opposition, but for all of us in this country, we need to take down a set of cover and facades and speak openly. This report in the good part is a report that resembles that of the European Commission for 2011. meċutim, did there really have to be a fundamental shift in the area in 2015? If he is where? Except for verbal statements, signatures, etc. What does that report say if we read it in detail? On page 8, the Council of Ministers planned 65 European laws in 2015 to adopt here. How much did it adopt? It's not over 80%. That's why we needed the Council of Ministers to give us an answer as to why. Page 9, a whole chapter says there is no dialogue between government and civil society. We should now be getting an answer from the Council of Ministers why. Page 10 says there has been no progress in public administration reform. Why? Page 12 says there is still no transparency in budget spending. Page 15 says the law remains ineffective. Page 15 that independence and independence are at stake. Page 17 literally writes – corruption remains widespread. Page 22, human rights are still being violated. That, and if the European Commission hadn't told us, we know very well that this is the case in this country. The 22-page page literally stands – the state, I quote, reversing in freedom of expression, did not stay at the same level but went backwards. The same side, scaring journalists continued and intensified. There is no progress in approaching the global trade organisation. On page 65, hate is tolerated in Bosnia and Herzegovina, hate speech has not been processed. I particularly mention this because, early last year, this Parliament adopted an initiative to get a bill on banning national, religious and any other hatred and discord in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of last year here in Parliament. This has not yet been done by the Council of Ministers, although it is an obligation imposed by this House, which was elected by the BiH Council of Ministers. Of course, there are some, in some moments, positive things that suggest a certain hope. That's something to say goodbye to. I'm not one of those people who thinks that, in a debate like this, we should have a black-and-white picture and say everything was bad in this 2015, and like honey and milk, they've been running in the previous years or decades. All of this should be objectively seen, be critical and self-critical and try to ensure that all MPs and ministers in the Council of Ministers reach the best possible solutions and that, together, in our capacity and within our jurisdiction, we remove those shortcomings identified and in this Report. Why don't we move faster on that European path? Well, we can look for excuses and various acrobatics, but it should be said openly – there are anti-reform and anti-European forces in this country. These forces do not accept the already regulated way a country is approaching the EU, and forces do not recognise either what is unification, or coordination, or co-ordination on our path to the EU. The European Commission should have made this very clear in this report. The European Commission in the 2016 Report, if it wants to help Bosnia and Herzegovina in the right way, should make it very clear who is blocking certain European laws in this country. Not to mention, in this report there is no, let's say in that segment of human rights there is no denying one constitutional language, in this case Bosnian language in much of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to mention another fact that no one can boast in Bosnia and Herzegovina that a full decision on the equality of all peoples is still not respected, both in one entity and in individual cantons in another entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why such discrimination is not marked by the holders, why it is not publicly written, it is also a question for the European Commission. So, to recap, there is room for both self-critics and Parliament and the Council of Ministers and the European Commission, but it would probably help us all much more in the coming period if we knew exactly what the work plan is, what laws we need to adopt, and who is ultimately blocking and obstructing it. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10533	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to the presentation of my esteemed colleague Bećirović, and I just wanted to ask him that as someone from whom we heard here this morning attacks on Minister Osmanović and the accusations that the Unworked Days of Religious Holidays Act violates the Dayton Peace Agreement, I urge you to respect the Dayton Peace Agreement and its Annex IV and to use the Anex IV terminology. So the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers, not the prime minister and government. Show some principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10535	Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10536	Well, so just a few remarks, of course, I have no intention of defending the Report, nor do I think of it, so that's what it is, the representatives of the European Commission have shown us what they were going to present in this report, they have seen us as they have seen us, but they are clearly for the sake of the public. Since counterpart Bećirović listed what he was, so I chose from the text of the report, I will only say a few things. For example, a key finding that says that Bosnia and Herzegovina has returned to the EU integration process and continues to implement reforms related to the process. Changes with respect to the 2014 Report Bosnia and Herzegovina can meet the requirements if there is a will to work together, there is a lot..., it says. So he says, the key positive shifts – the SP entered into force in June, the Reform Agenda adopted in July, so the implementation began in August, then the Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan adopted in April, the Justice Reform Strategy adopted and re-puted, a focus on structural dialogue on justice, the transport policy adopted in July, the law on green light for imports into the EU of thermalally processed milk and dairy products. So these are the things that are so contained in the report, that the public will not be denied such a thing. And when different chapters are discussed, let's say, the functioning of justice is said to be limited. Then, the fight against corruption – limited progress, the fight against organised crime – limited progress, etc. So there's far more, as I said in that first address, the views that they've made certain progress. Indeed, I said that there are certain things, at least in one of which is talked about public media – backwards, everything else is therefore at the stagnation stage. That's why I said that my colleague Radmanović used one of these interesting things, that we got one skinny two, so there are assumptions, we can go on if I want to participate in this. So it's not all like that, even though he finally got a little bit straight and said it wasn't all black-and-white film and it's not all negative, we have a foundation and we need to move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10537	Debate, Hazim Rančić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10538	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the first row, I came forward to challenge part of the report on the side of 10 on civilian control over small forces, and this is what my respected colleague Bojić was talking about, so there is no need for me to repeat these things. One more thing I wanted to talk about, about a few things, but this debate today, around when it is under way, may seem a little bit like the opposition contesting, not the Report, but, of course, it is not ours from some other institutions and can only be challenged in a way to say this is not true and to explain, it is the Commission's working document for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the report for 2015 by the European Commission, and therefore the opposition mainly represents negative things, things that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have not done in a long number of years. Okay, I respect it and do not dispute it, of course with small exceptions, so in final proposals. While the position on the other hand should now be from the Report which, how much, 74 pages should read less or more affirmative things, so to say it was done, this shift is made, the shift is made, the shift is made, etc., etc. I am not sure that the purpose of this report and our work is to compete in the bidding of neither positive, nor negative things, but I also believe and support that, as my colleague Šepić suggested, as my colleague Lovrinović suggested, as the committee recommended, as well as the committee, as well as, here is my colleague Bećirović, mentioned twice, and at the end of his discussion and another part there in the middle of his discussion, that if we are essentially committed to the European path, we are all more together to turn our sleeves and truly and essentially work. So, I respect all these things that are not done, I don't want to argue, but then let us honestly here in Parliament, what is in Parliament's jurisdiction, bring this strategy, bring that law, fix this thing, etc. So, all of what we said, it's not done, it's not done, let's just so that if we're honest and we do that list, here's to assign the Council of Ministers and all the other institutions that are competent, their work plan, so we have the Action Plan as the next point, we have the stated what isn't done, here in this Report, let's switch all these things over, what is Parliament's jurisdiction to do, and then it will be useful for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10539	Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10540	Thank you, Chairman. I think that there is no position and opposition on the European path, I think that the European path is something that we have repeatedly said through the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina on a number of occasions. Of course, there are positions and opposition in Parliament, there are political responsibilities for some past period whether something has been accelerated or something is going slow today, and that is quite clear. I think that this topic today in Parliament was very important, that it is very important for this country's European perspective. Maybe there was supposed to be a much stronger debate. I'm concerned today with the fact that we have a monologue in the House of Representatives today, this is a monologue of the House of Representatives. We sat in the mirror and talked to ourselves. Why today we do not have a representative of the European Commission, did the College of Representatives call on representatives of the European Commission. _________(?) 51 [[no microphone turned on]] You two were talking maybe you didn't hear, I said it was a monologue. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10543	Time. This was the correcting of the wrong quote, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10544	All right, it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10545	So you convinced us, colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10546	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure provided for the possibility of correcting the misquote of what the colleague used as a right and signed up and you gave him your word. meċutim, I feel that this part of the Rules of Procedure has been damaged because I have not heard from a colleague who and whose part of the allegations has been corrected. So I'm just asking that the Rules of Procedure be respected. ... he listened to the whole debate and I'm asking that clearly said that and that MP said that and that, that's not exactly why and that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10547	Thank you. If you listened very carefully to me, I finally said that it was an correction to the wrong assumption and that our colleague had convinced us. We're going to correct the wrong quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10548	Yes, it is true that I have just come forward because of the correction of my colleague, Rančić, who said in his discussion that today the opposition represents or states only what is negative from the report, and the position is supposed to say what is positive. You're wrong, Mr. Rančić, because you're 52 in a position to brag about that little piece of work that's been done. And what should we do now as an opposition to commend you for that and to say it is very good that there is no Council of Ministers chairman today to ask him what is wrong with the coordination mechanism. Is it okay for you to have this situation today and to praise this situation for being such or to ask him what's wrong with the application for candidacy, to say. Who's going to answer that? You don't ask him out of position and obviously you don't or you don't ask him and you don't have to point out or you do, you're indifferent to what's with the coordination mechanism, what about the application, what about fighting terrorism, what about taking down certain labels from Bosnia and Herzegovina as a potentially dangerous country and environment, what about all these issues? So, you're wrong when you say our job to the opposition is to point out that it's not done. Should we be commending? Well, if there was anything to brag about, we would have praised, but obviously there's nothing, from the fact that the Council of Ministers isn't present at all today. What is there to boast about when they show their lack of presence about their relationship with this job and how they see Bosnia and Herzegovina's movements in general on that path.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10549	Correction of the wrong quote, Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10550	So it is true that I said that the opposition cites the neurotic things in its discussion, and that the people of the position also cite some good things, whether they are completely or partially clocked or small shifts have been made. And therefore my quote is not incorrect and it is not controversial, for by listening to all the discussions, let them take a stenogram, and they will see that some of the colleagues of the opposition, and even the correction itself, were the winding of the stormy things. My colleague, an esteemed colleague, is from the opposition. But in my discussion, it was also said that there were little exceptions, so here's the thing. The respected colleague Bećirović was from the opposition and cited things that were not done, but of course he said – that there are also things that were clocked, things should not be seen black and white, etc., etc., and he even suggested what we should do. At that part of his discussion, of course, I referred and called and said that in that part of his discussion I support. So there's no false quote in my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10551	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10552	I thank the chairman. I cannot believe that we are discussing this process as if it had started in 2015, or by selecting this Council of Ministers, or, however you will, these parliamentary majority. And like now, nothing has happened before, or anyone is responsible for the fact that there's no movement before, and now, as they were, here's how they were insufficient, yet clear messages that we're moving a little forward. And now it's those who haven't done anything to make this move a little bit forward, like colleagues Bećirović, who forget that for four years they were there when they didn't do anything, they were in power, they were bearers of the process. I think that, someone has already said, and it's by who knows how many times so far, this is a process in which there is no position or opposition. And if we have decided to go to the EU, then that means a consensus for all of us sitting here. And if something goes wrong, let's make a contribution to doing what's right, let's make concrete suggestions so we can really speed up this process if we can. Of course, all that means, all that means, and all of our problems that we have and me capable and between entities and between us here, between political parties, etc. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10553	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10554	So in order not to gain all success, I must remind myself that the Agenda was initiated by the international community, it is not the fruit of the new government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was the place where the new government met and began to meet. But it's amazing how we failed to solve the coordination mechanism, but I wonder how you as a successful solve it so far. The only success that we can talk about is within the next point of the Action Plan, so we'll see about that success where we are, who made it and how he made it, and that's where we'll see what the Council of Ministers' success is. The action plan shows microscopically what it is, what the success of the new government is. And we'll talk about this more and more arguments in favor of how the new government works.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10555	Correction of the wrong allegation, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10556	Unlike my esteemed colleague, Novaković, who spoke casually, unargumented and above all contradictoryly, I will try exclusively to stick to the arguments. When I say so, so I repeat that in my discussion I also said that I do not view this report as a black-and-white picture, there are things that are positive, I am not running away from supporting them and commending them, there are more that are not positive, which I need to talk about. meċutim, since counterpart Novaković said that nothing was done in the previous period, I now have to ask my distinguished colleague Novaković when he was in charge, now that he said that nothing was done in the previous term or was he right a year ago when, unlike me, he voted in favour of Prime Minister Zvizdić's exposés? Namely, for the exposures voted by counterpart Novaković on page 5, third paragraph, counterpart Novaković may not have heard or read it, according to Zvizdić – previously, it is necessary to say that the previous Council of Ministers in the restrictive political frameworks of its action has made progress in relation to the situation it inherited. A finished quote from Zvizdić's exposé. Now I'm interested in whether Col. Novaković played on short notice or took it a little bit, or maybe, uh, he was wrong then and today he's right, or he's the other way around. I don't know what it is, but here's what I remind him of the things he voted for.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10557	Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10558	I withdraw the chairman, I withdraw the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10559	Then we go to the next correction of the wrong quote, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10560	Dear colleagues and colleagues. 54 I'm going to look back on some of these discussions of a respected colleague, Denis Bećirović. I hope this is my address with this – the esteemed will not cause a replica if I didn't do it like last time, and I'd like him to write down everything he wants in writing in advance of his name and name, he's imploding it to him, and I'll repeat it every time. So, Mr. Denis Bećirović discussed in a way that as discussed by Bosnia and Herzegovina was in the EU, so this is a road map or an Agenda that was improved compared to the previous situation when Denis Bećirović sat there as the chairman of the House of Representatives. And dear colleague Majkić, the Agenda was not initiated by the International Community, which is a rule that applies to all countries that have the foreign policy goal of being EU members, so they all go the same way, someone shorter, someone longer. So it's an initiative of state and state authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10561	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10562	Well, first of all, I have to say that I am glad that my colleagues confirmed what I said, and that it is a process, and I am glad that I am all concerned with the discussion of my colleague Majkić, who said in her discussion and in some way develops a competitive spirit towards, when it comes to meeting EU requirements, i.e. the European Commission and approaching the EU. I'm glad, because I think that's the only way we can go forward and meet those conditions. As for my colleague, Bećirović, I think that, I did not say that nothing was done, that's what the European Commission said, so she said how much has been done in the previous period and how much has been done now. And I repeat,... and it wouldn't have been good and it would have been really crazy if someone had spent four years in power without doing anything. And of course he did, but obviously it was slow. I don't know if this Council of Ministers is going to work faster and if we're going to work faster here, but it's certain that what's been slow so far, and not only slow from the previous call, but also slow from this called by the Council of Ministers so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10563	Correction of the false allegation, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10564	I will correct the esteemed colleague Hazim Rančić, who unfortunately is not present, and partly a colleague of Lovrinović, so there will be correction of the wrong quote. But before I go, I think we were wrong in the numbering, or in the order of the agenda points, so first we should have talked about the Action Plan that follows us after that, which would actually give a clear picture of where we are and how much we can analyze the European Commission's report. Then we'd see if we weren't actually anywhere. Since my colleague mentioned the opposition, and then it turns out that only fellow Bećirović is the opposition, and you have a position in the attempt, I will refer to myself and say that it is very commendable from this report that we have signed the Reform Agenda, as stated by the esteemed colleague Lovrinović, but there is a Reform Agenda that should follow the Action Plan as soon as we signed, we have this, I don't know what I would call it, the mildly 55 said Action Plan. And then we committed ourselves to this reform agenda, which is here... that the first report will be delivered on 15 November 2015, today is January 2016. It is takoċer commendable that there is no clear picture in the report of Bosnia and Herzegovina in that segment of discrimination, there is no educational system, and we see today in the media, we saw yesterday a tragic show where mothers of murdered children, killed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina system, are looking for a day for explanations, for information at all, how to get to that information, no one is able to help them. But of course it doesn't matter to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's much more important that we have today, thanks to the distinguished Minister Borovac and the distinguished Minister Šarović for still being present at this session, while the rest are probably either at lunch or in Strasbourg. takoċer it is commendable when my colleague Šepić says everything is positive, i.e. partly positive. It is positive, it would be very positive if all our representatives and representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10565	Time. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10566	... The Council of Europe sends a report to Bosnia and Herzegovina and us, so that we can read about the picture, at all what is said about Bosnia and Herzegovina, or what you as our representatives in Strasbourg, Brussels, Paris, and not to list further, how you represent us, where we are, what we are, whether there is any hope for us as a candidate, etc. It is very commendable that my colleague Mensura once asked a representative question about the... project, i.e. the International Programme for the Competition where our respected minister, who comes from the ranks of this position, Hazim promised to do and to make every effort for our students to be part of this programme. January 2016, we don't have any data. So, it's very commendable to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10567	Correction of the wrong quote, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10568	Well, I don't have anything to fix, Mr Ahmetović usually picked it up from this hall and here's who I can fix the wrong quote, he escaped.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10569	Rasrprava, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10570	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. This, regardless of these dissonant tones, I must express my personal satisfaction with what I have heard – that there is no position and opposition on the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I'm surprised that he's achieved such a bad enough or weak result in all these efforts. I must really say that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no alternative and it is finally time for this Parliament, as well as for the Council of Ministers, or for Parliament to act in the direction of the Council of Ministers, to open up a perspective for young people, for young people to see their perspective and their lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not for them to see how, say, 30 classes 56 of the first class of the Medical School in Tuzla will be opened (?) exclusively for reasons of going to Germany and looking for their perspective in Germany. So, I appeal to all those present in this room to stop respecting each other and to ask, here I am now looking at how many corrections there have been in the wrong quote, in no correction of the wrong quote I have heard anything of quality and nothing that would encourage me when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's path towards the EU. Since we talked mostly about things that concern the social segment of life, I'd say something about energy. You know, we all neglect energy, and no one is very concerned about these things, and when it comes to energy, it's just those measures that have been taken because of the fact that those things, the elemental things in the Third Energy Package, have caused certain sanctions against Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are still due to reduced standards, when it comes to the process of approaching the EU, are not so drastic and dramatic when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that instead of encouraging us to make a further step, it seems to us to try to do it just as vigorously and not do it, because Europe has put down standards, they will accept us and much, much less achievements than it has been done for some other countries or what is expected of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore call once again on everyone in this Chamber to make our full contribution and to really act as we discussed, because everyone has shown and I have not heard anyone say that it is against the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is important for us to fix the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina for at least two reasons. The first is what the EU is asking us to do, and the second is to fix a situation in a country that is completely dysfunctional and which is, so I can say freely, a country where the perspectives for people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina are slow. If you want, let's say specifically about this energy issue, so please take a look, for 10 years, it's a period of time to do something about energy. Moves in this area, I'm very glad that my colleague Šarović, or Mr. Šarović, is present here, that we can talk about these things, but I want to say that it's so little done, it's incredibly little done that we can't say, I think that this assessment that, let's say, someone has characterized there as a weak or thin two, even it can't be applied, except for some things that may be visible, some shifts, but all this is, like the liberalisation of the energy market in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the markets of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's formally made, but it doesn't work at all. The question of renewable energy sources, you know here is a serotype, let's not talk about renewable energy sources because it's worth some others that produce energy from mineral raw materials, so it's not that, it's not the point, it's not what the EU is asking us to do. Look, please, energy efficiency, we're choking on smog in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Kaknja and wherever else you want in other cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why it's mostly because energy efficiency has been completely ignored in whatever you want, given construction, whether street lighting, whether, uh, car registration, etc. So we're just not doing anything here. What is important and what is what is, which is, if it is, I want to believe that the universe is supporting efforts to adopt everything that the EU requires of us. We must have an energy strategy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How those who kill themselves by supporting our path to the EU simply cannot create that energy strategy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Gas law, internal market stability law, oil supply, oil derivatives and gas, so we don't have that either. We can talk about whatever we want, you know, but this is a matter that's very specific and even at this lecture that, or on a round table, I don't even know what that session was called here, which was led by Mr. Kopač, I was surprised that very few of us were present and very few were invited to be present there very little. That I've asked questions several times and on several occasions and I've received a very weak, incompetent answer when it comes to, say, specifically I'm the one who seems to have just set up the Third Energy Package. 57 So, please, let us not waste time in correcting false allegations in which nothing is said, let us concentrate and that we here take a unique position that we will transfer to the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers will be in front of whom we will make a commitment that as soon as possible before those obligations are realized, nothing more than what is said to be realized in 2016. So we don't need spectacular moves to say that we're going to adopt a hundred laws to come, which we have to adopt. And don't think there won't be any additional measures, we see it as an example of Serbia, Serbia gets shocked every time, gets a new measure. So we're going to get new measures, these are the measures that we have to meet, and there will be more, but first of all, it is necessary for us to activate ourselves as much as possible and to do our best to solve these issues as soon as possible. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10571	Thank you. Debate, Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10572	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have answered the discussion to say a few sentences concerning both this report and... my view of this discussion today on the report. I agree that on the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina we should not be divided into positions and opposition, we should all be unique, but when, in addition to this declaration, we are having a discussion on the 2015 Report then we should act accordingly. I am afraid that today's debate did not go in a completely different direction than some speakers would declare as their views and the commitment that is so necessary, as regards our unique approach and approach without division in the position and opposition when it comes to the European path. Here we need to tell the truth, we need to tell what it is and help the institutions that are implementing what needs to be implemented to make Bosnia and Herzegovina as successful as possible on its European path. It is true that at the beginning of the year we received a new EU approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina and its European path, it is true that the order of priorities has changed, that the more difficult political issues have been put on the other side, and that should be said honestly. But it is also true that the BiH Presidency adopted the Declaration that all parliamentary political parties signed the Declaration and that after 7 years of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement entered the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that was in this mandate and that is the fact. The fact is that the Reform Agenda has been adopted and that it is being implemented and that it should be said and that heavy reforms, given both the level and the entity, here I particularly think of the Labour Act, are adopted, and we should honestly say that. We need to encourage people who work at the Council of Ministers, who have unblocked the exports of agricultural products, I mention it for the second time, it's such an important and important thing to me, and every time I speak to the Minister in charge here in the O.R., and here I am taking the opportunity to thank him for his engagement in that. We should, therefore, as Parliament, say objectively what it is and say objectively what it is not, because I repeat this is a European path, a path where there should be no division in position and opposition. When you look at the context or the opening part itself, one passage of this report, you will find all these, therefore, facts and you will find two issues that burden Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path. This is a referendum, i.e. the Decision of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska on a referendum on justice and you will find unrealised, i.e. a misunderstanding under the Stabilisation and 58 Association Agreement relating to traditional trade. As Members of Parliament, we should encourage everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina to remove these obstacles, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is normally going its own ways. In each sectoral measure, here were some colleagues who listed what was done, some what was not done, should be fair to say what was done and what is waiting for us to make our European path more successful. Therefore, I think that co-workers and colleagues who have today reached conclusions or proposals asking the Council of Ministers for action in terms of establishing an Action Plan on the implementation of the European Commission report and the borrowing of institutions needed in Bosnia and Herzegovina to work on this right and think that these conclusions should be supported here in the parliamentary procedure. And finally, allow me just one more sentence about these false allegations and replicas. I think that we in the College are going to have to sit down and see how we treat it, because the guilty allegation has to mark the speaker and the alleged guilty one and only refer to the correction of the wrong quote. What we have today is very often not that, and very often it happens that instead of correcting the wrong quote rises up and then distorts the right assumption. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10573	Thank you. Debate, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10574	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll počeću with the same sentence I did last time. It's still an off-the-book translation. So we don't have any official translation and we're discussing something that's off the record, no matter who delivered it. That's what every page of this document says - off-the-book translation. And about the illogicalness of translation, here I have my colleague Arnaut, I could say a few sentences, let's just say, how illogical it is that there can be such a structure at all. I know he reads everything, so I hope he responds to it. Next thing you know, what I have to mention is that whoever sent the document, and we need to talk very seriously about this document, because it's something that means the future, not more of us, but of generations, should be here. Because a lot of misunderstandings and dilemmas, and in line with what we got in the prime minister's exposé, we should settle here. We can't get rid of them. Now I'm going to start, since we're discussing, the first thing that I find very incomprehensible is that we honor each other as if we're not on the same path, or I can't understand that we can share in such a topic, that is, when it comes to such a problem, in terms of us and you and them and these, sooner and now, opposition and position. I guess we here are representatives who have been delegated to the elections, to take steps further, so that this country can move forward. To support that, I will not start from the beginning of this document, but from the very end, that statistics. I don't know if we've read it, but it's very important. See that the number of inhabitants, according to their assessment, in the state, is shrinking. That our age is growing up, that we are becoming an aging, working incompetent, that... when it comes to purchasing power of the population, not GDP that we represent through growth of industry... etc., rather than the purchasing power of citizens, the same for 7 years, exactly the same, in 2011,2012. ...the same, which means it's falling. Because if inflation is, and it exists, purchasing power is falling. The growth index for which we are told this year, etc., from 2010 to today, has increased together 3.6%. The unemployment rate is frustrating. I won't take part of those who leave, because they gave it up, their education, their elementary school education, which means they don't have basic education. 59 The middle expert prepares over 32%, which is alarming because it means that we have a completely uncoordinated secondary education consistent with the needs of this country. High education 18%. Once again, a completely uncoordinated education, consistent with the needs of the country. And that's the trend of growth. Leaving education and profession at all is over 30%. Isn't that frustrating for young people? They invest, they study for something, and then they have to leave completely what they were trained for. And we want satisfied, we don't have the satisfaction. Now we can go to the sites, as my colleague Bećirević went. I'll start at the end again. So from downstairs, I won't go from top to bottom, because you didn't come to the end. On page 68, sectoral overall strategies remain a key condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina to use IPA funds. And then there's an explanation of how many of these strategies we have and why we can't actually access the IPA funds. The state, the Federation, the entities, the Brcko District, the cantons, they all have their own, and the way you approach and how you can access it, it's all unification and the whole strategy at the state level, it doesn't exist. And that is why we are not taking IPA funds to the extent that it should belong to Bosnia and Herzegovina at the stage of EU accession. That's on page 68. No co-operation agreement with Europol was signed on page 66. And then it is said that the strategy for fighting organised crime is in place, but the implementation is unequal due to a large number of action plans to implement the law throughout the country, which are fully interpreted and implemented differently. It's in this document again. I wanted to ask here, but there is no minister, how is it interpreted differently and implemented differently? What does that mean? Does that mean when someone, I apologize for the expression, that's the mahalion of our established, domestic, when someone's pecking millions, they treat it differently. He's being patted somewhere and said he's backed up by a good businessman, on the other side of the street, he's being arrested. He's arrested for stealing a bag of potatoes. What does this mean? And then they talk about corruption and money laundering. Now you look at what it says there because it's in the economic part, when it comes to stabilising economic flows, the legal movement of money, etc., a very important segment. So read how successful we are. That's what it says in this document. A hundred and change and so much so started, for money laundering so far, find out how much it's ruined and how much money and where it's found. No affair, no affair, no miracles of Božija, but no money anywhere. Washed there, washed here, maybe it's in washing machines. Ladies know, I guess they're at the husbands' place in their pockets, so they wash their money. Maybe that's the idea of money laundering with us. Don't laugh, and you used to do it, wash it, and check your pockets and accidentally the other 100 marks. And it's clear that this segment is very pronounced because everyone sitting here, and every single one who says he doesn't know, I won't say goodbye to him anymore. They know how many citizens of this country have bought apartments in Dubai, Vienna, Germany, how many of them there are, and from there it regularly arrives as if it was sending them Santa Claus, how many citizens of this country compared to the number of inhabitants, and you had this statistical data, 211 cars per 1,000 inhabitants, but nobody says how many Porsches there are, how many Q7 out of 200,000. To buy it in Germany, in any EU country, at the same time tax or financial authorities come to your door if you didn't have that money and for that paid tax liability money. So you didn't legally acquire it. There's no one living here who controls it. You have the same thing in this document, it says 211 cars per 1,000 inhabitants, so read it, I don't mind. Page 64 is particularly symptomatic. She treats the police segment and there is now a connection between terrorism, organised crime, and it is necessary to read what opinion they have given there on co-operation between police agencies and police at all. The laws – yes, all preconditions for independent functioning created – yes, and then but. What does "but" mean? Politics directly influences, politics determines, politics dictates, politics gives guidance, and people don't actually perform their function, and they don't have what's called a single, equal, uniform. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10575	Thank you very much, Mr. Backović. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10576	Thank you. You see, our club is extremely dedicated, and this is what Mr. Đonalić said very clearly, that in this point of the agenda at least, we are dealing exclusively with the essence, or we are always dealing with the essence, but that we are appealing to others to deal with the essence exclusively. But Mr. Backović doesn't deal with the essence here, and he's asking for my support. I know it's not malicious, but you called me, and I need to react. You see, this is a European Commission document. The translation was done by their translators and bearing the mark – unofficially, it just means that it was not done by an authorised court interpreter. So it doesn't matter if the translation is official or off the record, it matters whether it's good or not. And I'm, well noticed, I read everything, so I found it on the website of the European Commission and the original in English, and I compared it to this unofficial translation, and even though I'm not a judicial interpreter, I can objectively say that it's an extremely good translation. And I see absolutely nothing controversial in this unofficial translation. And the fact that they put him off the record, he's just being honest with people, they say he wasn't a judicial interpreter. But the point is, it's a good translation. And since you've already called me, here's what I can objectively confirm even though I'm not a court interpreter, but I don't think it's a matter of essence, if we're getting caught up in whether it's an official or unofficial translation. I think it's very clear from this progress report. I think it is very clear that certain shifts have been made and I think that what is most clear are the tasks set before Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016. And SBB is definitely a party that is fully determined to make its contribution to the maximum, so that these tasks set out for 2016 and, of course, afterwards are fully met. So I join my colleague Đonlagić in calling on everyone to, when at least this point of the agenda, deal with the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10577	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10578	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry to have to answer that, even though I've been criticizing these wrong allegations. But there's something said here now that I don't think it's good, that you can't buy a car in Germany without getting the police to your door right away. That's not true, but there are procedures and it's known how it's done, and if somewhere at the end of those procedures, at the end of the year, there's something not in line with the revenues, then the applications go, but to buy a car and get the police at your door, so that's impossible. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10579	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10580	Dear Đonlagić, read in the stenogram as I have and in what way I have said it. I said if you find that money is not legally obtained, it is not from your account, you are not a loan that you will be able to repay from your income, at the same time it will happen to you. You have examples of our people who won't be told here that they tried cash to make and buy in the same Germany and their money was seized. When we get to that stage, we'll talk about names. Two, just one, Damir, translation, just one. I'm sorry. I have to sit down because I have to read the text. A certain level of preparation has been reached in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial system. Take the original, then read it. So I'll give you more of these examples from this text as much as you want. Therefore, I did not say anything in negative here, but what we need to do, to get wings as soon as possible and to move towards the EU as soon as possible. My goal, and the first Law on State Property, is that Mr. Mehmedović and I already gave them, but now we're going to bomb the laws, because nobody's going to deliver them, and all these laws are available to us because they're being translated by the German and French, and like this, and by the family law that's Finnish and then it's wrong, because it doesn't make it right that it can't be from your aunt's daughter's son-in-law to your heir. But that's how we have it, that's how we translate it, and that's how we adopt it. We will deliver the laws that are necessary for this country to take those steps towards the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10581	Thank you very much. Mr. Safer Demirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10582	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and, of course, all present in the O.R. Of course I'll be as brief as possible, since it's been a long discussion and I'll stick to the topic that is here. I fully agree with all my colleagues, bound to say that this agenda item is very important to all of us and perhaps the most important in all of this process. And I will be honest and say that I have read this material carefully for two reasons. The first reason is because I wanted to see how those we strive to see us, our current state, and what we do and fulfill in those obligations. And the other thing is that before I got this material, we all had a chance to hear that this is actually the best European Commission report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress on its path to the EU. And when I read this material, then I got to say, I got to thinking about what other materials were, what other reports were like when this was the best. There's this report, I think it's written as it's written, written by people from the European Commission and talked about both the advantages and the shortcomings, and I don't want to discuss it, to repeat how it is listed there in various chapters. What I am looking forward to today's discussion, and on the basis of which I would suggest to the Council of Ministers, ministers present here, that we do not have positions 62 and the opposition in the process of European integration. And since this material is so exact, so precise and what we have accomplished and what we have failed to meet and what is coming for us, that, in future, all of this from here on out of this material is just being painted into their work programme and told us this is from that European Commission report, this is our responsibility, so let's see who's actually here on the European road and who isn't. That's the first thing. And, secondly, regarding the report itself, I can agree that there are some things that may not be quite the most accurate, but the general report has accurately detected and in 99% of the things that are precise about our true state and definitely that people from the European Commission are very familiar with the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what we do, what we need to do and what we don't want to do. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10583	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister's Council, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister, Mr Mirko Šarović will address the House. Here you go, Mr. Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10584	Thank you. I say hello again. Well, since there's been a lot of discussion and corrections and a lot of things being said, maybe this is the last thing you honourable MPs have said that I wanted to say first, which is that this is actually the best report by the European Commission so far. And that's a naked fact and it's not our assessment, the assessment is Brisel and the European Commission's assessment that Bosnia and Herzegovina made progress in 2015. Now, nature we can talk about how much progress that is. It all depends on what started in 2015, and hence the assessment that it was a thin two, a two, a three, a four, of course we can talk about, but this is a fact – a report that basically gave us the opportunity to define some of our goals in several documents and tie them to 2017. And that's a clear fact, because we know that the candidate status was expected in 2017 and only a few months ago we said it was an ambitious goal and that it would be a major venture for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here, thanks to this progress, we are talking about whether we will submit the application in January or whether it will happen a few months later. I mean, I see only well in it. And maybe I should say that the Presidency is the one who runs the foreign policy and it will determine when they will submit the application, no one else. And it would be ideal, fantastic, if it were in January. But it would be great if it could happen for maybe a near, near future. The dilemmas are only whether this determined expectation of the European Commission from Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether we can achieve them in such a short time. And they're not clear conditions, they're, I'd say, expectations, because we can take the app tomorrow, but there's someone else who's going to evaluate that app. And in several official meetings involving the Presidency at the highest level in Brussels, including a series of committees, i.e. the Stabilisation and Association Council recently, several weeks ago, we heard from Brisel officials and Mrs Mogarini and Hana that when they submit an application for candidate status, we finally resolve a question that can be called a conditional adaptation of the SAA, because we are talking about this in a different way, whether it is an additional Protocol, whether it is an adaptation or an adaptation, and it is called on Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the negotiations. Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to have a credible implementation of the Reform Agenda and is expected from Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt 63, finally adopt a co-ordination mechanism in line with the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has become, signed the SAA and that, in line with the SAA, which took effect in June, it is necessary to implement certain adaptations. That is the essence and, of course, that is the question that stands before all of us in some way. In Brussels, implementation of the Reform Agenda was estimated to be a satisfactory pace, even more than the European Commission expected. They expect us to finish this part of the work relating to the coordination mechanism. But I wouldn't go into the details right now, really, and I wouldn't take it, and for the sake of this time that's going on behind me, but the hardest question will be the adaptation of the SAA. It is from the European Commission's point of view simply, where we are practically expected to sign the adjustment and in line with traditional trade, but on the other hand, the position of both the Presidency and the negotiating team that the agriculture sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina is so sensitive that we need to find a way to protect this most sensitive part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. And right now, so today in Brussels, technical consultations are being held, a negotiating position will be adopted, and much depends on whether the candidate status, or the application, will be submitted in January, or will be in February, or March, etc. The Bureau's expectations are of course this job ends as soon as possible. Here, Chairman, thank you, I'd say, but I don't think in this summary I'd say anything more about this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10585	Thank you, Mr. Šarović, for this information, for the address. I don't have any more reports, so I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We're going to point eight, Ad. 8. Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers Reform Agenda, submitr: Council of Ministers of BiH According to the 16th session of the BiH Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives delivered the Action Plan in the procedure on 28.10.2015. The Joint Commission for European Integration delivered its opinion on the Action Plan 04.12.2015. The Commission took note of the Plan and proposed to the colleagues of the homes its inclusion in the agenda of the meeting at home. By decision of the College of the House of Representatives, the Action Plan is included in the agenda of the 22nd session of the House. At the 22nd session of the House, he decided to postpone the debate on this agenda for the next session of the House of Representatives. That's the opening remarks. I'm opening a debate. I give my word to Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10587	My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed others present, I welcome you all first. Well, here comes the first calendar year of work of the new Council of Ministers. Within that year, among other things, we adopted two budgets, and at least we from the parliamentary majority, it seems to me, in all other jobs, were strong support to the work of the Council of Ministers in that most difficult year, the year of initiation (?"I would say we show stronger support for respect and respect for the Council of Ministers than vice versa. That, 64 of course, speaks of the presence or the absence of the Council of Ministers. I'll honestly say that from the point of view sometimes it bothers us. But here, therefore, I think that at the beginning of this new calendar year, it is very important in the work of this Parliament, the Council of Ministers, that it is not completely unannounced that we, too, from the parliamentary majority, express a critical or self-critical position in relation to the work and, perhaps, Parliament and the Council of Ministers. And I'm going to use it in some way to discuss the action plan that we have here in front of us. We discussed the reform agenda last year, we adopted it, and I have to say that we met a rare beast in this country, within the adoption and debates of course at the Council of Ministers and at lower levels. This is a successful agreement at different levels of government. This rare beast is likely to be honored with strong benefits on both the foreign and internal political agendas that we received from this Reform Agenda. I'd say these benefites are more powerful than the very essence of that one principle and framework document. And when you expect a document that this one principled framework plan will develop at the level of action, the Action Plan, you expect it to be a slightly broader document than the principle plan and the Agenda itself. And when we compare the number of characters in the Agenda... To the action plan, I didn't do it in detail, but my eyes seem to me, they don't cheat, there are more signs in the Agenda than in the Action Plan. And by the definition of the Action Plan, or at least by my understanding of the Action Plan, this Action Plan should, in my opinion, be something more concrete, more detailed, more comprehensive and consistent, in order to be successful. In fact, what we have received is more similar to the base or working material for making, I hope within the Council of Ministers and Ministries, a single Action Plan that will result in the implementation of the Reform Agenda. And here, right now, the minister said that this is very important and, in fact, the most important thing on the European path, and that is what we are expected to do. About that one little self-critical tone. I will certainly look back here and a few specific details of this action plan. Of course, by having an illusion, I know that this Action Plan has been adopted, that we are taking it into consideration here, but here's an idea, the illusion that some of what I'm saying and in the concrete part of this Action Plan will eventually be innate with some ideas or... or fall on fertile soil, so to speak. First, specifically what I see... To the action plan when we have this form of framework timeframe, that these timelines were unrealistically brave, I think, here. We've got a lot of time behind us, and at least for some of these things, I can see they're not realized. I wish we had got here, or I wish there was a Council of Ministers novembered framework timeframe that would respect reality in these details. What I'd like to potentially specifically warn myself about, I apologize to come to this here, a few things that perhaps, I'm thinking about, something different than was defined in the Action Plan. On page 2 of point 5 – increase excise duties on tobacco and alcohol in favour of stabilising the health sectors of entities and cantons. The activity will begin after the health sector reform is adopted at the level of entities and cantons. I really think that the activity of the health sector reform is closely linked to the financial stabilisation and recovery of the same sector, and that it would be far better to do so under a system of combined vessels and that the money, which will eventually enter the health sector in this way, in parallel with the sector's reform, because it seems impossible for me to reform without an apparent need for financial recovery and stabilisation of the sector. And on the other hand, I really don't care if it's alcohol and tobacco, whether it's a cigarette, a pack of cigarettes or a bottle of liquor, and how much it's going to cost, because I don't think it's the social issue of this country, and that's the part where we have the space right now. On the other hand, it could possibly be a problem with that part of domestic production. In the first place, I think, possibly, of wine and beer production, but I think it's a very smart system of incentives and subsidies and of increased excise duties that can result in competitiveness, increased competitiveness of domestic production, rather than domestic production problems. On page 5, I will give a concrete example, writes – comprehensively... parafiscal accusations and impose moratorium for new ones. This would give rise to economic recovery and applies only to those laws that are passed at the state level. I'm going to give an example of parafiscal intrusion when we want to measure 65 of any instrument in this country, any measure instrument, any measured place, then we're going to get an account with two fees. One is paid, at least at the level of the Federation, one is paid to the federal measuring institution, the other is paid to the state measuring institution. This is the most escalating example of the state's experience through parafiscal pressures in relation to the economy. And indeed, here, too, should look for that rare match and let it apply only to what's at the state level, but it's about consent. I hurried to report on this agenda point because I felt that this part of the opposition in Parliament, this, would have something to say about this Action Plan, and in a way perhaps as I have spoken, so I wanted to take away a part of that story perhaps even to the people of the opposition, and I would like this part of the story to be understood as strong support to the Council of Ministers in the real future implementation of this Action Plan at Ministry level and as a strong desire to implement the Reform Agenda, and I hope that you will understand and convey the rest of the Council of Ministers which I do not thank here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10588	Thank you. Now the correction of the wrong quote and discussion at the same time has Mr. Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10589	Here, first correction of the wrong quote. So, I'm going to use this space to, and it's in the direction of making it possible for the best and better debate, that perhaps a representative of the Council of Ministers tells us, we adopted this Action Plan on 06.10 at the Council of Ministers, for the first time we had it at this session, so today it's January 12th, it's been over 3 months, so why don't we have some fresher information that's been done in the mere time. Here, he says there is, and then I would ask Mr. Šarović, the minister, to inform us about it, because in that sense, this will, uh, affect the further course of my debate. So then after that man's, what's his name, I'll take a word for it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10590	Does the minister want to discuss it? So, if you want to have always, you when you call you have the advantage of the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10591	Thank you. Well, perhaps in one sentence to say that this is true, it has been a significant time, in the mere time of the Council of Ministers at the last session, adopted a new Report innovated with, I would say, a new significant progress on implementation, when it comes to the implementation of the Reform Agenda and an innovative Action Plan. So perhaps the solution is to immediately deliver this material to all MPs during this week, so I don't see another solution, because to do it now in this session I think it would be difficult, impossible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10592	Thank you. Senad Šepić, there's been a debate here. Are you staying for the debate now? 66
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10593	I'm staying.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10594	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10595	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I thank you, here, Minister, for helping us, so in one part of this, that right now we have, in particular, those activities that are listed in the Action Plan that will be completed by January, that we are a good part of them or we are done or some of us are in the process of working. So, perhaps from this, perhaps from today's short answer, the most important thing is to confirm why it is important, why I have insisted repeatedly here in Parliament, that we have, at every session of the House, that we have information as far as it came in the process of meeting the conditions of, after the process of meeting the conditions on the European path, meeting the Agenda. So we have it on official duty. ...every time in the session that we receive that information we would not, today, have this situation in which, in this way, we should, as I say, call and put ourselves in a position to respond. So here I am, at the end of this discussion, going to renew this initiative once again and ask the College to make the most of it, as I would say, an acceptable solution, but really that this, that we politically determine that these are our priorities in the work of this Parliamentary Assembly. So, from the November report of the European Commission, I'm going to make a short connection, I was saying that at the last point, which is what some 80-accommodations of concrete things that the European Commission is expecting from us this year. So in 2016, we are expected to adopt a public administration reform strategy for all Bosnia and Herzegovina and to provide political support for its implementation. Then, to deal more with investigations of threats to journalists, to create financial security for public broadcasters and to enable their independent watchmaking policy, etc., etc., now so as not to spend time on it. So here at the last point of the agenda we have proposed some similar conclusions, it is my question – why and whether the Directorate for European Integration and the Council of Ministers has so far prepared some sort of action plan to determine who and when has to do what, specifically, to make this report better next year. So this, I think, is much more important to do, not in a political sense, but in what is called a sense, which is to achieve the degree of compliance with these European standards. So, and therefore, here's what I'm going to suggest is that we accept one such conclusion on this agenda. The second thing that confuses us all and creates this confusion in Bosnia and Herzegovina is this relationship with whether we have adopted or have not adopted a coordination mechanism, as it is, what we do with it, how we apply it, how we function. I was recently in Brussels where people, uh, in the most important places in the European institutions, told me that Chairman Zvizdić, so said that the coordination mechanism exists, that he was almost and signed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we need that coordination mechanism. It is my question – what is not public, what is not Parliament, why do we here in Parliament really know nothing about it, why is this not a public document? Because, you know, if we're talking about this, the image we create in these EU institutions, then it's really totally wrong for us to talk to each other and talk or do the other. 67 And the third thing that I would draw attention to is – why is the Council of Ministers sending signals to the EU that are contrary... The BiH presidency's decision to apply for membership this year in January. So, my suggestion, even if we disagree, and today I understand very well, this, the explanation of Minister Šarović, I think that still in the public space and uncoordinated statements make us all hurt, we turn out to be a little bit all non-serious, and I don't want this opportunity that we now have, at this point more positive and much more positive than it was before, to miss it. And right here, I'm not going to quote some statements, someone mentioned it here today, what, uh, how we've been, and how we've been texting about deadlines when we're going to hand over the app. So, I have another question to ask. Since the other, and that may be the hard part right now at this point, the conditions for handing over the application, is this adaptation of the SAA, so one of my issues is concrete – do we now as a country, and has the Council of Ministers made, an analysis with concrete data as far as we as have benefited from the fact that Croatia is no longer in CEFTA. And, therefore, as far as we had, as a country, the benefits of not accepting the adaptation of the SAA so far. I understand this relationship... so our agricultural producers and I think I have some ideas here that we could do it the best way forward, uh, communicate. But in order for us to be able to discuss it in a credible way, it's important that we have that information that really means what we're blocking it. Here, I have recently received one piece of information that, the media have announced, that by not renewing the preferential trade measures according to Bosnia and Herzegovina on 01.01, so ten days ago, Bosnia and Herzegovina lost 4 million marks. So, and it happened as a punishment for not accepting the SAA's adaptation. So, on the other hand, we heard one statement from the finance ministry and the vaults saying that Bosnia and Herzegovina can suffer this loss of 4 million marks. So now I'm interested -- which is why the Ministry has concluded that we as a state can handle it and whether those companies that are going to lose will be compensated, which have lost these funds due to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury account. So, what's important to us is this information I just told you. So we would know exactly how much money we've made so far based on the fact that we haven't done this adaptation conditionally and, on the other hand, whether we're going to return these funds to those businessmen who are not, as it's called, because they've come into effect some other repressive measures and that's why they've now lost funds at this point. So, what may be important to clarify, at this point, this 4 million of these, as it is called, marks of damages paid by bh businesses, and due to the failure to adapt the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and customs to Croatian products, therefore these funds go to the Treasury of the Direct Taxation Administration, so in the state register. And of course, in order for that to turn out now, it turns out that we prefer to have some funds in the register than... the funds will be for the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why, in that sense, my question, and on the other hand, the initiative is that we do exactly that information, so what we've had so far because we haven't done this adaptation in time, or... The SP which is on the other hand and the condition that we submit this credible application. And here in the end, everything we do in Bosnia and Herzegovina has to be followed by our active lobbying outside. So that's why my third and perhaps fourth question -- did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs contact and inform on everything so far, not only do I mean the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but, otherwise, the institutions of BiH, or the Council of Ministers, about everything so far, and whether they have been contacted by all 28 Member States, in a way, but also... prepare for this process when we submit the application. 68 And finally, I belong to the order of those people who really, who thinks we should have submitted the app a long time ago, formally. I'm particularly upset when it's said we'll get some, I don't know, what it's called, a sign from someone, so someone... will let us know, etc. I see this process in a different way. I think that with our relationship in Bosnia and Herzegovina and our one open, courageous, institutional approach, we confirm these people in the European Commission in the EU and show that we truly want to. And that's why I think the application in January is better than the application in March, because only when we apply, so, we get on the other side, this, it's going to show, we're actually going to show that we really want to run this process, and on the other hand, we're going to find out what the actual conditions are and what the further steps are for... applications. I, therefore, once again here, address the House College and appeal to the House's leadership, from this example today, we are about, I said it at the beginning, again, to confirm how important it is for us to regularly inform ourselves, so let whoever likes to read it, let those who don't like to... read it, but to establish the rule that at every session in the materials and that at each session of this House we have, therefore, one of the points of the agenda relating to the obligation, namely the information on the degree, the achieved level of meeting the conditions on the European path and what was done until then in the fulfillment of the Action Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10596	Dušanka Majkić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10597	Thank you very much. Here, this is the agenda point that shows where we are. If the Action Plan should show how far we've come to meet our commitments under the Reform Agenda, then we're nowhere to be found. I am not one of those who wants to attack something just because it does not belong to that parliamentary majority, but I would like the arguments that those who defend it to be really arguments behind. Well, look, please, what is the relationship of this House? Tolerant to the Council of Ministers who insists on not doing what he's obliged to do. We, as someone said earlier, need to give them support, so that's their job, what kind of support, that's what they should be doing. Now what is this relationship to us? It is evident that, say, the Council of Ministers at the 26th session, since 06.10.2015, watch out for 06.10, adopted this Action Plan, and it took 22 days to send it to Parliament, to get to know Parliament about it. And it takes us three months to open it up as a part of the agenda. My colleague Šepiću, who you're talking about, is that every session we talk about, so three months after the adoption of the Action Plan, we're talking about this. The government...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10598	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10599	Republika Srpska's government adopted the Action Plan on 27.08 and the Federation government adopted 17.09. And when I tried to reach out to the other action plans, then I saw that only two cantonal, two cantonal governments, and it was the government of the Un-Sancan Canton and the Women-Dobby Canton, that did the action plans, of only 10 means only two, and the government of the Brcko District did its part of the job. So, if 8 cantonal governments didn't do their job, how do I know where we are, and 69 Council of Ministers delivered what he delivered. Why is this action plan important? He was supposed to define the goals. From these objectives, they had to produce precisely certain measures, with precisely determined operators of activity and precisely defined deadlines. What do we have here, what does this Action Plan look like and on what basis can we monitor when by tomorrow...? There's no way. This Action Plan can't compete with anything. Now watch how... what it contains. Only four areas I touch, this action plan, means the Council of Ministers. Public finances and taxation and fiscal sustainability only 9 activities, so roughly written; business climate and competitiveness 4 activities; the rule of law sector and the good governance of 16 activities and the public administration sector, which everyone talks about so much, 4 activities. Well, what action plan are you guys talking about, the action plan we're talking about? I don't think this represents anything, because when you open it and you start to analyze it then you see that it's a grouped set of questions, it's probably someone who's thought of doing something urgent to transfer it to Parliament to say, here's something we have. Well, I guess they'll suspect we'll deal with it, that's... it's analytical. Therefore, the adoption of new laws from the financial sector in line with EU directives and the Basel conditions, and to this comment, refers to all the laws adopted at the state level. What laws, when laws? So, guys, this is nothing. This is being dumped so that we're sitting around here for a while, forgetting that next time there's going to be some kind of action plan that won't mean anything to us. So, I propose that we adopt one conclusion – that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Presidency asks the Council of Ministers to deliver the precise plans of BiH institutions in charge of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda by 28.02, with a clear list of all activities, operators of activities and deadlines for implementation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10600	Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10601	Thank you very much. Here, for starters, I would disagree with the honourable representative, Mrs. Majkić, if this were nothing. This is very, very much, this is so offensive that it's inadmissible. Delivering us this text really doesn't make any sense. When I read him some of that I don't understand, I don't believe a thing, so I don't think that this is really supposed to come in front of the MPs. As an illustration, I will state something later, but I have to say what the distinguished Minister Šarović, if I understand correctly, at the beginning of the previous address, said approximately – the European Commission should be pleased with the implementation of the Reform Agenda. Of course, and it will be if this same material is delivered, because there's nothing left for us to do in this material. December, maybe something in January, and everything else was supposed to be over by these deadlines. And then in the second address of the Honorable Minister, we heard that this wasn't, that it wasn't, that what we got was that there was something else we didn't. Anyway, here's a lot of questions and concerns. As an illustration of the takeover, here are a few examples, let me, because I can't read from here, I'm starting from the last item, the last activity, which I really don't understand, and I'd like someone to explain to me, an activity called providing full support to the successful realization of the census, households and apartments, with full respect for the provisions of the Census Act, sublegal regulations and European statistical standards in the list of activities – implementation of 70 December 2015. And then, in turn, it may have kind of distracted me that the focus on the fund of wages in terms of savings, he says -- to establish a total public sector pay fund, so later on, and that's, of course, November, again, December, we did it all to cut public expenditures. So it will later be that this task, here it is successfully realised and that it has already been developed and adopted a methodology for limiting wages in the public sector. So again, he pays something, mostly the focus is on pay, nowhere on public expenditure. The question is, of course, why this does not cover what everyone, which is in a state of pain, is spending in public administration, on phones, on a rolling stock, on a 24-hour stand available on leather what everything, various receipts based on appointments, etc. He says -- and the frozen total fund pays. The second item that drew my attention, he says – to carry out an analysis of the Law of Conflict of Interest. What we need is an analysis of the Law of Conflict of Interest when we don't apply it. We have asked, now we have our Commission for the Independent Committee and for, well, either to stop these committees calling themselves independent or not to appoint parties in them at the same time in second place and in such independent committees. And our Commission answered around that everyone should say in person – I am not living, I am not speaking, I am not in conflict of interest, because it is only an approach that he declares himself and says – believe me, I am not, he swears, etc. He says in one place – to carry out an assessment of the work of police agencies, one of the activities, and what is being imposed on me as a question is – whether he intends to reconsider the justification of such agencies of existence, especially as a member of the Bureau, Mr Ivanić, once spoke of the reduction of such a number of various agencies, and also of some, which would be worth reviewing whether we need them or not. The chairman of the Council of Ministers thus spoke of this as a need, but I do not see it in the Reform Agenda. And, mostly, there's an adopted Strategy for Integrated Management. Here we are more and more asking questions about borders, border crossings. We have a director of the Direct Taxation Board who is at the same time the President of the Commission for Integrated Management, so when a question comes to the President, he tells the Director of the Administration, then he tells the Commission for Integrated Management whose head he is, and so on. And all that stands here is that it's already done, adopted, done. In that respect, I don't think there's any sense in having this material delivered to us, and we don't have a chance, and here today we all thank the distinguished ministers who sit with us all the time without a break. And that, by the way, I'm going to object to the College that without a break today is work, which is why it's like this at the border and the quorum. There's a quorum at the border, behind, at the border. But here, it really would take a lot, so I think the thematic session would be insufficient to discuss the Reform Agenda, the objectives, the activities, the deadlines and everything, and how much this really is or isn't, and how much it makes sense for some of the activities here to point out. Here, I really didn't understand this last one. There's a lot more in this series. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10602	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10603	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My correction to the wrong quote refers to the discussion of my colleague Vajzović and my colleague Majkić in part. If this Action Plan could have been better probably is, but I think in this society today the success of this Parliament is, and I am truly grateful, here we have two 71 ministers sitting, the minister and the minister sitting around all day, and the rest of the Council of Ministers is gone. It shows otherwise a relationship to everything, but... this is a success. I don't know if the Federation Parliament is considering the Federation government's action plan, I don't suppose it is. My colleagues at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska asked the Vlada for an akcion Plan the other day, as an economic policy was being considered for 2016, which was based on the Action Plan. And you know what the answer was, they asked for a break to deliver it, to go online, that was the response of the Republika Srpska government. And therefore, I am glad that we opened this debate here so that it can do better – it can, it has to work faster – the sea, the other day I had in Bijeljina at our mayor came investors from Switzerland, from the diaspora, you know what they were complaining about? To corruption in this society, that they don't trust anyone while there's so much corruption that they won't invest here on very difficult conditions to invest, because it takes them half a year, a year to register a company. And that Council of Ministers has to work together with, or here's an example, the man, I pray there's a minister someone that... I'll end up seeing that I'm running out of time, the man who founded the company here wants to import machines from abroad, came to the Department of Direct Taxation, asked for a VAT number. They told him, he says - you can't get it because you didn't traffic 50,000, but you know how to handle it. He said - I need to import machines. So he says, "Let someone take it to you, and send it back to you in a fictional fashion." He says, "When you drive the machines, return the money." Imagine a man coming from Switzerland from an hour of system to tell him something like that. But these are unfortunately some of our legal failures. We cannot blame neither the Council of Ministers nor anyone, but we can ask the Council of Ministers to fix the laws and act more quickly and efficiently. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10604	jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10605	I thank the chairman. As President of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest, I must react and say that the Commission for the Decision on the conflict of interest works in accordance with the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions and sublaws. This means that, in accordance with the Law and the sublaws, procedures are conducted and decisions are taken by the Commission on the basis of these legal provisions. But I will also take this opportunity to say that I welcome the planning activity in this Action Plan, which will analyse the Law on Conflict of Interest with the aim of determining the possibilities to combat conflicts of interest more effectively and to tighten sanctions for their non-compliance. With that here, I think it's a mistake within these framework time limits, because the Action Plan states that this analysis will be done by December 2016. And the next activity based on an analysis suggests amendments and additions to the Law on Conflict of Interest, and it is stated that it will be done in February 2016. I think these two are time-consuming, these two time-limits are replaced, so it's a mistake in this action plan. I was going to answer for the discussion, too, but I'm going to take this opportunity not to answer again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10606	Correction of the wrong quote, Hanko Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10607	Thank you very much. 72 I don't really know if it's an correction, I want to explain, especially to my colleague Pandurević, that I didn't intend to disqualify such an action plan, but it's inadmissible to write us everything is done, all the deadlines are that, that, that, and of course I suppose not by the ministers personally but by some services. In what way is it arranged, what does that mean? It's unserious to send MPs this kind of text. That's what I wanted to point out is that it's just more serious and not being told it's over. Here, let's get this new one, which we didn't get, where it stands, I guess, more realistically, what it's done, what it's supposed to do. And fellow Emrić, I've just pointed out that, you don't need to analyze the laws, if they're not good, let's change them, supplement them. You did according to the law, but by law it turned out that it would, that it would be okay when someone swore that he wasn't in conflict of interest. I'm talking about it, and you answered one question for, I don't know, the Board of Appeals again, the Board of Appeals and something where my colleague, Gasal, asked a question, so to speak -- he pleaded that he was not in conflict of interest. That's what I'm talking about, we're not going to analyze, let's change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10608	Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10609	Thank you. I have also said at the presentation of the current prime minister, Mr Zvizdić, that in this Parliament I will always support everything that brings Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to European integration and everything that strengthens our path to Euro-Atlantic integration. Of course, since we have a concrete Action Plan ahead of us, on the question – is what is written in this Action Plan enough, the answer is certainly not. And there, counterpart Kožul rightly pointed out Vajzović particular that this is quite certain in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina's needs and insufficient and insufficient. meċutim, I repeat and apply to what I said and to what I said in the prime minister's statement last February, any shift, or even the smallest in this country, of the SDP, and I believe all other opposition political parties in this House, will ultimately support it. And I must note that the opposition is much more constructive in this session than the opposition in the last term, so there will probably be no chance after 2018 that someone, like my colleague Magazinović at the last session, draws records, so it shows that for 180th change views only within a year. So, to avoid any misunderstanding, the SDP Club will still support this Action Plan of the Council of Ministers of BiH and we think it is very important that on all issues, and in particular we have one consistent, consistent and responsible approach. I agree with my colleague Šepić, we needed an answer to both the previous agenda and this, why it hides what the solution to this coordination mechanism is. This and this Parliament and the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina must know, especially if a solution already exists. Is that one vote or is that, Bog forbid, made 14 votes out of one vote, so that it looks more like political cacophony than the coordination mechanism. That is why we are obliged and we need to hear it here and in Parliament as soon as possible. Given, therefore, that this Action Plan is on the agenda, I would now propose something concrete to the BiH Council of Ministers, and I believe this proposal is acceptable to both the positional and the opposition MPs. In this Action Plan, first, it is necessary to adapt the terminology to one such Action Plan. When I say delete these types of formulations significantly 73 improve. What does it mean to be significant? Try in this entire Action Plan to set up some measurable things to enable both you and we and the public to follow these things more easily. The following is what I propose in this Action Plan, the last table refers to the comment and here is just an example of this first activity, says the comment – this activity is carried out together with entity governments, and in column 3 the deadline was October – December 2015. I suggest you delete this column - comment, instead of "commentary" that stands a column bearing the title "result", and that it is clearly written or not implemented. In case something is not implemented, enter another column in which it will write responsible for non-realization and specify exactly, mark, who is responsible for it. It will also help the Council of Ministers, and this Parliament, and the position, and the opposition, to be a little safer and more credible towards the citizens, and certainly that all of us together retaliated so that we know exactly what we have ended, which we haven't, and if we haven't done something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10610	Lazar Prodanović, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10611	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I wanted to say that often, I'm sorry that we didn't combine both agenda points on the seventh and eighth, we'd be more efficient and we wouldn't repeat ourselves on some issues, but here's the thing, I wanted to point out that we sometimes, uh, misrepresent the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to... the second one sees, I speak first of all to the European Commission and the views on our progress. You see, the manner of Europeans is that, to greet you, you are kindly advised to do so, and the results are quite visible from a simple example at the end of last year when the European Parliament almost unanimously adopted a resolution on suspending opportunities, so on traditional trade in fruit and vegetables exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're like in that sense you know we're gonna do it for the next two months and we haven't made any progress. Do not be fooled by optimistic attitudes here, I believe, when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, this House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples must do much more to the effectiveness of the implementation of the Action Plan for Reform, in line with the Reform Agenda. It's very slow going, they have disturbing attitudes that, in my opinion, have no excuse at all. I will fokusirati only on a segment relating to health sector reform. As it is possible that the Council of Ministers has not sent, by the end of last year, the Law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in the segment of increasing excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, i.e. cigarettes and tobacco processing and alcohol, in order to create the assumption that the alarmingly high rates of contribution, which are the authority of the entity, are reducing and making it much more likely for the efficiency and competitiveness of the labour force in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the attractiveness for direct foreign investment and the creation of new jobs. Here it is said, in this position listed in section 5, says – when entity governments bring in a programme, i.e. a reform of the health sector. These amendments to the law could be passed without any problems, and the right to financial assistance to budgets would be in effect at the moment when the action plan, i.e. health system reform, was adopted. How is it possible in one part to state that more effective work by tax administrations is needed, so entities and administrations for indirect taxation, and we do not make it clear that we are determined to significantly change criminal legislation from the tax evasion segment. And that the competent judicial institutions are strongly sanctioned, therefore by penalties, 74 of the most drastic prison sentences are tax evasion, and on the other hand we torture the poor little entrepreneurs and put them out of these new jobs to raise funds and how. So there's absolutely no excuse. takoċe, it is unacceptable to declare here at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we will not support something that is an absolute commitment to this Action Plan. This is also the obligation of the majority, the obligation in terms of reform processes and the opposition to support it, I will specifically say when it comes to the increase, i.e. the amendment of the Oil and Oil Excise Act. What's the reason? We can't behave here as a position or opposition if we expect to, like, speak specifically, as an opposition if we expect a benefit in the budgets of certain public institutions, in this case, for example, companies for roads or health funds. So we must finally stop with the political games around these stories and too long this period. We do not have time to do much more to implement the Reform Agenda in the right way. takoċe, what does health reform even mean? If we're not willing to bring it in, it's certainly the jurisdiction of lower levels of government, action plans, so, and in connection... and if we're not prepared for every director criminally, so do criminally responsible for non-payment, let's say, a contribution or a salary tax. What does that even mean? So, what's it gonna mean if we opt for reform and we don't make a recovery of a sector? So it's just some of the questions... that there's a responsibility. There is a much higher level of responsibility of the Council of Ministers towards the Parliamentary Assembly in terms of effective and transparent response to the legislative solutions that would be a positive sign in Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of creating an environment for the creation of new jobs. Only if we're talking about it now, can I say that it's positive and it doesn't need at all... positive in the last year that the budgets have been passed by the end of the fiscal year, is that labour laws have been passed. And we don't need to speak at all, we don't..., we have to bring it in if we want to be a compatible economy with any modern economic society, or competition with EU members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10612	Debate, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10613	Thank you. In addition to the observations I had previously made, which is related to the time frame of the amendments to the Law on Conflict of Interest, I would like to say that there is a large number of these planning activities, that a large number of these planning activities are not realised in accordance with the planned timetable, and therefore the Action Plan, as the Minister said, must be kept up-to-date and aligned with the recommendations we received, among other things, and in the Report from the previous agenda. So here, after reading the conclusion of my colleague Lovrinović, I would suggest that it may not go with the new action plan for implementing the priority recommendations, but that this existing Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda be updated and brought into line with the recommendations of the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that these recommendations should be included in this Action Plan with the bearers and deadlines for the implementation of those plans, so as not to have two action plans to follow. I think it would be better, and they're compatible to be one action plan, so the one we've been considering today, which, and must be kept up to date, and he should also accept those priority recommendations, namely 75, must consider all the recommendations, but should be given priority in this real time frame and recommendations from the 2015 Report. Therefore, if Col. Lovrinović agrees, this first conclusion can be changed in a way that reads – it is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to update and coordinate the Action Plan for the implementation of the Reform Agenda with recommendations from the 2015 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to include it according to priorities in the plan of activities with the bearers and deadlines for implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10614	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Information according to the House of Representatives conclusions, issue: 01-50-1-15-13/15, of 10/06/2015, adopted at the 13th session of the House of Representatives, applicant: BiH Communications Regulatory Agency At the 13th session held on 10.06.2015, the House of Representatives adopted a conclusion on the discussion of the Information Regulatory Agency for Communications on the Prices of Mobile Operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina asking Bosnia and Herzegovina to ensure, within 90 days, the harmonisation of the prices of mobile operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina's mobile services to operators' prices in the region and to notify the House of Representatives of Conclusions within 90 days. The BiH Communications Regulatory Agency on 25.12.2015 delivered the Information Procedure to the parliamentary procedure according to the conclusions of the 13th session of the House of Representatives. At the 23rd session, the House College appointed information to be discussed by the Committee on Transport and Communications. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the Information 11/01/2016. The commission has adopted its conclusions and is proposing their adoption to the House. And the conclusions are: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives finds that the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency has not realised the conclusions reached at the 13th session of the House of Representatives, and in connection with the initiative of MP Mladen Bosić, on the prices of mobile operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and asks the Agency to implement them as soon as possible within 120 days. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to bring a new policy to BiH's telecommunications sector as soon as possible. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Mladen Bosić, deputy. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10616	Dear colleagues. 76 As you remember, six months ago this House had a very comprehensive and good debate over the state and price of mobile operators' services in Bosnia and Herzegovina and reached three conclusions. In addition, within 90 days, the prices of mobile operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be harmonised with the prices of services in the region and Parliament will be informed within 90 days of what has been done in the field. And here, only in December, and based on the Urgenship of the College of the House of Representatives, we got an answer from the RAC from which it was clear that nothing was done. So, the decision of this House of Representatives has been ignored because mobile operators have not reduced the price of their services. It's not even a military activity to make it happen. And we need to see if we have any ingenuity and how to treat this condition. It's a matter of whether this House has any jurisdiction in this area or not. First of all, I must remind you that the Committee, what is called this body, the RAC Council, the RAC Council is elected by the House of Representatives, that is, the BiH Parliament. The RAC Council proposes the Director of RAC, meaning the Director of RAC appointed on the proposal of the RAK Council, which we have chosen here, the Council of Ministers. And there's a direct responsibility to the House of Representatives as bodies that need to control what's going on here. Here's the question of whether operators can, who's actually a priority here. It means whether RAC should work in the interest of the operator or should work in the interest of citizens who pay for services to these operators. I think there's been a chasing position here, that RAC has mostly protected the interests of operators who clearly have their own interest in charging as much as possible and making as much profit as possible. How do you regulate prices in mobile phones? Well, two ways. One is the market, meaning that more competitors are allowed to compete in this market struggle to reach some real cost and profit prices for themselves, such as in Croatia, as is happening in Serbia, as is happening in all European countries. Another way to regulate prices is to intervene the state. Who has the right to intervene in this sector? Well, that's RAC by definition, which gives approval to all the pricers and all the changes in the prices of mobile operators. Why do we have prices higher than anywhere in the environment and in Europe? Well, because we don't have a market, and the RAC isn't doing its job as a state regulator of prices. Why don't we have a market when we have three operators? Well, because it's the three national operators who have their clientele tied to what nations they came from, and because they're tied to territory. And these three operators act as if they're competitive in the whole territory, and when you share their participation in a market cookie, as if everything, as if it were a normal state, then you'd say there's no problem here, there's competition here. And she doesn't actually exist. Therefore, it is necessary for the state to protect citizens, i.e. consumers from irresponsible price hikes, or prices that are not realistic, i.e. from creating extra profits and filling the pockets of mobile operators. How are the operators acting? They have almost identical prices. So when you compare them, however, that fact is covered by different packages, for basic services they have almost identical prices. One of those three operators has a slightly higher price, but it does not worry him because he has his own national body which by definition is faithful to his operator. Therefore, it is necessary for the state to intervene in this case and to force operators to provide the actual cost of cost, i.e. the price harmonised with the countries, at least in the region. And to remind you that the price of the postpaid package in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what I am sure and what is easy to prove, is almost twice as high as in Serbia, whose state operator owns one of the operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So under the same conditions, the same owner has an almost double price here than it is in his parent market. Same case with the other two operators. And that is why we need to see if we have authority, whether we have the option, whether it is our responsibility to ask the Regulatory Agency to do its job and limit it, if operators will not do it on their own, to limit prices, or whether it is our duty to protect the interests of citizens and consumers, or whether it is our duty to think about the interests of operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I was at a meeting of the Commission. A high-quality debate has been held. Unfortunately, I can't blame the cancer because the RAC got a new V.D. The director's only ten days ago, so I can't, I have no one to blame here for this situation. But it is a quality debate that we have come to the promise of a new management, or management of the RAC, is that they will do everything to ensure that the conclusions and decisions of this House are implemented, or that they will force operators to comply with their prices with real market prices. There is another way to make a decision to let one of the world's operators into this market, so that they can lower the prices of these existing operators to their services and their prices. It's complicated, because there's obviously a need to privatise some of these operators. And so a much better variant would be to make a deal, if possible, and if measures cannot force operators to give real prices that are objective and acceptable. So no one has any intention of destroying any of the mobile operators. They have quite enough income, they have quite enough and huge profits, they will continue to drop these prices with such high incomes and large profits. My proposal was, informally, to ask the operator to agree to cut only their VAT prices. Because they don't show prices on websites with VAT included, but they say fine down in the price is not included VAT. And then on some other tables, they publish the full price. So I support the decisions, or proposals proposed by the Transport and Connection Commission, to this Parliament. Why is that 120 days? I think it's too much, 120 days to comply with those prices is too big, but we've got a reason that the prescribed procedures that require such a deadline to carry out an analysis, which the law provides, to get into that job. Here, to accept that, if there is nothing here, I think this Parliament would have to move towards replacing responsible people for this situation and ignoring the political will and decisions of the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10617	Senad Šepić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10618	I didn't initially plan to report on this agenda, but I was greatly encouraged by Mr. Bosić's discussion. I don't have any specific information on this subject, but I would ask him, therefore, to describe it to us, to provide us with this kind of conclusion in writing that he was now talking about and to see what is the possibility of us as the Parliamentary Assembly further including that we follow this process. So, I think that's especially what you're saying, if we're here to protect the interests of people or operators, we don't need to give anyone here any answers. But in order for us to play a more active role in the next period, I ask you to make a written conclusion that we will plead today and then try to put ourselves in these jobs another way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10619	Thank you. My colleague and I have written suggestions, as Bosić said, within the Committee, the Commission's conclusions are that. Let's go, Zaim Backović, debate. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10620	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Discussing this problem is very complicated. And with this part given by Mr. Bosić, I agree and accept and initiate to do as you are, Mr. Bosić. And now that, point, we're the only country, the only one anywhere in the world I'm going to climb, I don't know, so it's not the biggest skyscraper, it's a little smaller and it's the ones where the entities are the owners. When I say landlords are considered founders also in the ether because they take ether, air for their frequency, eventually one entity sold one system, and the other one did not. Still, the other entity runs formally with two emitters that need to function throughout the space and privatize for the entire space. You don't have that anywhere in the world. We're the only one in this state. Another problem is the privatisation laws that gave the possibility to start companies that are basically telecom operators, and we've completely lost control of the entire system. I don't think we're in control, we're in control, we're in control. So we gave cable operators the function of a telecom operator. Don't forget that all cable operators have the right to fixed telephony services. And that's how we made telecom operators weak, like we wanted to do it on purpose. Don't forget that they gave it to parts of this country, entities. And then the regulator, or those who deal with telecommunications in general by regulating frequencies, is just what we used to call the ones that used to learn and write ink, i.e. the pen,... You have a situation in which today comes the global unification of the telecoms of those I've been talking about now called cable. So Telemah bought Logosoft, now HS has joined here, according to Republika Srpska they practically bought everything, and they become a global telecom operator on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in fixed telephony. And that's why we now have a situation where those in which we should provide life are the BiH Radio Television, or public broadcasters, left without money. In one building, an example of the building where I live, there are currently four telecom operators, four fixed telephony operators, Telemah, Logosoft, regardless of what Telemah bought it is run like Logosoft, HS and BH Telecom. Those who are on BH Telecom regularly receive bills and pay, all of this is within the telecom operator, no matter what anyone thinks and says is not the subject, is very wrong. Find out how many fixed connections are lost from the area of governance of what the state has handed over to telecom operators, and you will see that we are now a country that goes downhill by this statistics, that is, going to a very underdeveloped country. Prices, prices are a special story. And in order to be able to regulate or bring to the level of prices, we have to clean the space, not make the anarchy in space. Those who provide cable services in terms of television, the package gives you both telephone and television, and this, and they are traders, and distributors, and telecom operators are, while telecommunications companies, or telecom operators, can't do that. Those belonging to the state are subject to the Public Procurement Act, one is not subject to it, it is in Republika Srpska. So, Eronet and BH telecom are subject to the Public Procurement Act, M-tel is not subject to it. I know Semih when the starters were built into the Simens had to be public procurement and for four years they couldn't, and disabled power plants, because he offered Samsung, which they couldn't even get into that power plant. I know these things well, I know it well. And we're actually suffocating them. We're choking their development, we're taking their clients and we're going to knock down the prices, and only one telecom operator doesn't go to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's an M-body. No Niko knows how much funds have been exported to Serbia as surplus values or profits. We don't have that kind of information. We have everything else. This will also happen to you with the privatisation of the energy sector, i.e. what should be the basis, the foundation in one country, energy, telecommunications, roads, or transport in every form, and we are losing it. Since you cited an example of neighbouring countries, Croatia after privatisation when it saw what it had done, formed again a state operator, its state operator, and in Serbia you and 79 know that M-tel is a state operator. We own it in private even though it owns a neighbouring state, because it owns a private state. We will probably be the only ones who will be addicted to what their citizens have created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10621	Debate, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10622	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, for years, we have had the situation that the Regulatory Agency for Communications, or its Council, is not involved in its work. It is an absolutely clear thing and that they are not in a function that enables him to protect the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, protects these interests of large companies, whether consciously or unconsciously, but it is a huge damage to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Currently in every household, every household in Bosnia and Herzegovina services for, the cheapest mobile phone services are paid individually more than the sum of all other utility services. It is amazing, individually more than any other municipal service – both electricity and water, and garbage, and all that, and a service to maintain the stairs and that. And we're not really looking at it. We have a situation, what respected counterpart Bosić said, that the prices of the same operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina are even two to four times higher, either financially or per minute in terms of united services. It's perfectly normal..., rudely high prices, unscrupulous, absolutely operators don't respect anything, personally I had an example of it, I couldn't believe that degree of insolence. The courts, everything else, are very effective in the execution and poverty of citizens of this country. What's the role of the Agency? Should we regulate this or rob the citizens? Whether by reducing prices we create an ambience in which we will have services at least as it has a whole region or we will... or informally illiterate,...all those who finance this unfortunately do not observe. How is it possible that we can't make an effective charge of 7.5 marks, and we can watch this and we can be blackmailed in the way with their bills, whether or not they're going to charge. That's amazing stuff. I agree with the information absolutely as it is presented, but I believe that the Commission has had to be much more effective in this regard, our competent Commission. It's inadmissible 120 days to leave for this. In any normal country, there would be an emergency alert for implementation and for these prices to be reduced. It's possible to do them anyway. If the RAC Council won't do it let's start... A law initiative to replace the RAC Council. What else do we need to do? Let's leave them in such a muddy position and keep working against the interest of the citizens. Is that a message that we have money to pay for phone services? Is this a message that in Bosnia and Herzegovina more than 8.5 million institutions pay for telephone services? Will the other one say that we have free phone services? So I think it takes serious about this problem that they are, it's possible that I agree with all the ways, only that I know that I no longer have emotions by any name of the telecom operator. I don't care what it is, but look what we're doing, these other cable operators that are going, they're going to follow this. The Balkan salary, above European prices, is more expensive than in the Netherlands for the same service package twice. Take an analysis, don't be illiterate, it's easy to get that story. I therefore believe that Parliament's House of Representatives must approach this issue very responsibly and that, within the time limit given, an initiative for the change of the RAC Council should be launched unless they do so. The RAC Council can make 80 decisions to introduce new operators, we have no problem. Who are we protecting? Are we the exponents of the Grain chosen here or lobbyists of different telecom operators? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10623	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10624	It's my colleague's apology. Just so we don't knowingly avoid one piece of information. What's done is given priority to one operator and the others are trampled. Within the network of M-tele, M-tel publicly gives ads on our broadcasters in which it says – there is no ruming with neighbouring countries, while the other two operators can't do it. The cancer isn't responding. At no time did the RAC react when Eronet or BH telecoms were involved. How is it possible that, within one country, one operator who is that state, no matter who owns it, can have cross-border traffic without, and the other two with? How is that possible? That's impossible. It's possible in a country like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10625	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10626	Dear colleague Backović, let me tell you, you're wrong. I wish that were true. Unfortunately, this is the same trick in which he says it is possible to achieve at the same cost of telecom operator services in the neighbouring country in communication in that sense, but unfortunately for the priside. Well, come on, don't be, it's just one manipulation that's being served, it's, there's no story at all, I have to say, right now, nothing, if anyone's privileged should bring him into the same position as anyone, that goes for Eronet and BH Telecom.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10627	Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10628	I said, "I'm sorry, Mr. Prodanović, but I'm not on those commercials or I'm talking, nor are those 50 times a day on RTS, Federal, State, Local, Liberation, or you don't have romings in your system, so the countries are numbered." _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] I don't know, postpaid, not postpaid, prepaid and underspeed, but that's the ad, and somebody's got to check it out. Then the citizens are deceived and lied and nothing else. That, there's someone, that's why it's called Regulatory.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10630	Dušanka Majkić, the debate. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10631	Here's a few words I'd like to say. I think that you should really at first allow the representatives of the Regulatory Agency to say a few words and introduce us on the right path, because here we are, talking everything about both the topic and the outside topic. What I'd like to say is, first let's see what cancer is? It's a regulator, an independent institution. Do we know, on this side, whether we have the right from Parliament to impose anything on the Regulatory Agency whose job is to create, promote rules in the telecommunications sector, licensee operators in the broadcasting sector? What we're talking about should be their regular assignment. Everything that hasn't been done, so you know we've been trying, for 12 years we've tried to replace the director, so we haven't been able to get rid of the director of the Agency. Let's not forget that now. Why aren't they working? That's the question they need to say why they don't plan it. And finally, why did it all come down to the question of mobile, telecommunications operators now provide a spectrum of services. What's our status when it comes to the Internet, cable TV? So, telecom operators also provide cable TV services, a whole range of services. Is that competitive for us? Are we the most expensive here? And if that's all true, what does the Competition Council do to us? Is that what he needs to deal with? So these are all the questions we should be dealing with here, I'm just afraid we shouldn't get into the jurisdiction of those we shouldn't touch. We know by now we've never had to treat the regulator too commandingly. And lastly, who next to the RAC is responsible for the situation in the sector? Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers is the one who can tell RAK this or that. So let's not forget it, that's the thing. So, I could never now and in no way say we all commit ourselves, we'll all say that we will choose to be the lowest price in favour of our citizens, but whether or not our decision, our conclusion can be fulfilled by the RAC Council, that's the question. Don't make any conclusions that the Regulatory Agency isn't capable of fulfilling. Not to mention how we formed this Agency, that it was the decision of the High Representative, that we had a chaotic state and that this institution never lived the way we expected it to. So don't ask her for impossible things now. The key question is what can the Agency do on this plan, and it would be good if one of them spoke to this House and expressed his position on the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10632	Momčilo Novaković, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10633	Thank you. Dear colleagues. I will speak more as chairman of the Commission who dealt with this issue and try to explain in fact why we have reached such conclusions as we have proposed to the House of Representatives to make. First, to remind you that we, meaning on June 10th, have reached these three conclusions and that the key, of those three conclusions, is Conclusion 2 which says the House of Representatives is asking the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency to ensure, within 90 days, that, in accordance with the legal rules, the harmonisation of mobile operators' prices in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the prices of operators in the region. At the time, at which the representatives of the regulators were present, there were no objections to this conclusion, to the Commission. There were no objections here at the House of Representatives, and we thought it was a correct time limit for this job to end. After 6 months and, as far as I am aware, the College's emergency to deliver this Report has been delivered a report which 82 was on the Commission and the Commission found that in its first conclusion that the Regulatory Agency failed to implement the conclusions adopted on 10 June, or 13th session of the House of Representatives. In the interview with the representatives of the regulators at that session, we have been informed that it is not possible to implement this harmonisation in a shorter time, meaning the price, because of the analysis that needs to be done in accordance with the rules, means in accordance with the procedures that are common and prescribed by the European Commission. We then drew from this the second part of the conclusion that this job should be done as soon as possible and no later than 120 days. We could've written it here for 30 days, but we wouldn't have gotten a score in 30 days, so we'd be doing it again, which is why RAC didn't do his job. We asked, and today we can ask, why these four months have not been used immediately, when we reached conclusions on 10.06. Of course, it could have been used and of course we have the responsibility or irresponsibility of the Regulatory Agency and if you want the Governing Board of the Council that did not do this job in accordance with the conclusions of the House of Representatives. But we had on the Commission a position where we are, or to give them 120 days to complete it or to give them a shorter deadline and to know in advance that they would not finish the job. We've estimated that we should give some real deadlines. So we asked people what they needed to realize everything here in the Information. They told us, among other things, that they needed a new strategy, i.e. a new sectoral policy of telecommunications. And we have made according to this second one, we have actually proposed a second conclusion to the House of Representatives asking the Council of Ministers to adopt this new sectoral policy in order to create assumptions that they are doing their job in a quality way. There were, of course, other proposals on the Commission. I must point out that one of the proposals, which we were seriously dealing with, was to ask the House of Representatives to resolve the existing Board of Regulatory Agency, given that he did not do his job. After the debate, we estimated that at this point we should not go with it, regardless of what is clearly defined by the law that only Parliament can do it, because at this point, it would be a question of whether we would drag this deal away, in fact, extend it, and we would not finish what we thought, and that is the solution of the members of the Council, or not to gain efficiency in solving these matters. That's why that conclusion didn't go as a suggestion. We agreed to have a conversation, that the Commission's College should hold a discussion with the Board of Regulators and that, after that discussion, it would mean to the College to inform the Commission and then we would assess whether there was a need to inform the House of Representatives about the results of the discussion. This is what the Commission and the work of the Commission themselves are about. I'm not going to go into the report's lab because that's what we did at the 13th session when we realized that we have the highest prices in the region, and that they are several times higher, and that, after all, has resulted in conclusions and this session today. Of course, despite the fact that one regulator owns one regulator outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, the other two within Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Communications Regulatory Agency has absolutely the same, means absolutely the same, must have the same relationship to one and to the other, and to the third regulator, and that they are equally obliged to act on the decisions of the regulator and in no way can that fact diminish or reduce the possibilities of the regulator to resolve this issue. The Commission has proposed these two conclusions, Mr Bosić supported, as a proponent of this initiative, these conclusions and I propose that the House of Representatives also adopt these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10634	Debate, Staša Košarac. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10635	Thank you, Chairman. Here in this room are the people elected by the people, i.e. the citizens, and it is clear that there is a necessary obligation that, on the basis of the interests of the citizens, Parliament also refers to these issues, of course in accordance with all constitutional competences. What the BiH Parliament, i.e. the House of Representatives is looking for these days and these months, is for the RAC to carry out an analysis and submit a proposal for a new solution in view of the tariffs of these mobile operators. And that's the only thing Parliament's asking for right now. And I think it's legitimate to ask the RAC to run an analysis and come out with a new proposal. What is not good is that the conclusions of the House of Representatives are not implemented. In addition, it is not good that this formulation, in which we participated in the Commission itself, also humiliates Parliament by realizing that one of the agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not implemented the conclusion of the House of Representatives. And we're going round and round. We've had different kinds of problems with RAC in this country, and today we have. He acts very often and as an alienated center of power. We had a situation that this Parliament, the institutions of this country, could not change the governance structure of the RAC for years. And it went the way it did because there were different forms and political needs and some other interventions on that matter. That's what we're all aware of. Whether someone had someone's protection or not, etc. Today we have a situation that the Transport Commission has come up with a clearly defined view in line with the information it has received from the RAC representatives, which is that this activity takes extra time. And that time is 120 days. What if, I want to ask today, what if a new solution is not offered within 120 days? Then what will be the consequences? Will we again conclude that the conclusions of the House of Representatives have not been respected and implemented? It is unquestionable that they need analysis and it is unquestionable that they need new solutions. It is the full support of all of us that we need new solutions when it comes to price. And of course there are legal procedures as to how this is determined, who is in charge, who verifies it, etc., etc. I just want to open the question today, what if it's not implemented within 120 days? Does anyone else want me to agree to the situation by imposing a story about the change of the RAK savjet? According to the information we received, the RAC Council is not particularly involved in this process. If we want to complicate, you have opposition support. But don't make it any more complicated if we want to solve one question. The other problem I want to talk about is, but I have no one to ask, and it's a monologue again. ...there are no representatives in this room, in this case the Ministry of Transport and Communications. There are no representatives, I know that we have replaced the minister, but who we are going to ask today about Conclusion No. 2, Mr. Novaković, where I was killed that neither you nor I nor any of us at the time when we discussed Conclusion No. 2 were informed about whether all the competent institutions were involved in the development of this strategic policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina telecommunications. I've been informed since yesterday that they haven't. Who are we going to ask today? We need to make a statement about that conclusion. And I think, given that there is a correct relationship in the work of the Commission itself, I think it would be good to insist that the representatives, until the election of the competent minister, be representatives of the ministry at the session so that we can ask. I have information that entity ministries are not involved in Bosnia and Herzegovina's sectoral telecommunications policy, except that they will be invited when it comes to public debate. I think there's enough, that it's a serious problem, I think you should give the people of the RAC a chance that within what time it's acceptable for them to do so, but I just want to... – what if within 120 days it's not done? Thank you. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10636	Thank you. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Now he wants to talk to us V.D. Director-General Mr. Kovač, Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10637	Good afternoon. Here is everything to say hello to you and to try to give some of the answers that are addressed to us today in this House. The fact is that the conclusions of this House of RAK did not respect, and the fact is that what we want to do in some future period is that, first of all, in accordance with the law, with the views, the conclusions of this House, with the conclusions and views of the Council of Ministers, we want to run a policy in the areas concerned by the RAC, so that we can provide everything that has not been provided so far. Certainly a lot of work needs to be done, a long time, as you mentioned was not adequate, I don't think from the point of view of the profession adequate, but a long time we had v.d. The director at the head of this agency, and that must have brought her work together. What the Agency wants to do at this point is, first of all, it has a partner in this House, a partner in the Council of Ministers, and we work together to meet those basic settings of the Communication Act, which is to be in the service of every resident in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here, we will have the opportunity to keep you regularly informed of all this and all that we do as soon as possible, first of all we will report to the Commission, this House and the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10638	I thank you for your help. Director, Mr. Kovač. At this point, we're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Combating Corruption – Proposer: Joint College of both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly The joint college of both homes was held at the 11th session, held on 29.12.2015, pursuant to Article 17. The law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption and the established obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, laid down that proposal for a conclusion. It is proposed that members of the Interim Joint Committee be appointed representatives – Mirsad Đonlagić, Predrag Kožul and Borislav Bojić, and representatives – Ljilja Zovko, Darko Babalj and Halid Genjac. I'm opening a debate. 85 Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10640	There are no representatives of the opposition in the proposal six names for this Commission. I suggest, therefore, given the specificity, whether or not the subject of three representatives being from the opposition and three from the position. And that is practice, not only in the region, but also in the EU. Therefore, given the Commission's needs to deal with, absolutely, the proposal is that three members be from the opposition and three from the position, and now all six are from the governing structure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10641	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10642	The DF club joins and welcomes the proposal of counterpart Bećirović. takoċe, on several occasions, we had meetings, and this was chaired by the Joint Commission on Human Rights very well knows my colleague Lazar Prodanović, where almost every time they mentioned that they needed both members and members of the opposition to participate in the work of parliamentary bodies. So unless this proposal is supported by three MPs or opposition MPs, we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10643	Thank you. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll come forward when it's time. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Asylum Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The Asylum Act was adopted at the 21st session of the House of Representatives, held on 10.12.205, and at the 13th session of the House of People, held on 30.12.2015. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and three members from the House of Representatives should be appointed to the Joint Committee for the Same Text. The home of the people has already appointed its members, the envoys: Halid Genjac, Ljilja Zovko and Dark Babalj. The proposal is for the Joint Committee to be called representatives – Damir Arnaut, Nikola Lovrinović and Momčilo Novaković. I'm opening a debate. Zaim Backović, debate. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10645	Very short. Is it possible, at all, that there is no one else in this House but those who belong to the governing structure? Come on, count us down, so gather us together as many bodies as we are the commission, committees, joint... like this, like that. What's this about? We're all equal here. How is it possible for someone to be in ten, someone in one, how is that possible? Possibly. Then we really are Parliament's terribly great democratic capacity. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-01-12-0.u10646	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We've exhausted today's agenda. Now I'm giving 10 minutes off and we're going back to the vote on the agenda. May I have your attention, we're going to vote. Let's go to point one. – The adoption of the minutes of the 22nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the record. Of the 37 present – for 35, no objection, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH 22 for, no objection, 2 abstentions, RS 13 for, nothing against, a niche of abstentions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
