ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1447	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the EU's BiH Delegation and Office for the Audit of BiH institutions. The session is attended by 13 delegates – 4 from Bosniak, 4 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. Delegate Fahrudin Radončić and delegate Ljilja Zovko are not able to attend the session for justified reasons. As indicated in the invitation to the session, and in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in writing. I remind you, along with the invitation to the 15th session of the House of Nations, he was also sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegation Dragutin Rodić to the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, and delegate Mario Karamatić to BiH Security Minister Dragan Mektić submitted an announcement to ask delegate questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and that member of the BiH Council of Ministers addressed the issue. I would like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to the delegate Dragutin Rodić. Is he satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1448	Yeah. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1449	Thank you. I give my word to delegate Mario Karamatić. Are you satisfied with your answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1450	I didn't get an answer from last time,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1451	I'm sorry, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1452	So I'm not satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1453	I apologize a little bit, here is the problem with this text, I thought it was about the previously asked questions, which is also by procedure possible orally, so we have to go back to Mr Dragutin Rodić to ask the question first, because here is not, uh, the answer to the past question, but the possibility of asking a new question. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1454	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I ask the following delegate question. The fact is that at a meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH on 26 January 2016, a decision was taken on the system of co-ordination of the European integration process in Bosnia and Herzegovina and was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 8, since 09.02.2016. Article 1 of that Decision defines institutional and operational systems and ways of coordinating institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to carry out activities related to the integration process in Bosnia and Herzegovina into the EU by joint bodies under the coordination system and their composition, competence and mutual relations. Given that the institutions of Republika Srpska disagree with the adopted Decision, the question is that it is possible to continue to implement the coordination system as one of the most important conditions for implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and further activities concerning the negotiation of 35 EU chapters and the harmonisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation with the EU's legal assets. The question is: How does the Council of Ministers of BiH plan to overcome the apparent problem of the adopted decision, because it is clear that without the consent of all the institutions provided for in Article 1 of this Decision it is inconclusive, and this further implies a visible problem regarding the implementation of the commitments undertaken? I think it is necessary to take all the activities in order to reach an acceptable solution and allow everyone to do their job under the Constitution, the law and the commitments undertaken in accordance with the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement, all of which is a necessary consensus in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to be enforceable. And just the addition, I've been asking two three questions on the same subject, last time in October of this year, where I received assurances from the Prime Minister's Presidency that the agreement on the Coordination Mechanism is going in the right direction, that there is a high probability that it will be fully agreed and that there will be no problems. As we can see, it didn't happen. Here I ask what are the next moves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1455	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. By the end of the issue, Mr. Zvizdić has not yet entered the hall, has been notified regularly and we have received confirmation of his participation. Now, get in right now. I'm going to have to ask Mr. Zvizdić to come immediately for a pay phone, since the question has already been said, and it is a matter that you have been informed in due time that they will be set up, so I assume the prepared answer to announce. It's a question of a respected colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1456	Dear Chairman, I welcome you all to the esteemed delegates. I thank the honourable representative on the issue of the Mechanism of Coordination and I will answer it and explain... and explain a little gene of the complete subject. So, as you know, Bosnia and Herzegovina was obliged to establish a coordination mechanism. Since 2011, he has been mentioned in all reports on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress as one of the key obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina had during the previous period. Since the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, therefore on 1 June 2015, Bosnia and Herzegovina's coordination mechanism has been required, i.e. today, to establish common bodies with the EU to monitor the Stabilisation and Association Agreement itself. With regard to such needs and such requirements, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted a decision on the establishment of a co-ordination mechanism in Bosnia and Herzegovina team in order to be completed as soon as possible and to form bodies and to monitor the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and meet other important obligations ahead of us on the path of European integration. But, of course, the Government of Republika Srpska, unlike other levels of government, I am talking about the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation, did not deliver their representatives as members of the Co-ordination Mechanism team, but in fact came a letter from the Ministry of Economic and Regional Relations of Republika Srpska, which clearly says that they do not want to deliver representatives of Republika Srpska to the Co-ordination Mechanism team, calling on the Coordination Mechanism which remains unknown in terms of formally adopted document or document published in any official messenger at any level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the text of the Coordination Mechanism was called for in 2013, I repeat, the text was not officially adopted either by the Council of Ministers or published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", not adopted by the Federation Government, nor published in the "The Official Messenger of the Federation" and, as far as I know, has not been published in "The Official Messenger of Republika Srpska". So despite this, here's to say, at the very least, an illogical position regarding our request to form a joint team, we, however, have personally and all the other prime ministers, held a meeting in Banja Luka on July 29, 2015 with our intention to really reach a consensus on such an important document and we agreed that the text of the Coordination Mechanism, which was made in 2013, was one quality basis that could be the final text of the Coordination Mechanism, but under certain very precise conditions, and that is the 4 alignment with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, of course, on the principles adopted in the maintenance of the first session of the Stabilisation and Association Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1457	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1458	between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EU and the principles supported by the BiH Presidency, all three members of the Presidency, are concerned with strict respect for the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the constitutions of the defined powers of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the effectiveness of the Coordination Mechanism in the number of bodies and methods of decision-making and full compliance with the provisions of the SAA, i.e. with the decisions of the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Stabilisation and Association Committee as joint bodies between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EU. For many months, almost daily, very hard, very consistent, very persistent and with a great desire to reach a consensus on the Coordination Mechanism worked the Council of Ministers to draft this document. Finally, within the Council of Ministers, on the basis of the principle that I have just said, we have achieved a series of consensus, an agreement, and as you know, the Coordination Mechanism was adopted at a Council of Ministers meeting, and then on February 3rd, by the official letter of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers delivered to the entity's governments to show them with our request to do so as soon as possible, as 15 February was scheduled to hand over our application for EU membership. Unfortunately, by this time we didn't get an official memo in which it would be decadent,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1459	Time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1460	I end in a minute or a half, in which it would be decidently stated, the reasons why this Mechanism is unacceptable. I remain on behalf of the Council of Ministers, saying that this text fully respects the constitutional jurisdiction of any level of government that has original or shared competence in any area that will be treated on the path of European integration or within the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at no time or at any point in time, the constitutional jurisdiction of any level, any level of government has been derivated.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1461	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1462	So, we have an obligation, I repeat, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as an international commitment, and I sincerely hope, and in all my media performances I have always pointed out, that in the Council of Ministers we are open, fully open and ready to discuss possible proposals, suggestions, and even objections to this text of the Coordination Mechanism which would make it more effective or efficient, but of course must remain in force these principles, therefore the principles of constitutional competences, the principles of adaptation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as an international document and the international commitment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, must remain fundamental principles on which the Coordination Mechanism will be based. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1463	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1464	We in the Council of Ministers have not yet received an official response, an official memo on official possible corrections. I continue to say that we remain fully open to discussion and I am quite certain that if we correctly understand these principles, I am talking about constitutional competences, that very quickly we can come to a document that can be accepted, both in the same text and in the same form adopted at the levels of all governments. I remind you, on February 12th, the Federation government adopted the Coordination Mechanism, it has already begun to appoint representatives into bodies, all cantons have accepted the Council of Ministers, and at this point we only expect confirmation from the Republika Srpska government, to start fulfilling our international obligation and to be able to form, of course, bodies, common bodies with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1465	Mr. Chairman, therefore, thank you very much and for an exhaustive explanation, and I really must warn you, since this is already a few times such a situation, I am sure that you have a lot of obligations, but that your services can use this format for two minutes in order to transmit the necessary information, we are constantly in the situation that, now, you have made four times the time. So we have time, but we have a Rules of Procedure, so this will certainly be the point of the agenda under regular number 8, when we are going to talk about the Action Plan and these aspects, and we will be able to talk about it longer, so that I also ask Mr Rodić that the fact that Mr, Chairman of the Council of Ministers has gone beyond the timeframe, therefore, takes it as extraordinary and that all of you, of course, as much as possible, stick to this time frame that we are given at our disposal to make sure that you are satisfied with the answer. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1466	Oh, I'll take it very briefly. I'm happy with the answer, especially the last part of the answer that it's open further to the deal, but I'm asking for all of this to be delivered to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1467	I understand. I give my word to the delegate, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the BiH Security Minister, the respected Minister Mektić, and I do not know what to call him, the assassination or incident that took place in the Salakovac tunnel, when before the commander of General Jeleca's Armed Forces, an employee of the Intelligence and Security Agency threw an explosive device. I've been thinking a little bit about it and I've come to the conclusion, Intelligence-6 Security Agency, so it's the Bosnian-Herzegovian Džejms Bond, the man standing on the Homeland's defender in intelligence and counterintelligence, removing all possible threats from enemy states and terrorists, and that man means he's been bought by some intelligence agency. Unless that's how this Bosnian-Herzegovina Džejms Bond is a non-ordinary fool who throws explosives at the tunnels in front of anyone who comes across. I personally can't believe this is about coincidence. What interests me, and I believe I'm interested in the whole Bosnian Herzegovina public, is Mr. Bond still in the service? If I'm the only one who can't be satisfied with it because suspension means he's still getting paid, I don't think people like that have anything to do with the Intelligence Security Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1469	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has been given by the Honorable Minister, Mr. Mektić. Here you go, Mr. Mektić. So, two minutes, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1470	Thank you, Your Honor. Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, respected guests. Here, I'll give the information exactly what's going on with this event since 20.11.2015, when a Salakovac in the car tunnel of Opel Corsa was thrown away by a pyrotechnic device, so to speak. a cannon strike, which at the time triggered and caused certain damages on August and tracks, and at that moment a vehicle containing the commander or, that is, the commander of the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH, General Ante Jeleč, moved behind them. Following the event, the SiPA and the state prosecutor, the BiH State Prosecutor's Office's Office of State and the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of the Herzegova-Neretva Canton, came out on the spot and made an insight into and collected an additional number of information and data and was assessed by prosecutors not to be involved in the terrorist attack. So that's the prosecution's conclusion, and the case has been taken over by the prosecutor of the Herzegova-Neretva canton and the criminal case against the person Zlatko Humo is being brought before the County Prosecutor's Office in Mostar. At the same time, this Officer of the Intelligence and Security Agency has, in accordance with the law, been suspended and the law is so prescribed that the suspension is pending until the end of the criminal proceedings, after which a definitive disciplinary measure will be taken. Is it logical, isn't it logical, and to me it doesn't make sense, he's been getting paid all the time, but the law so regulated, prescribed and waiting for the Prosecutor's Office in Mostar, or the Mostar Court, to complete this case after which a final disciplinary measure will be taken against this member of the Intelligence and Security Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1471	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I give my colleague, Mario Karamatić, to say if he is satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1472	Here, Mr. Chairman, you won't believe me, I'm happy with the answer, I'm not happy with what's going on with the intelligence agency employee. However, here I have to mention one thing, I asked the Honorable Foreign and 7 Trade Relations Minister at the last session – what companies did this to malversion on the occasion of meat exports? I didn't get the written answer until today, and I was obliged to get it, so by all the rules and regulations, so here, this is also how I appeal to the Honorable Foreign Trade Minister to send that answer with company names, otherwise I can suspect that he's doing it on purpose, meaning he's hiding someone, and I believe that's not the case, that it's too busy or anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1473	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić, you've used your minute. I have consulted with my colleagues here, and we are giving an emergency on your question to the Ministry of State, which will also be served in writing and sent to you tomorrow. We don't have any further applications, so let's now go to work on the agenda proposal. For the 15th session, I propose the following, amended: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of delegate Mario Karamatić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-669/16, of 24.02.2016; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1/15, since 27.02.2015; 4. Proposal for a strike law for BiH institutions (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-24/15, from 13.11.2015 and 10.12.2015; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-125/15, of 10.12.2015; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-38/15, from 30.12.2015 and 28.01.2016; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-26/15, of 17.12. 2015 and 28.01.2016; 8. Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers Reform Agenda, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-50-11-1383/15, of 28.10.2015; 9. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Procurement of personal documents – case study", material of the BiH institutions' audit office, issue: 02/4-16-1105/16, since 06.01.2016; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Note of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the adoption of technical co-operation projects for the period 2008-2012. year, number: 01,02-05-2-311/16, since 26.01.2016; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation, No: 01,02-02-2-367/16, of 29/01/2016; 8 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on loan (Project of Regional Water Blue Water) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2383/16, since 01.02.2016; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank, LD 1836 (2014) – credit for the social programme of housing in BiH, Republika Srpska, which is implemented by the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank, issue: 01.02-05-2-542/16, since 15.02.2016. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions to the agenda, any suggestions? There are no reports. Thank you. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of the Peoples, so it's not voted on. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's what's foreseen in the Rules of Procedure if the law is so simple that it's possible to bring it in by emergency procedure, here's what I'm going to try to explain very briefly what's going on here. Namely, when the Animal Welfare Act was passed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law was prescribed from the countries of the environment, specifically from the Republic of Croatia, and then it was prescribed that a point that votes precisely – that in 01.01.2018, according to this Act currently in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is prohibited to hold furs. So it's forbidden to grow animals that are grown for fur. Meanwhile, all the countries of the environment have changed these controversial articles of the Law, and we have now come into a position, meaning that people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are growing chinchillas, kunas and nercs since 01.01.2018 will not be able to do so because it will be against the law. That's, we all remember that euphoria when it started with chinchillas, there's no one who didn't actually grow them, but then it fell quickly because the price of fur fell on the world market and most of those plants went out. Now I'm going to tell you an amazing piece of information, we often read that Bosnia and Herzegovina,...the last or the last, mostly in top 10 countries by anything, means whatever is analyzed by something international of 170 we are 130 places the best that can be, believe it or not the furs of Bosnia and Herzegovina are among the most quality furs and on the European fur market in Denmark, the rule of law... So, for them, prices are specifically formed for the reasons that those breeders, who remained both kuna and nick and chinchillas, have in the meantime so much raised the production level and quality of these furs that they are now among the best quality in the world. I've been communicating with a part of the grower, a lot of them are planning to expand their capacities, a lot of people are interested in getting into that production, because today it's very cost-effective. And what is even more important is that in the production of fur animals, i.e. The furry, so it's a 100% domestic Bosnian Herzegovina product. These animals are being harvested here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are not imported from where, their skin is shouting and everything goes 100% for export. I ask you to declare this Act by emergency procedure and to enable after 01.01.2018, except that the skin of people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being yelled, so that you can yell at animals as well. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1480	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. So, you heard 100% of the domestic animals. There are no reports to discuss the procedure. We're moving on to a plea. So we're voting on whether we're in favour of an emergency procedure. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 5 were in favour, 8 were against. From Federation 5 to, 3 against, abstentions, there is no one from Republika Srpska for, against 5, abstentions. There's no general, no entity majority, so I'm guessing we've pleaded against an emergency procedure. Now we're moving on to a statement on the shortened procedure. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 5 delegates against 8 delegates who were not detained. From Federation 5 to, 3 against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska none by, 5 against, no one abstention. There is neither a general nor an entity majority, so I realize that there is no possibility of working under a reduced procedure, which means that this law will be considered by regular procedure. We're going to work at number three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You received a report from the Commission on finance and the budget of the People's House and the Commission found that no amendments had been tabled, and adopted the draft law and proposed that it be adopted to the House. I give my word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, if she wishes. Like in the report. Thank you. I now give the word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1482	Nice to meet you. And since there is no club president, I am the vice president of the club, on behalf of the Croatian Club, we will repeat the story from last time. So we asked earlier, I don't know, the Finance Commission, for the Ministry of Finance to deliver us a complete, comprehensive, or Council of Ministers, comprehensive law that would make changes at individual points. We didn't get it in time, and that was why this Law was included last time in the first reading. Meanwhile 11 that comprehensive law has come, he's going into procedure. And for this same reason, the Croatian Club has no intention of pleading today for partial parts, but we will wait for a comprehensive law, which was our story, and thus put an end to these changes in the partial, to avoid the story of populist measures, and we believe that, here we will not vote for. We will see what this, already released in the procedure, has been amended by the complete Law on Salaries and Compensations of Officials in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1483	I thank my colleagues, Džambas. There are no other applications for participation in the debate, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the draft law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions in a second reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 9 delegates were in favour, against 3 delegates, but one delegate was abstained. From Federation 4 for, against 3, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Law on Amendments to the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions has been adopted. We're going to work at point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on strike of employees in BiH institutions (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission has adopted the text of the draft law with a total of three amendments which have become an integral part of the text of the bill and propose its adoption to the House. The Commission also adopted and proposed to the House the adoption of the following conclusion: – The Constitutional Commission proposes to the House to oblige the Department for the Construction and Announcing of Legal Acts to correct grammatical and spelling errors in Article 23 to which Amendment III was tabled. At the 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, the House of Representatives adopted a draft law on strike of employees in BiH institutions in a second reading with three amendments. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1485	I thank the chairman. Only in terms of clarification of the conclusion and adoption of one amendment should the plural be transformed into one, in this article spoken of. And that is why we have given the legislative sector a mandate to make adjustments. And this is for record only, and the rest as in the report. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1486	Mr Genjac, with both the record and the record, I must ask you as a proponent of such a conclusion – so in which member of the Rules of Procedure we find a foothold to give someone the right to subsequently correct the text that we adopt? So, is this in line with some member of the Rules of Procedure? Because when we plead, we plead on the proposed text, whether it is in the plural, the majority or anything else, the Commission has had the opportunity to respond to this question by amendment. If you think that we agree that we have a vague situation, we can conclude, which, as the chairman of the Commission, you would possibly suggest, which is in this case, we can resolve this issue, and we can leave the whole situation for the next time so that this can still be done without technicality so that the public in us recognize the people who are doing this alloy artis, so to speak, in the part where it's a nomotechnics question. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1487	Thank you. We had consultations on the Constitutional Legal Commission in which there was a very specific situation and we had no business opportunities to carry out interventions in order to ensure the same text with what was adopted in the House of Representatives and to do so on the Constitutional Legal Commission. No, there is no business provision that would make this kind of intervention, but there is no ban, but there is no obstacle to doing so. And as an opportunity to get out of this situation, we can leave for the next session and prepare for the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1488	I ask the members of the College do they agree that this point continues at the next point? They're lying. So now I'm asking you to make it clear that this item of the agenda continues at the next session, and to stop at this stage where it is now, with the possibility of giving the right to the Constitutional Commission to modify the text of this Law. Here's what I'm opening up right now is the debate on this proposal that I made. Is anyone applying for a hearing on the proposal of this conclusion? He's not reporting. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to make a statement on the conclusion I made. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present - 12 delegates were for, against no one, he was abstentioned by 1 delegate. From Federation 8 to no one, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska 4 for, against no one, one abstention. There's a general and entity majority, so I figure we've adopted the conclusion. We're going to work at point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Ministry Act and other bodies (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission has adopted the text of the bill and proposes its adoption to the House. At its 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration, a second reading law. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration in the second reading. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present - 9 delegates were for, against three delegates, one delegate was abstained. From Federation 7 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 2 for, versus 3, abstentioned no one. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration was adopted in a second reading in the same text as in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1491	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers. 14 At the session of the Constitutional Commission, four amendments were discussed, and we also received arguments from the legislator of the Law, as it considers... these amendments. We, i.e. I still think it is acceptable, first of all, to talk about amandman I, where it is spoken, or in the current text, was that in the Law on Associations and Foundations, when applying for registration, there must be all three letters, two letters, or that there must be both the second and third letters, whether or not. However, in the text of the new Law, or at least to quote cleanly, in Article 7(3), where it was stated that the name of the association or foundation in general in one of the three now official languages which are in use in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a Latin or Cyrillic letter, for which the party has committed itself. The explanation we got here, that it's a cost for a party to write in two, three languages and two letters, that it shouldn't be done. I don't think we really need to slave whether it's a cost or not, but it's extremely important to respect all three letters, whether the party wants it or not. And that is why I continue to believe that this amandman makes sense and it will certainly not endanger anyone's interest within Bosnia and Herzegovina and any people, that if it stands to be still in three official languages and in a Cyrillic and Latin letter. I don't see what would be controversial in the first place. Amendment II, which refers to the establishment of a website with data from the Ministry's electronic register in the jurisdiction of the entity and the Government of Republika Srpska, i.e. in the draft law, as we interpret these provisions, means that the website will be mandatory for all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of who registered associations at the level, i.e. entities and cantons. We think that this question would be questioned by the transfer of jurisdiction, because it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of entities and canton, and that the agreement provided for... in the Law can regulate whether entities and cantons really want this issue to be published in a unique manner. And I also think there's no reason not to really accept this amendment. When it comes to amandman III, what is particularly controversial to me, is when it comes to the supervision of the legality of the work of the association or of the foundation, where it is interpreted by the promoters that it is only the supervision of the legality of the work of the association or the foundation in relation to this Act and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, this is not so, given that it is not quite clear, but from the text of the Law, it is that supervision of the legality of work and associations can be carried out by the competent authorities of inspection at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities and in cantons of which they register in their jurisdiction. Amendment IV is practically related to Amendment II, and if amandman ii were to be accepted, then of course it would be amandman iv.e. So, I'm still staying with these amendments and I'm asking the House to come forward about the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1492	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Further, applications for participation in the debate. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Now we're moving on to a plea. First we declare the amandman and delegate Sredoje Nović. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 5 delegates were for, against 8 delegates, there was no one abstention. No one from the Federation for, 8 against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska 5 for, versus no one, abstentioned anyone. 15 There is no general majority, so I find that Amendment I, the delegate of Sredoja Nović, has not been adopted. We move to a vote on amandman ii, delegate Sredoje Nović. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 5 were in favour, against 8. From the Federation v. 8, from Republika Srpska 5 for. There is no general majority, so I find that Amendment II, delegate Sredoje Nović, has not been adopted. We are now voting on amandman III, delegate Sredoje Novć. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, there were 5 delegates, 7 delegates against, and 1 delegate was retained. From Federation 7 v, 1 abstention, from the Republic of Slovenia 5 for. There is no general majority, so I find that Amendment III, delegate Sredoje Nović, has not been adopted. Now we move on to the Declaration on amandman iv.e. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 5 were for, against the 8, there were no abstentions. From Federation 8 v, Republika Srpska 5 for. There is no general majority, so I find that Amendment IV, delegate Sredoje Nović, has not been adopted. We are now moving on to a statement on the Amendment Law proposal and amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH in the second reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 8 delegates were against 4, abstention 1. From Federation 8 for, against no one, abstentioned no one, from Republika Srpska for, against 4, abstention 1. There's a general majority but there's no entity, so we're consulting in the College. Is there any agreement that we won't be in favor of this law? There isn't, or let's be you. There's nothing for that either. Okay. Thank you. We're moving on to a statement in the second round. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 8 were for, against 5, there were no abstentions. From Federation 8 for, against no one, abstentioned no one from Republika Srpska for, against 5, abstentions. There is a general majority but there is no entity, so I realize that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, in the second reading, has not been adopted. We're going to work at point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The legislative sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly found that the draft law did not fully comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Therefore, at the 18th session held on 30.12.2015, in accordance with Rule 95(6) of the Rules of Procedure, the College of the Peoples sent a letter to the Proposer and the Opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the shortcomings observed in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH. On 28.01.2016, the Proposer submitted a new text of the bill. The Nationals' Constitutional Legal Commission found that the bill was in line with BiH's constitutional and legal system. The joint defence and security commission of BiH has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading at its 25th session, held on 16 December 2016. I give my word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. Here you go, Mr. Podžić. It's like the report. Thank you. I give my word to the law's promoter, the Ministry of Defense. Here you go, Mrs. Pendeš. Like in the proposal, you're not looking for a word. That's enough, thank you. I'm opening a debate on this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1494	... what was said on the Commission,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1495	The word is Mr. Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1496	So we're not for this law, which doesn't mean that we shouldn't give him a chance to go through today and get another reading where we're going to be given the opportunity to act through the amendments and fix it. I'm just saying this for a stenogram. So if he stays the way he is, he won't have our support. If the amendment is respected, it's the subject of an agreement, then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1497	Thank you. It's the club's bet from the Serb people's delegates. The debate is still open, is anyone answering for a word? There are no further reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH, in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 10 were for, against no one, three delegates were abstained. From Federation 6 for, against no one, abstention 2, from Republika Srpska 4 for, against none, abstention 1. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point eight, 17 Ad. 8. Action Plan to implement BiH Council of Ministers Reform Agenda, Council of Ministers material At the last 14th session of the House of People, held on 09.02.2016, the people adopted the next conclusion. I quote -- "Because of the absence of the proposing at the meeting of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the debate on the Action Plan for the implementation of the Reform Agenda is delayed at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH until the next meeting of the House of Peoples. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare the Information on the implementation of the Reform Agenda at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and to deliver it to the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for further consideration."The Council of Ministers prepared and delivered the Report to the House on the Progress of Implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda and the Revised Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has considered and received a flag of Information on the Action Plan for the implementation of the Reform Agenda at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH. At the 23rd session, held on 12.01.2016, the House of Representatives took note of the Action Plan. The word gives to the applicant, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Denis Zvizdić. Here's your Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1499	Thank you. Here's a short while, since we from the Council of Ministers have these respectable two minutes to answer such complex questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1500	Mr. Zvizdić, you now have 10 minutes, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1501	So, as you know, the Economic Reform Agenda and its credible implementation were one of the key and most important conditions for the submission of a credible application by Bosnia and Herzegovina for EU membership, and it was, in fact, a basic document and a guideline based on which EU institutions, especially the European Commission, and Commissioner Han and the respected Mrs Mogerini also opted to open the possibility for Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit the application. In addition, there were a few additional conditions, but a credible implementation of the Economic Reform Agenda in all its six key and fundamental areas that will ultimately lead to the creation of a very stable economic environment, a good business environment, a quality environment for the labour market, a quality and efficient public administration and, of course, the reform of those systems that are relevant to the social quality of people's lives, such as health and pensions or social systems. When we speak at the Council of Ministers level, I can say that of the 33 general measures envisaged, we are in a very condensed time period of six months, because the Economic Reform Agenda is valid for 48 months, in six months we have implemented 17 measures, which is more than 50% of the envisaged and defined measures defined in the text of the Economic Reform Agenda for the level of 18 Council of Ministers. But also such dynamics, in a slightly smaller percentage and scope, but very high quality were followed by entity governments, since they and within this action plan have a slightly higher number of such reform procedures, measures and activities, but also the degree of realisation in entity governments is very respectable for this six-month period and it is moving, depending on the aspect of the view, from 25 to 38% of the realized economic reform agenda. So, cumulative institutions, authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers, two entity governments realised one-third of the Economic Reform Agenda in six months. And this has already yielded first results in terms of slight economic growth or increasing all vital economic parameters on the basis of which economic stability and economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina are estimated. At this point we are working on a common, cumulative text of the state-of-the-art state of implementation of activities and measures from the Economic Reform Agenda. The Council of Ministers and two entity governments formed a joint team composed of experts who analyse the measure by measure and of course the dynamics and benefits that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have after the implementation of such measures. The document will be adopted very, very quickly as a joint document by three governments and will be presented in both entity governments and here at the Council, or the Council of Ministers, as well as at both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. But I can already say that, when we talk about the executive authority at these three levels, we are satisfied with the current degree of implementation of the envisaged measures and activities of the Economic Reform Agenda. I want to repeat that it is very serious, very serious laws, activities and measures that really change the patterns of behaviour so far, which we saw when we adopted the Labour Act in both entities. They also challenge, of course, a certain degree of dissatisfaction between trade unions and other interested entities for such measures. Such measures will be further, so the measures will be difficult, the measures will be painful, but they will have to be implemented in an accelerated period of time that will not last 48 months, which is a period of validity alone, for the implementation of the Reform Agenda. This will have to be done practically during 2016, in order to make it an attractive area for domestic and foreign investors by improving economic opportunities and business environments. So, what I can briefly say is that the realisation of all the envisaged measures and activities of the Economic Reform Agenda is taking place precisely in that dynamic as defined and planned in the action plans and the Council of Ministers and both entity governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1502	Thank you too, Mr. Chairman. I'm opening a debate. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1503	I would like to thank Mr. President and welcome the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers. And here, I welcome this way of communication between the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples, because at the last session because of the Council of Ministers' absence, we had one conclusion that we unanimously adopted, to postpone the debate on the Action Plan for this session and to ask the Council of Ministers for a report on the implementation of this Action Plan. And I'm glad that here today it is possible that we have also received this report from the chairman of the 19-minister council. And immediately to say, regardless, means the formal position of the opposition, I can also sincerely support this report and this approach promoted by the Council of Ministers as a team, and also by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in terms of importance, of strategic importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the new European approach and the need for Bosnia and Herzegovina to accept and understand what this new European approach means and to benefit the potential of this European approach, which, of course, entails the implementation of painful reforms. And we see today that we have, meaning not only the disputes, but also the institutional decisions of the Constitutional Court when it comes to a labour law relating to the Federation of BiH. Some of us have warned back then that the implementation of the Reform Agenda does not mean bypassing and violating constitutional and other procedures, and today it is necessary to warn here again, so that it is possible to put all of this into institutional and procedural space that such things do not happen to us and that we do not waste our time and energy in such a way. And in any case, this effort is visible, I say to the Council of Ministers, and the government, and what is clearly missing in that space, and it must be publicly said today, is, therefore, unrelated to this answer by the Chairman on the Coordination Mechanism, that there is too much politicization in that space. I'm not going to address that policy space now, but the fact, therefore, that this policy process is taking too long for certain strategic decisions, and one of them is certainly the Coordination Mechanism, and I think it's a good thing that the Council of Ministers doesn't fall into that trap, but rather, in a way, it's a locomotive for the implementation of that Agenda. And in that sense, I think this House should be supported by the Council of Ministers for this approach. Inside that approach, here you are, Mr. Zvizdić, saying it's a cross-section done. We're not today, I believe in what you said personally, but we don't have the parameters today when that will be access. I think it's good to know as a home today when we're going to be able to have an objective insight based on the parameters of each of these reforms, what are the effects of that. I will only single out one important reform here, so – prepare and carry out tax audits and inspections based on risks at all levels to ensure increased collection of unpaid tax debts. The deadline was this month. We should already have the effects and effects of seeing what the results are and whether there is space, what parliaments should do and what executive authorities do, what tax inspections. Only one of the elements, the other, improve the use of international economic assistance. And we all, in fact, focused one of the biggest and most significant parts of the story on the space for Bosnia and Herzegovina to use those potential funds. ...we need some... We see that even the member states, here is Croatia's last entry into the EU, have not taken advantage of 40% of the potential, and there are disputed governments previous and this, the opposition, the position, the public, why the opportunities that stand at the disposal of a country are not used. I think that here we should get one review in writing of potential and potential projects, not just financial, but reformal, and see how much they are used, which is whose responsibility and I think it should now be in this process that you have announced to be a real practice of all of us, not just policy issues, but one objective information, first of all of these largest legislative institutions, then the public on the benefits and then, of course, on the basis of this, the political process towards Europe, and not that every day we get a challenge whether this decision has been made in this way, in that way, and in fact, everyone has a responsibility in accordance with their constitutional powers, and not to dispute and limit the process. So here's my support for this izviješće and in my opinion one of the conclusions should be, I'd like to hear when we can specifically have that intersection by all... because it was our request. Today we have received one, I would say, the Council of Ministers' testimony which, for me, is positive, but for one precise assessment of the real state of affairs of the implementation of the Reform Agenda and its consequences we need this intersection, which is here, but I don't think it can be delayed for more than a month not to consider it at this House. Thank you very much. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1504	Thank you too, Mr. Raguž. Further applications for participation in the discussion? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1505	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1506	Of course, Mr. Zvizdić, let's see with the delegates. So, further applications for participation in the debate regarding delegates are not available at this time. I give the word, at his request, to the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1507	Very short. Because I think the esteemed representative Raguž was just talking about the core, that is, what we need to focus on when we talk about the Econ Reform Agenda. In fact, we will have one cross-section of the realisation of the Economic Reform Agenda at the level of the Council of Ministers and two entity governments very soon. In the next 10 days, we will clearly define what measures have been adopted, and which governments will adopt at all levels in the next period, and we will know certain benefits, or we will have the benefits of those measures that have been adopted so far. They are already very visible, and I can say three or four basic indicators, which is about 3% GDP growth, and all vital economic parameters are in '15. the year has been significantly improved compared to previous years, since the increase in industrial production, the increase in the number of employees, the increase in GDP, the increase in exports that will go above 4%, the decrease in imports, or the external trade deficit, the increase in the number of tourists, the increase in revenues, etc. So everything that actually speaks in a way about the slight economic growth and economic growth of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, you are absolutely right when you say that insufficient engagement, for me, really, I must say, sometimes fully based on unacceptable arguments, which are sometimes more a reflection of the need to pass certain laws of the common strategy, than it can in any way compromise constitutional jurisdiction and do not interfere with the transfer of competence, but that is why we are losing significant money especially from the IPA and other EU funds. We must be aware that in the last 5 years we have lost at least 100m euros from IPA funds exclusively intended for agriculture for only one simple reason that we have failed to agree on the principle of a common control agency for payments in agriculture that all countries have in the EU environment. On the other hand, we alone have IPA 2 funds for the period 2014-2017, all other countries have for the period 2014-2020. And that is why... the results, we have the following information that we can withdraw up to 160m euros, while, say, Albania will withdraw 370 and Serbia 890m euros. I don't think Bosnia and Herzegovina can lose money from funds, we need these money to develop our key sectors. And we lose money for the simple reason that there are simply no common strategies, and yet there is no reason that entities do not agree to the methodology proposed by the Council of Ministers' level, which is that existing strategies at entity level are united at Bosnia and Herzegovina level with a joint presentation of common priorities and objectives, a deal in two areas, i.e. three, that is energy, transport infrastructure and the environment. If we do that, and hopefully we will, we've started to form working groups and co-operate with entities, then we can count on very serious funds both in this and in the coming years. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are no further applications for participation in the debate. Now we're moving on to a plea. We declare on a document called the Report on the progress of the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda, the revised Action Plan for the realisation of the BiH Reform Agenda, and by voting for whether or not we accept it. I urge you to initiate the voting procedure. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present - 9 delegates were in favour, 1 was against, and 3 were abstained. From Federation of BiH 7 to, 1 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 2 for, against none and abstention 3. There is a general and entity majority, so I understand that we have received a report on the progress of the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda, the revised Action Plan for the Implementation of the BiH Reform Agenda. We're going to work at point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Procurement of personal documents – case study", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission accepted the Impact Review Report on the subject of "Procuring Personal Documents – Case Study" and concluded that the Report could be referred to a further parliamentary procedure and proposed its adoption to the House. The Commission also adopted the following conclusion, whose adoption is proposing to the House, which reads: – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Identification Documents of Records and Data Exchange of BiH to report within 6 months to the Committee for Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the planned and undertaken activities of the implementation of the Report recommendations, and to inform the Office for Auditing BiH institutions. At the 24th session, held on 03.02.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Report with its conclusion. I give my word to the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr. Sifet Podžić, if he wishes, since Mrs. Ljilja Zovko is not present. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give my word to the applicant of the review report, if he wishes, there you are. You don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this report. A dear colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž, came forward for his word. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1510	Thank you. In front of us, I would say, a very thorough and very responsible and serious report on the acquisition of personal documents, in the name of "case study", which refers to a job agreed on for the issue of personal documents, means personal IDs and driver's licenses, which began to be implemented in 2013 and which, apart from the benefits which it has clearly brought and the good things that have been done, which is a modern and functional system of personal data management, the issue of personal documents, and the quality of protection, obviously, has produced many very serious issues in the case of spending of budget funds, i.e. the funds that the citizens have allocated, and I will remind us all here that the Council of Ministers has made a decision to cover the costs of issuing personal documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, their service, which is to pay the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the price of the ID card established on 18 KM and driving licenses on 60. And when we see in the total cost projection, how much was that contract at 104 million, somewhere around here, KM and these are huge funds. And when we see the way in which the agreement was reached on the realisation of this job, which is by negotiating and by direct contract, then it is objectively asking very important questions whether the negotiating team has done the best job, whether it has protected the interests of positive competition, transparency of the whole process, and all in order to make sure that they do not pay the possible price to citizens who are most directly concerned with such economic and social circumstances. And when we see this report, I can say that the Office of Audit has made a good report and made good recommendations, where the Office of Audit clearly indicates that there has been a failure because there has been insufficient transparency, meaning insight, as the whole process of reaching agreement and signing agreements with one single firm and only one single firm has been provided, not now entering into some other elements of the job. And the third thing, the way it was negotiated, where it is said that the initial price with which it started, has been reduced by 60 million KM, is not enough guarantees that the negotiators have used all the capacities to ensure this lowest possible price paid by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this report is, actually needs to be shown, and that's why I answered the word, and here I can do it and in the name of the club I mean freely, so this kind of stuff is necessary, but it's not enough. What about the recommendations, what about their realization? So, we're too often accepting the Office of Audit's reports, we just find that there are failures, irrational spending of funds, insufficient transparency, and things are still continuing. And these recommendations that are given here, which are good for me, I will only go through these three recommendations here for a short time because they are very important, so the first recommendation is that the Agency for Identification documents analyses the possible adverse consequences of the contract, especially those relating to the obligation to pay for the total amount of contracted personal documents as well as other contractual items which can cause damage under the budget of the institutions, and try them in agreement with the supplier adequately to resolve them. Here, the committee in charge supported this report and set a six-month deadline. I think this deadline is too long and it needs to be shortened to three months for this analysis to be made and these potentially harmful consequences to be removed and we get a report here, not in half a year, because it's going to go away in the summer, so in the fall, we're going to lose the whole dynamics. And I think here we can adopt this conclusion of the commission with a six to three-month cut. Unfortunately, this also shows one weakness throughout this process, which is that when it comes to investment investments by the Council of Ministers, the BiH institutions, we do not have quality teams, experts who would do an independent expert assessment of the harmfulness, i.e. the benefits of investment investments. And I think that one general recommendation that the negotiating teams of 23 should be called completely impartial, independent and competent persons should also be realised and we should get one feedback from the Council of Ministers within 3 months of what to do in order to prevent and avoid such and similar situations, and to show me here as parliamentarians responsibility for spending budget funds and to protect the interests of each citizen. Thank you very much. So, a concrete proposal for a conclusion, if necessary, is a reduction from 6 to 3 months, when it comes to these recommendations and a report on their implementation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1511	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. There is no need for you to write this specifically, we will try to establish agreement between you and the management of the Finance and Budget Commission, so that we can then move on to a statement on what is a single proposal. The word goes on by a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1512	I thank the chairman. I think this case really needs to be studied, as is the subtitle here – "case study". So, when we introduced an electronic ID card, one of the Council of Ministers' arguments was then using an electronic service, which will significantly facilitate the use and receipt of many documents, the provision of services by the Public Administration, etc., etc. This was the reason to define ourselves for an electronic ID card in whose price the chip that is intended for this electronic service is between 30 and 45%, and in the total amount of planned ID cards is between 30 and 40 million KM to be paid by citizens. So, since the introduction of the electronic ID card, it's been almost 3 years and more than 1.7 million citizens have asked for and received an electronic ID card and paid for that electronic ID card and paid for that chip, and that I.D. has served all this time as well as every ordinary identification document and nothing else. I welcome the review report, but they are carefully approaching at the end... to assess the possible adverse consequences. This is not at all about the possible adverse consequences, this is about the very obvious, clear, safe, precise, measurable, harmful consequences that every citizen of 1.7 million has suffered by paying for what someone has hit, we'll see how, and by paying for something he hasn't needed in three years at all. So, in 2013 and 2014, 50% less ID cards were delivered and about 30% less driver's licenses than planned and agreed. So, on the one hand, it opens up the possibility quite certainly that a total quantity as planned, very unskilled, very irresponsiblely planned, will not be delivered at the end. And on the other hand, for two years the delivery of IDDEEA documents paid out of the budget an advance worth 15.3 million KM. If it had been paid as paid in the first two years, only 7.8 million KM would have been paid. So double or 7.8 million were paid for what was needed, and 7.8 million were taken from the budget and paid for what was not even delivered. It has been neglected, of course, in the negotiation and aspect of the weather development of chip-making technology in terms of a possible reduction in the price of older generations due to the release of a new generation of chips, etc., etc. So, we had a team event here, as it is called, that negotiated, negotiated a job that manifested absolute irresponsibility towards budget money, 24 absolute irresponsibility with citizens who had paid already in significant amounts of this irresponsibility, and, of course, completely for unclear reasons, neglecting all these time aspects of technology development. And the only thing that was very precise in this, in detail, and in due respect, is paying a lot of millions to the delivery company. Of course, the competent institutions should do their job, and they should do their job, I believe they will. But this report is thorough, responsible, I think that the recommendations, to some extent, do not follow the content of the document, that they have been tempered, but in any case the conclusion of our Commission, which asked for a report on what was taken, are too much to remove these adverse consequences, not only that have arisen, but those that will come into existence quite certain and that it will try to save as much as possible, if it is possible to save anything more. And I support Mr. Raguž's proposal to cut this deadline to really three months, because this will seem to be the topic we're going to be dealing with today or three months, or maybe six. But it would take us three months to actually report from IDDEEA what was done to save this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1513	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Correction of the false allegations, distinguished colleague Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1514	Thank you. Well, I didn't know what I was going to press, it's not really a debate, and it's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I said this was the closest thing to me since I thought I'd move on to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1515	That's what they call it as close as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1516	Mr. Genjac, what was he saying? So, a colleague is absolutely right, and he and Mr. Raguž, everything they said. I'd have an appeal. Here's the deal, so this famous negotiating team of ours, we've got nothing to fix anymore, they've been negotiating that we're going to pay up to the dinar for what's been ordered. So five million of these, and by now we need them twice as much, and we'll end up paying for it, that's it. Tax bonds, they negotiated that a more expensive driver's license than in Germany, that our standard is similar, so we don't have a problem with that either. They really managed to negotiate that it was a miracle. And I see in the audit izviješće, which is very precisely written, that the members of the negotiating team were speaking, four of them, if I remember correctly, have no idea about it, but this one said so they supported it. Here, I'd just like to appeal, I'm glad the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here and the Honored College, that we don't send such negotiating teams in the future because this kind of negotiation can't stand America, let alone Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1517	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. There are no further applications for participation in the debate. 25 So, first we vote on the Impact Review Report on the subject of "Procuring Personal Documents – Case Study". Please initiate a plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 8 delegates, no one against them, 5 delegates were detained. Mr. Genjac, please intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1518	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1519	You want again, at the request of Mr Halid Genjac, head of the Bosniak People's Club, we repeat the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 9 delegates were for, against no one, four delegates were detained. From Federation 7 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 2 for, against none, abstention 3. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Impact Review Report on the subject of "Procuring Personal Documents – Case Study" was adopted. We are now moving to brief consultations on this conclusion. I call on the First Vice-President of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mr Darko Babalj, to declare whether they accept this proposal and whether they want a break in order to agree on a 6 to 3 months reduction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1520	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1521	A five-minute break in the O.R., while members of the Finance and Budget Commission consult, do they accept this intervention, so that we can come to a unique conclusion. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Babalj has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1523	In the same text, the House of Representatives adopted this conclusion where it was said for 6 months. We debated on the Commission, just as the House debated today, and came to the conclusion, or to the answer that it is safer to be in 6 months than to be in 3 months. I understand what Mr. Raguž and Mr. Genjac are saying, but we just said that, and then we came to the conclusion that it's been six months. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1524	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. Mr. Raguž, if I understood correctly and I think I did, the statement positive, your proposal to amend the proposal for this conclusion would mean that at least a month, maybe a month and a half, we would lose in the procedure, while this would all be settled at the House of Representatives, agreed on the text, or that, right, would create a confusion and then be published in the relevant Official Messenger. So, is it acceptable, respecting our agreement that this deadline should be shortened, that you give up your proposal to amend this conclusion. Here you go, word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1525	Well, it's not a dispute, so we're looking for rational solutions, but it's no longer working for us to slave for form, so now... This is really about doing something about it, not just having formal conclusions. I'm convinced, today is the end of the second month, take those six months, it's the end of the 8th month, and take the situation when it comes to the agenda, and we'll see if it comes this year. I can't and, I think I can give up just so you don't bother now, negotiate with the House of Representatives, and here in that context I'll give up, but I can't give up this argument, because that would mean giving up the whole debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-03-02-0.u1526	Thank you, Mr. Raguž, for your correctness. I am sure that the people responsible for this area are following the work of the House of Peoples and are aware that our expectations are not as flexible as the deadline given to them for the interests of the public and the costs that are daily created, but here are the practical reasons which represent both a reduction of time, i.e. a useful use of time, thank you for giving up your proposal. Accordingly, we will move to a statement on the Commission's proposal for a financial and budgetary conclusion. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were for, against no one, two delegates were abstained. From Federation 7 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 4 for, against none, abstention 1. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Nations has been adopted. The agenda of today's session remains to be agreed on for ratification of agreements and acts. I suggest that, in accordance with our practice, we bring together a debate on the plea of points 10 to 13 including item 13 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate about this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on how to work on these points of the agenda. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour. From Federation 8, Republika Srpska 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I realize that we've united the debate on the 10-13 points, including the 13th agenda. 27 Ad. Ten. - Ad. 13. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, contracts and acts You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. I give my word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Commission, if he wishes. It stays like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the agreement, protocol and contract referred to in points 10 to 13 including item 13 of the agenda. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 8 for, from Republika Srpska 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that we have agreed to ratify the agreements, protocols, contracts and acts referred to in points 10 to 13 including item 13 of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I realize that we have completed the 15th session of the House of Peoples, I hereby conclude the 15th session. You will be notified of the date on which the next session is held. Thank you. Session completed at 13:40 p.m.
