ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14141	Please take your seats. I am opening the 33rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by Milica Marković, Miroslav Milovanović, Senad Šepić and Hazim Rančić, and the delay was announced by MP Hanka Vajzović. According to the Service, 35 MPs attend the session, so we have a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are lined up according to the order of arrival, and we will present them in this order. I give my word to Ambassador Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14142	I thank the chairman. First, to define whether I have a question to ask, because the question is addressed to President Denis Zvizdić, who is not there, I mean that chairman, not you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14143	What's your question, why isn't there a chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14144	No, but my question is aimed at the chairman, so who is not in a position to answer, should I ask the question so that I ask the oral question or how, because watch out for this issue from April 26th, which is waiting for us, which is the chairman, so I don't know how to get out.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14145	Do we have someone who's authorized?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14146	Can I ask the Minister of Security, but I didn't tell him, he doesn't know what I'm going to ask him? 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14147	Do we have any information on whether the chairman will be here so we can postpone this later?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14148	You see, let me ask the question and let him answer in writing, because he's been waiting since April.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14149	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14150	So I start with 50 and a few seconds, we'll take care of it, of course. So, the chairman of his exhibition, chaired by the Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić, pledged to form a National Security Council of BiH that would form the highest representatives of the state and entity's legislative and executive authorities, the heads of intelligence and most important police agencies. The specific question is – As far as it came with it, since it also promised to draw up a security policy document 2015–2025. A year? Reason: There are great tensions in the state, and I support this promise, which I believe is unfulfilled, that the National Security Council is formed, that there are huge tensions around the announcement, and that there are preparations for the referendum. I think there's work here for possibly the National Security Council. The second thing, when I ask this question, is not to ask a question about the Anti-Terrorist Impact Group, which was formed in 2013 based on the solution of the then Minister of Security Radončić, but precisely for the National Security Council. So these are two separate variations. One of the reasons is the terrorism that is present across Europe, and look at this, "Free Dalmatia", as of Saturday, says who is next, first page, their journalist Antun Masle says where terrorists will hit the next, where there will be the next blow, and says – whether we, like Croatia, are the future topic and future place, says – and in our public, the question is whether Croatia...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14151	Mr. Magazinović, you've run out of time, I've added what's at the beginning...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14152	Let me just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14153	All right. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14154	Very important for the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14155	Let's do another sentence and get it over with. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14156	It says – whether Croatia is safe in the season, given that the terrorist core is in the nearer and further neighbourhood, we are referring to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The same findings were made in my colleagues' journal. So I think we should get an answer to what's up with the National Security Council, do you, what about the tensions in the state does this have...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14157	Thank you, that's three sentences already, and we'll be looking for an answer in writing. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14158	Thank you very much. My question is to the Justice Department, but I don't see the minister, I don't see the minister here. So, I really wouldn't want it, given that the issue of attacks on Serb convicts at the Zenica Penitentiary, from day to day, is happening, new events are meeting us with this problem and given some opinion, although it is not his strict jurisdiction, but it is the suggestion of the Ombudsman to take over the role of coordinator in this process to finally allow convicts to live, reside in prisons in places closest to their home. Since the Ministry of Justice of the Federation is obstructing that position, it would be interesting to hear – What did the minister of justice do on that plan? So, here's the question I asked, I hope it's passed on to him, but I'm retaining the right and next time if I don't have to repeat this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14159	Thank you. Does anyone have an answer to this question? If not, Ms. Majkić said she would ask the question again at the next question. Well, if not, we'll go to the next one, MP Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests. I have a question for the Council of Ministers. In fact, it is a question, practically to the director of the Institute of Metrology of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who has voluntarily passed the Order on criteria in legal metrology and deadlines and verification in which, among other things, so-called ‘piplmetre’ declared as a criterion of legal metricology. On the basis of this Order, an illegal designation of the Laboratory for the verification of the ‘piplmeter’ criterion was followed. My question is to the Council of Ministers – Is the Council of Ministers consulted in the adoption of the said Order? In which countries is the “piplmetre ” of legal metrology? Whose consent did the director have when he named that labaratorij? At first, I explained briefly what was going on. According to the information I have, it's about a voluntary decision by the director and something that really isn't a practice in other countries. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14161	Thank you. Minister Šarović, as I understand it, has the responsibility to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14162	Thank you. I have no responsibility, no question directly to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, but I can answer about this orally like this in this short time, we will deliver a written reply. The Institute of Measurement, or metrology, did not consult the Council of Ministers when adopting this document. There have been more complaints from certain entities-level institutions, but also certain media houses, and in this sense, the Council of Ministers has been tasked by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to prepare for this issue, according to these objections, information that will be presented in some reasonable time to members of the Council of Ministers. And the full answer will be delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14163	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, you have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14164	I thank the Honorable Minister. I reserve the right when I receive a written reply to comment, since, as the minister himself said, this is now in oral form. The fact is, therefore, that the Council of Ministers is not consulted in the adoption of this Order, the fact is that this Order is quite controversial, and especially when taking that results or consequences are significant throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina's media market, where it is obvious that several media houses are forced, which, of course, use this to attract advertisers and thus gain property benefits. Only when I get a written answer will I enter deeper, deeper commentary of this question. I think it's a serious question that, unfortunately, simply because of some people who are in the fog like this, they solve some questions on one very interesting, therefore, way without consulting, without legal procedure and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14165	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić is not present, I give the word to Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14166	I thank the chairman. I referred the question, or announced the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina whom I don't see here, unfortunately I don't even see his deputy, I don't understand why, uh,...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14167	So we got a memo from the foreign minister that he was prevented and that he couldn't be. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14168	I understand that, but I guess there's a purpose for the deputy, right, in the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14169	I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14170	And by law, it is the purpose of the deputy to change the minister when this one is prevented in something. That's why I'm having the same problem. Anyway, I'm gonna ask the question, so I hope one day the foreign minister will come and answer it. What is the reason why, under the regulation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign ministers, has repeatedly refused to submit answers to parliamentary questions that I provided as part of the 23rd session of the House of Representatives since 5 January and reiterated through additional issues since 7 March? I recall that this case is not about late delivery of answers, but that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs explicitly refused to give an answer to the asked question by justifying it, I quote, with the opinion, that providing a reply would not give a real and real picture of the Ministry's work cycle, nor contribute to a better understanding of the activities involved in the DKP network. In this regard, I remind you that the Foreign Ministry is in violation of this, not only of the clear obligations prescribed by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, but also of a far more explicit violation of Article 27. The BiH administration law, which clearly states that the authorities of the administration, which of course includes the ministries, are obliged to answer the question of MPs, or delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Since the foreign minister clearly violates, therefore, the provisions of the Administration Act, I ask him to answer me, to give me an oral answer, to provide me with answers to the questions I asked in writing in January, and to repeat in March, and to give me a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14171	Here, we have now agreed in the College to re-send to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to remind them that it is their duty to give the MPs answers to questions. The next question is Ambassador Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14172	Comrades and colleagues, distinguished guests, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, who are present and who have not been asked a single question, I warmly welcome you all. I asked the President of the Council of Ministers, but he's not here, but I do believe that the question will work in some ways and on its own, so I'm going to ask him anyway. The question is – Please explain to us, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, the absence of your signature on the letter of intent towards the International Monetary Fund, which was agreed and adopted on the Fiscal Council? 6 I will remind you of only one sentence from the Reform Agenda, which reads: budgets will be established and maintained on a firm medium-term basis agreed with the International Monetary Fund in an arrangement that will follow the current stand-by arrangement. There are several sentences in the Reform Agenda concerning co-operation with the IMF, but I have listed only this one here. I have carefully followed the reasoning offered by the chairman of the Council of Ministers through the media to the public on this subject, but I still hold that there are at least two reasons to ask this question here. The first, in my opinion, is that, at least I think, it is very important and important, and in some way binding, that we hear this argument right here in Parliament. The second reason is that I, indeed not at my best and with the greatest effort, have failed to understand how blocking a part of the reform process can help this reform process in the medium or long term. We have witnessed and heard that, in recent times, the arrangement with the IMF has been assessed, which has been concluded, assessed as very high quality and good and better than so far stand-by arrangements, but we have also witnessed that due to the absence of these signatures, two signatures, on the letter intending that arrangement indefinitely delayed. So I would really like to be here, and I expect, in a way, and the written answer, to hear that one explanation that will convince us of the quality reasons for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14173	Thank you. A message from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14174	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. Before I ask the question to the distinguished Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Osmanović, from this place, I want to show full support to students and students in Jajc who have clearly shown that in Bosnia and Herzegovina they are not for division, that they are not for nationalism, that they are not for segregation and discrimination, and that they want to live together, that they want to offer this Bosnia and Herzegovina a better future. I also thank them for coming out publicly, expressing their position since we are witnessing that young people are leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina more and more, but leaving without showing any kind of protest. As decisions in Bosnia and Herzegovina come in an already-concerned way not to ask who the decision concerns, so this time it was not the case for students and pupils in Jajco to want two separate schools. However, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Honorable Minister is chairing the Conference of Ministers and Ministers of Education, so my question to the respected Minister – What is he, as the Minister, who runs the Conference, taken to avoid the division in Jajco, did he have or did he have a conversation with the distinguished Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sports, Mrs Katica Čerkez, who said that this kind of division has the support of the local community and the Government of the Central Bosnian Canton? I ask the question – Who is this local community if we are witnessing that all the media have passed on the student attitude, and I will read that attitude again – we do not want nationalism to spread among the students facing the future. The rivalry that happens in this division will not lead to better education, nor better human relations. Equality should stand out in this city and in these schools. Is that why we don't want a split? So I'm asking the minister to give me an answer. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14175	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14176	Honorable chairman, vice-president, esteemed MPs and representatives of this high House. In the context of the question raised by the representative of Maja, I remind you that, according to Article 1. A memorandum of understanding for the establishment of a Conference of Education Ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a Ministers' Conference established as the permanent and highest advisory body for the co-ordination of the education sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which does not affect the constitutional and legal responsibilities of the competent authorities at all levels of decision-making. Furthermore, when we talk about the activities of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and me as a minister on any basis in the field of education, as well as in what is referred to in the question, we must bear in mind the competence of this ministry which are exclusively in terms of establishing the basic principles of coordinating activities, harmonising the plans of the entity bodies of authorities, defining the strategy on the international plan. In line with its responsibilities, in co-operation with the competent educational authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has for many years been taking action to create preconditions and obligations for the development of a tolerated, multiethnic environment in schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Laws at all levels of government and all levels of education guarantee equal access and equal opportunities for participation in appropriate education and education and enjoy equal treatment, treatment without discrimination on any basis and no law contains discriminatory provisions. However, the fact is that mechanisms that guarantee full implementation of the legal provisions have not yet been fully established. Bearing in mind that according to the BiH Constitution, the education area is in the exclusive jurisdiction of Republika Srpska entities, ten cantons in the Federation of BiH and the Department of Education in the Government of the Brcko District of BiH, the Ministry of Civil Affairs will continue to point to the obligation to apply and respect the principles and standards set out in the Framework Law and thus ensure that education is provided on equal terms for all students. As far as jurisdiction is concerned We have an Education Ministers' Conference on Thursday and we will, of course, open a debate. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14177	Thank you. The letter has the right to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14178	I thank the Honorable Minister and will ask him to deliver it to me in writing. I am familiar with all the meetings of the Conference, and I have participated in all and one, where exactly this has been shown and what the minister says is that this is a declarative commitment to the community, for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the education system without discrimination, so when they meet, they say that they can't agree on anything, that is to say, what is the purpose of the session and the existence of one such conference at all. However, I will remind you, Mr. Minister, that in schools in Jajc, you learn equal and Bosnian and Croatian 8 languages, so under one roof, then one school would absolutely have every opportunity not to separate the students physically but to learn the native language of which the students and their parents have committed themselves, so that my question, as well as the BiH Presidency, what is also a major questionnaire, is the project signator of the project – dialogue for the future, has given all the support that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is a commonity, that education institutions are talking about the community and not about divisions. And I ask the question – is the result of what you promised at the beginning of school 2015/2016. that you will take all the activities to eliminate two schools under one roof, is this, in fact, the result that you will physically separate students and pupils from even meeting each other? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14179	Thank you. Ambassador Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14180	My question is to the Minister of Security. Dear Ministers, this is the Dayton Peace Agreement, which states that the Constitutional Court decisions are final and binding, I repeat final and binding. The decisions of the Constitutional Court cannot even be debated, let alone convene an illegal, unconstitutional, anti-Dayton referendum. The possible maintenance of such a referendum in the RS entity is not only the collapse of the BiH Constitutional Court, but the collapse of the country's constitutional order. So, on September 25th, if this referendum happens, the essence of the Dayton Peace Agreement has been torn down and we need to be aware of that. To begin today, it is very important for this Parliament to leave a message that is unilaterally seeking to leave the Dayton Peace Agreement. We must mark this because of the possible unwanted development of the situation, it must be very clear and loud today. Ministers, entering a referendum of adventures affecting the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all its citizens and peoples can never complete a single referendum. Peace and peace process are at stake in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we should think about the future of both Serbian and Croatian, and Bosniak, and all other children in this country. For this and for the fact that the devil has indeed taken away the joke of you ministers, who are not guilty of what I am talking about, but is responsible together with many others, I ask – What are your assessments of the security situation, who will make 25.09 and afterwards and how will preserve peace and security in this country, who will guarantee citizens freedom and what mechanisms? I remind you there will be no referendum in this country, there has never been a referendum in this country. One referendum, it's only very important to know who started it first. [[Employee is warned on time]] So, Minister, I'd like to hear your security assessments against the collapse of the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14181	Thank you. Here's Minister Mektić will you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14182	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, honored guests. As far as this is concerned, I can say that I was familiar with that question late yesterday afternoon. And if you'll allow me, given the complexity, 9 complexities of this whole issue and the breadth of that question you asked me to provide you with the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14183	Thank you. So, a comment, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14184	So SDS voted in favour of this referendum adventure along with the SNSD. We here need to advocate peace, security, constitutionality and legality. I'm the vice president of the SDP, the SDP is important to me, but the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is much more important and much more important to me. I publicly urge all political parties and leaders who did not participate in the destruction or attempt to bring down the constitutional order to begin urgently in the coming days with the formation of a democratic alliance to protect the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is not a bit of a non-serious thing, it's a red line, it's been playing on that red line for a long time, we have to show a crystal clear answer here. If this goes beyond the constitutional order of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then there is no more Dayton structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the current constitution, we know which next legal constitution we are returning to in this country, it is the legal constitution of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina if this one is unilaterally brought down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14185	Thank you. Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14186	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to ask a question, even though I almost didn't comment on what I just heard. So my question is, I ask the Council of Ministers, the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation and our representative, Bosnia and Herzegovina, before the European Court of Human Rights. Namely, I had a chance recently, last week more precisely, to be in the Department of Forensic Psychology in Sokoc where I met the problems facing this facility. In fact, two years ago, the facility was fully equipped in every respect and technical sense, but in those two years, there are still no personnel available, and the director informed me that it was precisely in the course of the institution's staffing, which should address the issue which, in terms of the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, took over both entities and Council of Ministers. There should be around 167 such persons from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, from both entities. I am interested in the answer in this respect to be delivered to me by our representative before the European Court of Human Rights – How many cases are being handled in connection with possible damages that Bosnia and Herzegovina should pay, did not it not meet these conditions? What is it that the Bureau itself lacks to replace that part of the financial resources in terms of providing housing units for professional staff to be engaged in the institution itself? And other issues related to the completion of this job, because you know we have a problem with the implementation of the general measures related to the verdict of Hadzic-Hadžić-Suljić against Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in relation to achieving the ultimate goal, which is to remove all persons, I repeat, in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been given a judicial measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment in the establishment and other binding measures 10 treatments in the Sokoc Bureau of Forensic Psychology. I repeat once again, the institution exists, in the course of competitions, a certain part of the funds is missing, and there is a Council of Ministers, the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation to do so. Of course, the issue concerns our agent who needs to tell us what all of Bosnia and Herzegovina in financial terms can suffer as damages caused by the non-resolvement of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14187	Thank you. ministrica Borovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14188	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. A lot of this was answered by the esteemed representative Bojić himself, but here, let me answer this question in order, on behalf of the Council of Ministers agent. In order to implement the general measures under Hadzic-Hadžić-Suljić's ruling against Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers adopted the Action Plan for the implementation of the measures in 2012 and in '12. The year also adopted a Decision on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group on the Construction and Monitoring of the Implementation of the Plan. Out of the five activities foreseen by this Action Plan, three activities have been implemented without major difficulties and have been completed: Analysis of the necessary equipment of the Sokolac Institute for Forensic Psychology, analysis of the need for forced detention of persons in the same legal position as applicants and there are about 160 of them to be moved to this Office, rehabilitation of the Sokoc Institute facility has been carried out and funds are provided for the equipment of the Institute and the acquisition of medical and non-medical equipment. Partly implemented is activity 4 which is that the work on the equipment of the Institute has been completed, and still no necessary personnel have been provided. The 5th key activity has not been realized, and this is the transfer of persons from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Sokolac Institute for Forensic Psychology. A delay in the implementation of this activity causes delays in meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's general measures under Hadžić and Suljić's verdict, and thus closing this case before the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, bodies that oversee the implementation of the European Court's rulings. The Bureau of Forensic Psychology opened in '14. But until today, he hasn't started working as much as you've realized. As a reason for delays in the start of the work of this institution, members of the Interresor Working Group for the construction and monitoring of the implementation of the Action Plan in front of the Republika Srpska instructions are the lack of funds to start the work of this institution, the reception of medical and non-medical staff, the purchase of medicines etc. The Office of Representatives of the Republika Srpska government has repeatedly asked for information on whether the 2015 Budget of Republika Srpska provided or planned funds for the start of the Office's work, but no concrete response has been received. In June 2015, the Office of Representatives informed the Council of Ministers that the Institute has not yet begun its work, causing a delay in implementing the general measures under Hadžić and Suljić's ruling. The Justice Minister is in the sixth month of '15. After the Council of Ministers concluded, he sent a letter to the minister of justice of Republika Srpska and the minister of health and social protection of Republika Srpska for the purpose of realising the conclusion. But even after several emergencyes, the BiH Ministry of Justice has not received a return information from Republika Srpska. [[Employee is warned on time]] In late '15. The Federal Ministry of Health has delegated the issue of the Institute at the Health Ministers' Conference, but Republika Srpska has not offered concrete answers. Agreement on accommodation and cost compensation... measure... 11
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14189	Minister, time has run out twice, it's not double, but here, almost, if you can finish since time is limited.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14190	Here, I can generally say that, according to the latest information from the European Court of Human Rights, we do not have new cases such as Hadžić, but if new cases were to occur, and we know, we see how many of these cases are, and if they were to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights one day, one year of accommodation in this institution, which is not adequate for these persons, is 5,000 euros. That would hit the budget of both the Federation and the state if you, uh, convicts were treated that way. Therefore, the conclusion only remains that in the face of these financial resources that would be allocated from the budget should be directed towards the needs of the Institute, which the Institute needs to open, and further consultations with the Republika Srpska as the founder of this institution should be carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14191	Thank you. Commentary, is there any comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14192	Given the width of the answer, I would ask that, I see that you were preparing an answer, to deliver that answer to me in writing. Secondly, I would call on the competent institutions to immediately approach the realization of these activities, not to delay this because we will have serious consequences for the non-execution of these decisions, and simply such an institution exists. It seems to me, I've gotten the impression, this man who runs this institution is capable and can do it, it's about a very correct person and the staff up there can provide the functioning of this institution. Therefore, I call, therefore, on the authority that what happens afterwards may most likely happen to these 160, when lawyers find out what they can get as damages that they will run towards the Court of Human Rights, we will have serious financial consequences in both entities, and Bog will not be left out of the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14193	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Borjan Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14194	Dear Chairman, MPs, MPs, ministers, ministers, directors, respected and respected guests of this session and the media who convey our work today's session, I welcome you all blindly. My question was addressed to the foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr. Šarović, and it concerns the implementation of the Dhan Act. In fact, tobacco products found on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market that are manufactured must, therefore, be examined outside Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory before customs duties, i.e. in a laboratory for analysis of tobacco and tobacco processing, which are accredited by the Accreditation Institute. Therefore, in that 12 context, my question would read: Article 35. Bosnia and Herzegovina tobacco law "The Official Messenger", number 32/10, has been prescribed, among other things, that a laboratory for the analysis of tobacco and tobacco products is conducting the necessary tests on the quality of tobacco products on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market produced outside Bosnia and Herzegovina – for which reasons the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has not granted approval, i.e. determine laboratories that would analyse and superanalyze tobacco processing, and why did the minister not lay down the conditions for the implementation of Article 18(4) of the Regulation on the classification of cigarettes and marks "The Official Messenger of BiH", No 62/13, which would set out the conditions to be met by the laboratory for the analysis and identification of the physical and chemical properties of tobacco and tobacco products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14195	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14196	Thank you. Since we got the question yesterday afternoon, the letter reply, I'd say complete and comprehensive, we'll deliver later. I would now use this short time to say that the activities at the establishment of the Commission to determine the characteristics of tobacco products and the classification of cigarettes and the adoption of accompanying documents were halted at the end of 2013, and the activities were again updated by the establishment of a new meeting of the Council of Ministers, where activities were continued at the establishment of the Commission and the implementation of the certification procedures, i.e. the appointment of members from the resolution ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Water Management and Forestry of the Federation of BiH, the Ministry of Agriculture, the forestry and water management of Republika Srpska and the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Brcko District. I must say, the rules adopted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade have been subject to a long discussion with a group of tobacco importers and the European Commission DG Trade has been followed by an objection to the adoption of these Bosnian-Herzegovic sublaws to disrupt the rules of freedom of trade. However, in accordance with the Law on tobacco, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations adopted a Decision in early 2016 on the establishment of a Commission to establish the characteristics of tobacco products and the classification of cigarettes and published in Official Messenger No 19/16. The Commission's obligation is to refer, on the basis of defined criteria, to the Proposal for a Regulation on the classification of tobacco and tobacco processing for adoption, and before that, to the Minister for adoption, and before that the proposal for authorisation of laboratories on the basis of defined criteria. In order to ensure that, in accordance with the Regulation on the classification of cigarettes and stamps, such activities may and may be carried out, it is necessary to pre-defined accompanying documents in order to allow the Commission to start working as a Regulation laying down the tasting properties of certain ingredients of tobacco, tobacco mixtures of cigarettes, and a methodology for the implementation of the analysis prescribed in Article 15. Regulations concerning ISO standards and some of the European Commission's Directives. Here, very briefly, so there is currently a definition of the accompanying documents of these which I have mentioned, a procedure for determining the amount of fees to be charged by committees to determine the characteristics of tobacco products and the classification of cigarettes and registration in registers, as well as the level of fees for the work of the members of the Commission. The Council of Ministers of BiH adopts this request and approves the amount of fees for the classification and registration of tobacco products and I hope that this will happen as soon as possible, so that we can respond to this basic task of authorising laboratories for this part... Here, thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14197	Thank you. Commentary, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14198	Thank you to the Honorable Minister. Namely, in the light of my question it actually stood out, I tried to shorten it, uh, that formed the Committee to determine the characteristics of tobacco products and the classification of cigarettes, and actually you were in your answer and said everything that should be done. But here, I finally wanted to thank you, because that sentence you said is actually the point of my question that you'll do anything to, so meet these conditions. Here, thank you very much, but I expect you to write it all in response, as you said. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14199	Thank you. This concludes asking questions and giving answers. Before we move on to the agenda, we have one previous question. Namely, by working as a commission, the College of the House reached agreement on the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2015, which, in accordance with Article 86(2) of the Report, was adopted. However, there was also a proposal from the Commission for a conclusion which was not discussed at the time, so we must now make clear about the Commission's proposal for finance and the budget whose conclusion is: - The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers to consider the measures that will enable the appropriate organisational structure of the Office to discuss complaints and ensure the work of the Office in full capacity, so as to provide additional financial resources for employment in the Office, and in line with the priorities and demands of the Office to consider complaints against the Council of Ministers of BiH. This is, then, a proposal for a Commission conclusion on which we should now plead. Please prepare to vote. So, total present 36 - for 21, against 4, abstention 11. There is a general and entity majority, meaning that we adopted the Commission's conclusion. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change of the agenda, I would like to mention the following: Add to the agenda: Point 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for reviewing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-1853/16, since 07.07.2016. Point 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for reviewing the draft law amending the Law on the indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No 01.02-02-1-1854/16, since 07.07.2016. 14 Point 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, Law No: 01,02-02-1-185/16, since 07.07.2016. Point 7. The request of MPs Borislav Bojić, Nermina Kapetanović, Lazar Prodanović, Maja gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović to discuss the proposal for an addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to the urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1788/16, from 28.06.2016. Point 18. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-341/15, of 04.03.2016). Point 19. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' holidays and road registration devices (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-134/15, from 01.03.2016). The 9th point has now been completed: point 9. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on a Prosecution Procedure before the Court of Justice – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, since 18.03.2016. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. The first to discuss was Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14200	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, respected guests. As part of today's agenda session, I propose or submit an initiative to replace Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign ministers, Mr Igor Crnadko. The argument that you will receive later was mostly heard, and it was announced by the chairman of the Council of Ministers at one of the press conferences. I'm going to say a few more sentences today and the reasons for this initiative that I'm taking. As you already know a few days ago in Potocari was a memorial for the victims of genocide in Srebrenica and it is a memorial that has its established practice. And at the time of our first departures and memorials in Potocara, we had a series of bans that came from institutions, both entities, so state and we came in phase to overcome these bans. After several years, after all these years, Minister Crnadak was able to begin again with a decision that contained a ban on BiH's foreign ministry staff not participating in the organisation of the memorial, although the memorial centre is the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. His reasons are entirely... because he says that the statements of one chief, the head of the Srebrenica municipality, are violating the foreign political goals of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or one goal, and it is good neighbourly relations. It is true that the statements from Srebrenica violate these relations, but they are the answer to those who deny genocide. And no blame can be sought in those who desire justice and who wish to respect the decisions and judgments of the International Court of Justice. The thesis has been completely replaced here because we have 15 examples, if it comes to good neighbourly relations, our neighbour is Croatia, Croatia had a session in Potocari a few days ago where all MPs were wearing the Srebrenica Flower and were clearly and unequivocally determined by the verdict in relation to Srebrenica. Croatia's President, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović-Kitarovic, also made her statement. Are you forcing us, is Mr. Crnadak making us accept what is denied, genocide, and whether these are good neighbourly relations or whether these are on the western side when it comes to Croatia itself. And Srebrenica is a safe place, and its relationship with Srebrenica is very important, as relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina depend on Srebrenica, relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia depend on Srebrenica. Only a fair fair relationship and in line with international judgments can result in good relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina and relations between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can improve them as much as you want, at the level of the president, at the level of the government, at the level of anything, if anyone has a negative attitude when it comes to genocide itself, they will be violated and brought back. So I think Minister Crnadak made a mistake with his decision and the least he should do is withdraw this decision. And therefore, here I call on this Professional Service to share this initiative of mine, and I hope that your relationship here will also be the relationship that the neighbouring country of the Republic of Croatia had. It would be my turn for the BiH Parliament to have such a relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14201	Thank you. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14202	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall submit in writing a proposal to supplement the agenda item for which I propose it to be the first item of today's session or possibly the next one in the next ten days. I propose to address the tačka as: Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on constitutionally-legal, political and security implications and the consequences of the announced organisation of an anti-Dayton and anti-constitutional referendum in Republika Srpska's BH entity on the final and binding decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. On this subject, I would like to call on the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers or possibly the chairman of the BiH presidency to urgently organise the discussion of all political parties who did not participate in this referendum adventure in the coming days. So, I propose that all state lawmakers call on this conversation, all state ministers and presidents of political parties who did not participate. With the name and last name to call, therefore, Bakir Izetbegović, Dragan Čović, Fahrudin Radončić, Željko Komšić, Nermin Nikšić, SDA President Sefer Halilović, BPS President 1990. We better sit down, so, everyone, the situation is extremely serious, rather than going individually with a whole set of political legal, diplomatic and other countermeasures. So, I suggest we arrange it. In case they are deaf, there are already enough MPs and positions and opposition to organise such a meeting. I remind Parliament that at this point we have no more pressing and more important issues than that. No nation in any part of this country can organise a referendum to decide the fate of this entire country. Just imagine if it is possible for a Vojvodina to organise a referendum on the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. It's not. Is that possible in any country of the world? It's not. Can this survive the constitutional order of any country in the world? We know the answer to that, too. So the Dayton Peace Agreement is a painful package for everyone. He is also a package in 16 of Article VI which speaks of the Constitutional Court and in Article I of Article 3 which speaks of the existence of entities. No more supermarkets. We're gonna throw this away with referendums and we're gonna accept this. So I suggest that today, or possibly next session, we put this as the first item of the agenda, and I ask, I repeat, from the chairman of the Council of Ministers or someone from the Presidency to organise in the coming days a meeting where we will seriously agree on a whole set of countermeasures that can be established. It's not 5 to 12 anymore, I'm afraid it's 12 hours today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14203	Thank you. Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14204	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I have submitted a request for the inclusion of the agenda item concerning the discussion of the letter of intent to the IMF. We have already received, we have seen that this letter of intent has already come out, and the effects of this letter should be felt by the citizens after today's session of the BiH Parliament, because we already have three laws that are in order today, although we see that they are neither prepared in accordance with the procedures of the Parliamentary Assembly, and that citizens will obviously feel in their pocket. It is only the first part of what this government is preparing for us, meaning both the Federal and Entity and the state power that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And all that we see in the Scriptures of intent is desperate, desperate first of all and for the citizens, for the businessmen of this country, for the people who live from their work, unlike the people who bring the wrong laws here obviously. That is why I think it is high time to start acting under the BiH Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that all financial agreements and all financial arrangements have to go through the procedure that everyone else is going through. So it's an agreement, a 550m-euro financial agreement that won't pass through Parliament and the Presidency, that won't pass through the ratification path, while we have four or five agreements today that weigh perhaps 2.3 million people passing that path. All this shows unseriousness, meaning the ill intentions of the ruling in this country and the desire to fill the budget gaps they have made over 20 years of their rule. Today we will also see during the vote for this initiative who are these people who want well the citizens of this country, and who are they who want to destroy this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14205	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14206	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14207	I apologize, Aleksandra Pandurević, for correcting the wrong quote. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14208	I thank the chairman. Since the SDS is very interested in this debate about what is promised to the IMF, you have a conversation in us, but on behalf of the Club, I want to suggest something else. Let's see here all the IMF letters, correct your initiative, leave for the next session to put in charge of the Council of Ministers so that we can have all the credit and letters delivered to the IMF's intentions to discuss this. We are also interested in discussing this letter, because this letter demystifies all lies, lies factories called RTRS and shows that the actions that are here today are the consequences of the government's initiative of Republika Srpska, shows that the Government of Republika Srpska has agreed to transfer jurisdiction in part of the tax administration to obtain financial resources. We certainly want to discuss this, but I'm telling you we really need to see, it's impossible for six people, seven people, actually, to sit down and agree that this country will be in charge, and that neither Parliament nor the Council of Ministers nor anyone else knows about it. And that's why I, if you're willing to accept the suggestion, please leave for the next session, to ask the Council of Ministers for information on all credit arrangements with the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14209	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14210	Very fragile and on a similar background. When I proposed what Mr Bećirović proposed at last session, DF President Željko Komšić said he accepted it, but asked to discuss all letters of intent with the IMF in the past period. And that's how this initiative is mine and it's over last time, so I'm a little surprised that the DF, well, now that he's out with the same initiative, it doesn't matter, but he didn't respect his president's opinion, so he made the initiative the way it was agreed on last time. So, uh, I don't have a problem with considering this today, so the SDP Club asked for it last time, but here's if we're going to be consistent with ourselves, then it's going to offer both to the public and to Parliament to discuss all letters of intent in the past period.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14211	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14212	Of course we're consistent with ourselves, we've been looking for it since 2009. Mr Špirić knows that when DF President Željko Komšić sent letters while Mr Špirić was the finance minister to deliver those letters to us, however they never were. Some of these letters were signed by your president, Mr. Nermin Nikšić. So I think, Mrs. Pandurević, there's no more time to wait and it's high time to start arguing, so partially, means this way, then this way to go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14213	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14214	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. My request is to remove points 4, 5 and 6, from the agenda the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Indirect Taxation System and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to a Single Account and Allocation of Revenue. What's the reason for that? It is almost incredible that these three laws came from their own, from the mechanism of passing these laws completely excluded from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. In accordance with the powers of the Management Board, no law relating to indirect taxes can come to this Parliament without the Management Board giving its position. There is no Finance Minister here today, which is very unusual, given that this is such a serious issue, and therefore I have seen that the Director of the Direct Taxation Directorate is here, he probably knows the reason why this is done, because it is evident that the proposal has not been delivered after the hearing of the Management Board of indirect taxation, but has come as a proposal from the Directorate for indirect taxation, which is absolutely not possible under the Law on a system of indirect taxes. I remind you that the BiH Management Board is in accordance with Article 4. The law, the body responsible for law enforcement, and for policy and legal provisions relating to indirect taxation and their amendments, shall be responsible for the Management Board. This is the first time since the Law on a system of indirect taxes has happened in this case that comes to Parliament a law that has not passed a regular procedure. Worse, the documents are in addition to which, with the consent of the Directorate for European Integration, the Office for Legislative Affairs and more, I think, the Ministry of Finance and the vaults dating back to April 2016. At that time, the Management Board discussed certain excise duties but could not agree. Some amendments were subsequently made, and the law that lies before us today is not the same as the law on which the Governing Board has decided. So I'm asking you not to skip what's a legal obligation, to get all three laws back. Therefore, I do not dispute that these laws should be passed, but I argue that the law should be broken and that without a decision of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority, these laws should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14215	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14216	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the SDS Club, I propose to include under regular number 18 the agenda point – Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the Study of Origin of Functions in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 19 In fact, I really want to believe that there are most colleagues in this House and most of the political parties that are for the rule of law and for us to finally make a difference between ourselves. I don't want to accept it, and we'll never accept that all politicians are corrupt. And this kind of law we need to clear up and see who's really corrupt, who's increased his assets in four years and can't prove its origin and build, so legal mechanisms to confiscate illegally acquired property. We believe that the team would solve many other problems, thus creating an ambience that there is a political will in this country to fight corruption and that corrupt politicians do not manage both judicial institutions and investigative bodies. We could, we have a solution, unfortunately in Republika Srpska there was no political will to resolve this issue and to clear these up, and we could have suggested such a similar solution here, but we want this solution to really be a fruit of consensus for everyone and everybody to take active participation, not to be the subject of politics that we might suggest here something that won't have enough hands. We're asking for your support that we all do something together to bring good to this country, but we're not all the same, we're not all corrupt, and let's make a difference to see who's corrupt, who can't prove the origin of their property, and that the state takes away that property nicely. We have nothing against it, the chairman of Bosić will be the one, here's a law, which will first prove the origin of his property along with the members of the Kolegijum, so let's go from the Council of Ministers. We don't have that problem. And I ask my colleagues, here is the conclusion that other political parties are proposing their members and that this Interresor Working Group finally comes to us by the end of the year with the proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14217	Thank you. Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't have the wrong quote, but it takes a club of MPs of the SDP 15 minutes to take a stand on the proposed agenda points. I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14219	A 15-minute break. Please take your seats to continue the session. So, we have suggestions for a change and an addition to the agenda. The first was Mr Ahmetović, who sent an initiative to replace Foreign Minister Igor Crnadko. The College took the initiative and put it in the process and it will be treated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we don't have a vote on that part of the agenda. The second point, the second proposal for a change, is the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović, on which we will plead. _________(?) 20 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14224	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14225	A supplement, okay. I'll take it very well, please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Denis Bećirović. _________(?) Can we do it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14228	The MP didn't suggest anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14229	Well, it's not, but where do we put it in the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14230	Before, before the ratification.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14231	So what's the agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14232	Ratifications come to you, like this, so the ratifications come to 20, you get...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14233	So that's going to be the 20th point, and the ratifications go to 21st and 22nd place. Dušanka Majkić's proposal to take down three points of the agenda will not be voted on because these are mandatory points of the agenda, so we do not have the opportunity to take it down according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14234	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14235	That, you know, we got a proposal from the Council of Ministers, not any previous body. What do you want, a correction to the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14238	Therefore, the Council of Ministers takes decisions on a proposal from the Management Board of Direct Taxation, and this is not a proposal from the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14239	Okay, we have received an initiative from the Council of Ministers, which is a mandatory item of the agenda under the Rules of Procedure, and we will vote further on urgency and, depending on whether it will go urgently in the procedure, on the laws themselves. 22 So, we have another proposal for a Member of Parliament, Aleksandra Pandurević, on the establishment of a commission to prepare the proposal for a law on the examination of the property of officials, elected funkconners in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or whatever the formulation is. That's the conclusion. Please prepare for the vote. 27 for, against 3, abstention 6. There's a general and entity majority. Where are we going to put the dot?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14240	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14241	So that's going to be the 21st point, and the ratifications are going to be the 22nd and 23rd points. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 32nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th and 6th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 3. Comments on questions received; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-1853/16, of 07/07/2016; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending the Law on the indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-1854/16, of 07/07/2016; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplement of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, Law No: 01,02-02-1-855/16, of 07.07.2016; 7. The request of MPs Borislav Bojić, Nermina Kapetanović, Lazar Prodanović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović to discuss the proposal for an addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to the urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1788/16, of 28.06.2016; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1417/16, since 13/05 (second reading); 9. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on a Prosecution Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, since 18.03.2016; 10. Proposal for a Law on Volunteer Activities organised by associations and foundations, churches and religious communities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1187/16, since 27.06.2016 (first reading); 11. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – submiter: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01,02-37-1581/16, from 01.06.2016; 23 12. Annual consolidated report on the financial management and control system for 2015 – submiter: Ministry of Finance and Tezorje BiH, issue: 01,02,03-16-11778/16, since 18.05.2016; 13. Information on the state of emigration, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Act No 01,02-42-1590/16, 02/06/2016; 14. Information on the implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Programme for Housing Management with Reasons – Prosecutor: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Act No 01,02,03-21-1560/16, of 27.05.2016; 15. Information on the state and phenomena of peer violence and violence among children in Bosnia and Herzegovina – submitr: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Act No: 01-37-1743/16, from 22.06.2016 (Realisation of Parliament's Initiative and Conclusions adopted at 24th session, held on 03.02.2016); 16. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January – December 2015 – applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Act No: 01,02,03/03/14-16-1745/16, of 22.06.2016; 17. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 15.06.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge that, no later than 90 days after the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the report on the implementation of the Agreement establishing Bosnia and Herzegovina's public corporations (Anex 9. The Dayton Peace Agreement), with a proposal for an action plan for the application of that Agreement, shall act No 01-50-1-1694/16; 18. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-341/15, of 04.03.2016); 19. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' vacations and road registration devices (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-134/15, from 01.03.2016); 20. Discussion on the letter intends to the International Monetary Fund – Proposer of the point: MP Damir Bećirović, material number: 01-50-1-1956/16, since 15.07.2016; 21. Conclusion on the establishment of the Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the Study of Origin of Functions in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-34-1959/16, since 15.07.2016; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC International Development Fund (OFID) – Rural Entrepreneurship Development Project, Act No: 01,02-05-2-1763/16, of 23.06.2016; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Grant (The Gradac Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP "Communalac" d.d. Gradac and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Act No: 01,02-05-2-1770/16, of 24.06.2016; 24. Giving consent to ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank on the Regional Housing Programme – BiH4 (2015)) Act No 01,02-05-2-1826/16, of 04.07.2016. This concludes the adoption of the agenda. Moving to the first item of the agenda, 24 Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 32nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina You got the record, any objections? Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and the vice presidents and all present. So, I would only suggest one amendment to the 32nd session, on page 5, which mentions my comment on the answers received, namely behind the words – Nikola Lovrinović commented on the resulting response from BHRT. So, I'd put – he didn't comment. So, I haven't commented on BHRT's received response because I haven't yet received a response from Federal Television after which I'm going to state the final position, and since the question has been asked to all public broadcasters. So, I suggest you add that to what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14244	All right, we'll adopt that as your authorization and we'll vote on the record along with that amendment. Any other suggestions for a change of record? If there isn't, we'll move on to the next point, Ad. 3. Comments on questions received Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil is that on the previous one? Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14246	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14247	Just a second, please. Let's read this to whoever had it all. So, in accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House asked MPs: Salko Sokolović asked the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Office for Law and the College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; Senad Šepić asked two questions and addressed one initiative to the Council of Ministers; Damir Arnaut asked 12 questions to the foreign trade and economic relations ministry; Dušanka Majkić asked the chairman's Council of Ministers. The following answers were delivered to today's session: Senad Šepić's questions, which were asked in writing at 29, 30 and 31st session, the answer was delivered to the Council of Ministers; the question of Mirsad Đonlagić, which Demirović asked in oral form at the 29th session and the questions asked in written form at the 30th session, the answer was delivered by the Council of Ministers, and the questions asked in 25 written form at the 31st session, the Government of the Federation of BiH forwarded the answers to the Federal Fund for the assistance of natural disasters in the territory of the Federation, the Federal Ministry of Spatial Planning and the Federal Administration of Civil Protection; the question of Damir Arnaut, asked in the written form of the 29th session, and the question Šefik oral Safer of the 31st session, the Minister's question was provided by Nikola Lovrinović, asked in written form of response to the 27th question by the Minister of the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council of Parliament's response to the Commission's Salko to the Sokolović question. Who wants to comment? We've got Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14248	I thank the chairman. In April, I addressed to the Honorable Council of Ministers the issue originally in oral form, as the chairman did not attend three sessions when questions were asked in oral form. I asked him to deliver it to me in writing, so I asked you, as a College, did you forward this question to send the honourable chairman a written reply to me, will I get an answer and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14249	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14250	I thank Mr. Džaferović. So I got an answer from the Ministry of Human Rights of the Council of Ministers. Namely, I can't say right now that I'm satisfied or dissatisfied, namely I didn't get the answer until the end, because only the Ministry said in response to me that in the case of Mrs Filipović, whose rights are obviously at risk, so to living care as displaced persons within the municipality of Novo Sarajevo here in Canton of Sarajevo, they are talking in this response about some other actions being taken and waiting for a real answer from certain institutions. I can thank myself for the engagement, therefore, both the Ombudsmans and the Ministry who are taking it in that case because it is obvious that 20 years, therefore, the person Filipović was discriminated against in relation to the resolution of his residence status as a consequence of the war all these 20 years, and I hope that I, because they themselves said in their response to me to provide a later answer when they get their answer from certain institutions, that is, when they carry out certain actions. I'd also take advantage of this, and I expect it, and hopefully I'll get it, and then eventually I'll comment on it, that when I say it in detail. 26 When it comes to this, I would still take advantage of this opportunity, because I have so much time to say that I have not yet received an answer from federal television as the Public TV Service, which I have asked the question when it comes to editing and broadcasting programs in official languages. I expect you to have a full picture. I hope you'll direct the emergency to get it. And, of course, I don't know which way from the D.A.'s office to five, six, so I didn't get the questions, but if it's going to be the next session, this, since it's the first one in August, so if it's going to be in front of the public, then I'll probably ask the public why it's not answering the questions, and today we've had more cases, so from other institutions that don't answer the questions asked by the MPs. So I'll use it when I ask the cameras then to answer the D.A.'s office why he's not answering questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14251	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion on this agenda. We're going to point four, that's Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, is the law No 01,02-02-1-1853/16, of 07/07/2016. Here's a suggestion for the Honorable Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Krišto, to suggest that points 4 and 5 and 6 be discussed together and conduct a unique discussion of the procedure, because all three are proposed by emergency procedure and are connected. Please state whether you're in favour of these points 4 and 5 and 6 being united when it comes to the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So with 21 votes for, 6 against, 9 abstentions, with a sufficient ethnic majority we adopted this initiative to consider points 4, 5 and 6 together when it comes to the urgency of the procedure, i.e. to hold a debate together, to bring the debate together. Ad. 4th, Ad. 5th and Ad. Six.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14254	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I welcome you. Namely, you have witnessed that for several months we have been listening and reading through the media that there will be a proposal to amend and supplement the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, it takes several months and we today have a request to consider amendments to this Act by emergency procedure, i.e. Take it or leave it. Accize refers to an increase, meaning excise duties on oil and petroleum products, gas, etc., with regard to the allocation of highway construction funds. For a reason, I am potential – which is why it is urgent if we have listened and read for several months that it will come to this, and we today need to make a statement just take it or leave what someone has prepared without having analytical bases. Why am I saying this? Because the construction of highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina was supposed to be completed on Corridor 5C, so the 5C highway should be completed by 2018. Here we live in 2016, we have two more years and Bog knows when and how the 5C highway will end. This certainly has to do with the urgency of the procedure, because this is a serious question and we constantly have ad hoc solutions that come to us in an emergency procedure take or leave. And of course if you vote against it then some people are mad at you because there you are not in the reform course of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., etc. I do not want to be irresponsible to those I represent, I want to be seriously approached by this solution, by a comprehensive solution to the amendments and the addition of the Excise Act, I want it to be known that someone gives me an analysis to know how much this will affect the increase in prices of products consumed by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't have anything here. And that's why I'm saying that emergency procedures are unpopular at least, especially on this matter. We, as the Transport and Communications Committee, have asked the competent ministry to deliver an Action Plan for the construction of highways. We are witnessing to constantly force the construction of the highway on the route, here is Sarajevo – Mostar, or Sarajevo – to say so. Why? In order for someone to go to sea in an hour and a half, is it rather than taking more care of the economy, of the economy, which is based on the EU? All our transport routes lead to the EU, and no one seems to have even a proposal for an idea solution to the construction of the highway on this section from, here Zenica to the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. There isn't. Why isn't there? Is someone consciously obstructing the construction of this section of the highway? That is why I say that this approach to solving the ad hoc system, including the Law on Excises, is very much affecting the lives of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think 28 is unacceptable. That's why I think you should at least give us a decent explanation of why this was proposed by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14255	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lorvinović, discussion. Please discuss the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14256	So, I'll try, maybe Mr. Mehmedović said some part of the truth when it comes to procedure. Namely, if someone should be afraid of speed and rapid procedures, it's us from Central Bosnia, so we could open up a story here, too, why we didn't invest in the Federation railways, or in the fast roads, or in the semi-roads, but those are colleagues, our predecessors brought it as a strategic project. And I was at the College yesterday as president of the Club, so I was able to ask Mr. Zvizdić a question of urgency and perhaps express my disdain, which is so, however, after a later wit, so to speak, which I have tried to reach, I heard that perhaps yesterday a little lacked at the College, or I may not have understood enough, that European financial institutions require the Council of Ministers to make available the funds that are operational to continue the construction of the highway must therefore be intervened in this Excise, or Excise Act and that they must be reserved in a special account of funds for, therefore, the construction of the road, in order to be operational for those who have already been approved to us. When I heard that, then I simply, in a way, changed my attitude and I think we should support the procedure. If there is already something needed to further clarify, perhaps a shortened procedure would be sufficient, of course I will support any, because I have received such convincing evidence, therefore, that this is the case, although with part of what Mr Mehmedović agrees. Perhaps... other colleagues are thinking, but we simply came to this and it is therefore related to other documents such as the letter of intent, that by the end of September we must, therefore, manifest ourselves about it as Parliament to continue where we left off. Now, what's more harmful or beneficial now is that we can talk here. And I am a man who has been persuaded to talk, so what kind of a man who has been foolishly acting and putting in a situation and Parliament and some serious projects we have entered, and I am sorry that this is the case. If I had been a Parliamentarian a few seven years ago, eight years ago, we might have had a completely different development of the highway for Bosnia and Herzegovina and our economy, etc. than some other kind of road infrastructure development, but there it is. So, therefore, here I was in some way obliged to, first of all, members of the College to state their position and I think it's okay. Is it possible that we can agree that it should be a shortened procedure, so to resatisfy, by the end of September, we can still bring these legal solutions, I don't know, but it seems to me that these legal solutions need to be passed, and that's why I got up to say it, so loudly. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14257	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bećirović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14258	29 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14259	I'm sorry, Damir. Mr. Predrag Kožul is correcting the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14260	At least at this stage of the debate, when we talk about the urgency of the procedure, I did not want to report, but I still have to correct the interesting but incorrect allegations of fellow Mehmedović, about how to form a highway in the south from the north. We all know that most miles of highways on Corridor 5C are made from Tarchin's moves to Zenica and no one is questioning it. At this point, the works take place or are agreed on two shares located north of Zenica, a section of the highway on Corridor 5C north of Zenica and the bridge near Svilaj, that is what is agreed. For that part of the highway where the tender procedure has been carried out long ago, there is an obstruction in the move south of Mostar about the signing of the construction contract. And we who live in the south of the country live in this country and deal with economies, businesses, and we need access to the north of the EU, and we can only achieve this approach through Corridor 5C in a way that builds this Corridor on our entire move, and on that move that is around Mostar.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14261	I once again warn of the need to conduct a debate on the procedure, don't, I'll start to intervene, but I'm obliged to give my word. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14262	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's exactly what you just said I was going to say, so I wouldn't say it again. And just to say to those who have discussed it so far, everyone has been discussing who is along Corridor 5C. Among the 16 strategic projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no central Bosnia infrastructure, and that is what we should talk about, but I will say it later. And we very interestingly support the emergency procedure and support the proposals of these acts that are listed in these three members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14263	Thank you very much. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14264	Look, I don't slow down the need for any part of the highway even if it's out of Corridor 5C. Remember that we have a situation where we have a completely communication cut off, so to speak, a part in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Bosnian Krajina. They also have a right because they pay excises, and they have a right to a happy journey, if that's what they can say. However, it is not ours in Parliament to define what is strategic and what is not, at least not this ad hoc. That is why we need someone to make a basis for what is the priority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is why, why, why, why, etc., and of course to convince us here, and especially to tell us in one speedy way – you need to increase the excise and the finished story. I don't think that's right. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14265	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14266	Well, here's what I'm going to try to stick to, what you said, to the extent that Mr. Đonlagić held on to. So there's no reason here for urgency, no reason to adopt a law like this. This is urgent only because of what is in the letter of intent, means that the Parliamentary Assembly will approve an increase in excise duty on fuel. So the only emergency is to withdraw funds from the IMF and shut down budget gaps. This is what you have on page 8. Letters of intention by the Council of Ministers, the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation, and that is the only urgency. There's no urgency here. On the other hand, we have seen that it is not even in line with this bill's proposal, meaning, with the single rules for the creation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. If I were to be as explicit as my colleague Novaković right now, I would ask for it to be done properly in Bosnian, because we see that the termologically is not done, consistent with the Bosnian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14267	Thank you very much. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Pointed to Mr Bećirović, Damir Bećirović, on what he said about urgency. So, the Rules of Procedure are very clear there, the Proposer can in writing ask the House to propose a high degree of urgency law, I believe that this is very well explained, which is why the high degree of urgency, or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected completely, is considered in one reading. So it's an emergency, it's an emergency procedure when you have satisfied one of these two. According to the SBB Club, both are satisfied, but here, if Mr Bećirović believes there is no urgency, and there is, then what about this part that the law, the bill is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected completely in one reading. So look how short this Law is, so it meets all the elements that the Rules of Procedure prescribes. Therefore, any discussion against the emergency procedure here has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, has exclusively to do with your need to remove further these issues that are on the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14269	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14270	This is not the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the way of borrowing Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, if we're going to do this, the law isn't so easy to formulate, because here we don't see where the percentages are going to be distributed from excise taxes to the Brcko District, to Republika Srpska, to Federation 31 BiH. When you put it in this law, then we can also talk about it. That's one of the key questions we need to know. When we know that oil and oil imports are taking place, e.g. 3 liters are imported into the Federation of BiH, in Republika Srpska 1 liters and spent, but you did not state in this law the percentage of the distribution of these revenues.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14271	Thank you very much. Mr. Staša Košarac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14272	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we are aware of the fact that the amendments to the Excise Act are part of the economic agenda that has passed here the procedure and that there is an agreement with the European financial institutions and Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, and that is quite unquestionable. Given that big dilemmas have been opened here from the very content of the Law, which has been delivered here, and our clear position that the Law has been broken that the Administrative Board of Direct Taxation is not a formal proposal to the Council of Ministers, or that the Governing Board has not made a decision, we believe that the best solution would be that today do not vote on the Law in an emergency procedure but that, if possible and if there is a mood here in Parliament, the law should return to the regular procedure, noting that, according to the information we have, the deadline with the European Investment, financial organisations is 30.09. So we don't see any reason for any urgency. I think there's enough possibility that through regular procedure, first of all, you're treating the position of the Management Board of indirect taxation and of course you're using all the business opportunities to adopt this law here in the House of Representatives. Therefore, I suggest that if there is a possibility that we should return this Law to regular procedure and then proceed further to its amendments under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14273	Thank you very much. Sir, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14274	Well, I just want to clarify some things here, given that very often there is a reference here to the position of the Management Board of indirect taxation, and there is no talking about what the problem is, and it is time to say what the problem is. The problem is, for some people here, there are no taxes on beer in this law. As far as the SDS MPs' Club is concerned, we will never accept such excise duties until the reform agenda is fulfilled, which is the restructuring of health insurance funds, because in the purpose of the excise duties that are to go for that purpose, and until then, since the combined economic capacities in Banja Luka are destroyed, from Čajevac, Cosmos, the only thing that works and employs people is Banja banjalučki brewers, we will do everything we can to protect its interests until then. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14275	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14276	Well, I've got to fix up my colleague Pandurević, and here's the house and the excises and the beer, so all the alcohol, they'll come in September, so you know. You have this on page 9.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14278	So, I can't believe I have to explain something that I think I made quite clear and called the law members, I didn't read them, I could do that. So, colleague Pandurević, don't find things where they're not there, so I said explicitly, and if you don't already know the law, take it and inform yourself that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is a proposing to the Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers on the basis of his proposal to make a decision. It cannot make decisions on the basis of a proposal from the Directorate for Direct Taxation. And we barely passed that law, and that jurisdiction was passed by Republika Srpska in agreement, but it's obvious that things are happening that we're going to have to think about whether we did it right when we transferred that jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14279	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14280	Well, it is true that the Board of Directors of indirect taxation has also proposed excise duties on beer and tobacco because the Republika Srpska Health Insurance Fund was destroyed and that Minister Tegelti wanted to fill a hole.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14281	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14282	Well, that's why, Mrs. Majkić, after the correction of both Mr. Tegeltija and Mrs. Cvijanović were told – do the reform agenda commitment, it's a restructuring of the Health Insurance Fund and then you can increase the excise duties rather than use excise duties to patch up budget gaps. It is the essence of Mrs. Majkić, that so much has destroyed the Health Insurance Fund that you are also the last economic capacity in Banja Luka, the Banja Luka brewery, ready to destroy. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14283	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14284	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Zvizdić, esteemed ministers, journalists, guests. They usually say we said hello, and what we're discussing is hard to pass on, no one can carry on alive. But I hope that it will remain a written clue and that when it hits the head, why what we're saying here is a fuluid that, as our people say, enters one ear, comes out through another, and eventually the result is flat zero. Since we're talking about procedure, the urgency of procedure, the integrity of the law's solution is something to seek. What, of course, I have to say what they said now, because they said what I wanted to talk about, so I don't want to run away from it. We have a legally regulated ban on advertising alcoholic beverages and we don't have beer. However, beer... _________(?) ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]] We increase excise duties, increase excise duties, increase excise duties on the food product, to food, and it is very interesting that everywhere in the world is treated as a food product. And when it comes to excise goods, then you need to be very careful. You have those who are lawyers, and there are a lot of them here, who know what traditional law is, or what is the right that is true in one environment. And it's not the same for the environment we live in and for Sweden. It is not the same for Eski and Bosanac and Hercegovac, nor is it the same in Gabon as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the inheritance right. And we, and what is in tradition, will undertake what is called something called ultimately a part that is taxed through, that is to say, its price increases and it makes it impossible for citizens to access through excise duties. But don't lie to the devil, it's not a fol, it's just that we're destroying ourselves by increasing excise duties. You should consider whether this should go into emergency procedures like this or go into regular procedures, so that the problem called excises should be fully solved, and that all those who know the material of the faiscal and parafiscal burdens that the final consumer finally pays. That's what I was talking about. They say there is no double taxation, the citizens are quadrupled. Importer pays at the place of import, wholesaler when issuing goods...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14286	Please, we're talking, so we're talking, sir... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14287	in retail, and all of this finally gets a bad citizen.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14288	Sir, Mr. Backović, we're talking... 34 ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14289	It's not, thank you, and it's not VAT 17%, it's 17 times 3. He's got so much to do with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14290	Thank you. So, please don't let me interrupt you, the Rules of Procedure of this House will be respected as much as, among other things, you MPs in your conduct will help to respect him. Do not honor the Rules of Procedure only for the president's reactions, we are colleagues. I'm asking you only to discuss the procedure. Mr. Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present in the hall. Here I am. I mean, here's the problem with bad practice going on. Bad practice of the Council of Ministers to provide us with laws of urgency in parliamentary procedure, and this is not the first law, not this second, not this third, this is not the third, this is not the order of the law. What's the point? The bottom line is, through such procedures, the words of the MPs are kind of, uh, put off, we don't have the right to debate, or we can discuss it a little bit, but we can't do some corrections. All those who send us these laws in this procedure forget that we are the People's MPs. Here, I want to remind us all here that we are MPs, we are not MPs or international monetary institutions. Maybe someone did, but here's the thing I'm not, and I want, not only this bill, but all the other... projects I'm discussing and making certain suggestions, to participate in the realization of it. Well, they're not there at the Council of Ministers, in international monetary institutions, the smartest people, so I guess the people here chose us not only to be similar or to the people, but because we have some kind of mind. So I want to discuss all these legal projects at least, not to argue that these solutions are good or bad, but I want it to be through debate or a certain correction... the solutions officially say, not take my word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14292	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14293	I would like to quote, 29th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly since 11/05, the request of MP Salke Sokolović, etc., to consider the draft law amending the law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, Law No: 01-02-1-1265/16. So much for consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14294	Thank you. Mrs. Mensura Beganović, discussion. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14295	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. If we are... discussing the way this set of laws is adopted by emergency procedure, I would only show my dissatisfaction that we are talking at all about such an urgent procedure, which is quite confusing, which does not have the support of the Directorate for European Integration, has quite an objection to the compliance of this Act with European legislation and, for one other very, very important reason for me, very important reason why we are not so prone to adopting strategies, such as the Traffic Development Strategy, a traffic strategy that would solve some of the sources for financing the construction of roads, a travel network in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are ready to introduce exciseities that will burden our businesses, our passenger and freight transport operators, who are mildly speaking, on their knees already. So personally, I don't think it makes any sense, and we don't support it, neither I nor my DF colleagues support this way of adopting this set of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14296	Thank you. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14297	Well, here's one kind of correction from my distinguished colleague Arnaut who calls himself to the Rules of Procedure very regularly, especially when you were chairing. I have one of my notebooks that I unfortunately forgot, at every session he warned about breaking the Rules of Procedure, now he is calling for, in the European way, a flossule which, in the coalition, is the ruling coalition, this, very well known, European path, which would mean by this, since the SBB is clearly committed to the urgency of this procedure, is that Article 105, and the zakonodavno-pravni sector has given its opinion even if the proposal for this law did not comply with the Unique Rules, Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives have been violated in all and one attitude. So, here I call on my colleague to be consistent with his call for respect for the Rules of Procedure, and whether the European pathway of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in fact a violation of the procedures of the highest legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14298	Thank you. Please, I don't see any more charges for the hearing. I would if you could give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14299	Here, fellow deputy, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14300	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. So, it's not exactly like that, I'd say, the simple thing that, at least from your discussions, is so simple, and it can wait so long that we can open up 36 regular procedures and deny, therefore, this emergency procedure. If the arguments of these laws are read, and we were at a session of the Extended College yesterday, we also had the opportunity to hear from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, then we will conclude that it is still much more serious things that are related to the overall progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular the further construction of highways on Corridor 5c and the maintenance and construction of other roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would ask you to take care of this, and I would also ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is present here, if he doesn't mind, for this speaker to be given clarification to the MPs so that an appropriate decision can be made. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14301	I thank my fellow deputy. Here, at this point we should plead, so, about the urgency of the procedure of these three laws. I'd like to point out more, so before our colleague comes back to the presidency, so before the chairman of the Council of Ministers takes a word, we're going to take a short break, maybe five minutes, here at the agreed position of us from the College. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14302	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you all. Let me say a few words about the importance of these laws and the importance that they are being considered and, hopefully, adopt exactly in accordance with the procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Before that, I want to remove certain dilemmas that have occurred in the current discussion, which is who and what competences there are in the proposal of such laws. Therefore, it should be made very clear that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is the one who proposes politics, that the Council of Ministers of BiH is responsible for policy in this area and the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, according to the law, directly for its work to the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the Directorate for Direct Taxation is the one who implements the policy, i.e. implements the laws established and adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the proposal of the Council of Ministers. All these procedures are very clear in the complete process here and you today have a set of laws that treat the issues in question and that are important from several aspects. I'll just say a few of the most important. First of all, we are talking about the importance of adopting these laws from the aspect of respecting the contractual commitments and ensuring the necessary funds for orderly service under numerous loan agreements with the EBRD and other international financial institutions, in order to continue the planned dynamics and planned completion of projects related to the construction of road infrastructure throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. to increase the effectiveness of the realisation of these loans and to enable instruments for the implementation of the contractual commitments already achieved and, of course, to continue the dynamics of the construction of the highway that is done very evenly and of course there is no talking about the potential of any area of Bosnia and Herzegovina or any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On route 5c, which is a pan-European corridor and whose route cannot be changed now because it has been established long ago there are only those shares that are not interested in any concessionary by their performances in view of the configuration of the terrain through which the highway is passing through Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for those shares, Bosnia and Herzegovina is in charge on the basis of those in charge of the construction of highways and we will have to do so ourselves. And of course individual shares that, based on perfomansi, car flow, etc., can be very interesting to the concessionaries and will certainly go into 37 concessions. Therefore, it is a balanced approach, a project approach, and ultimately the entire highway is actually on a high degree of maturity of the project documentation so that it can go into its final performance. The other important thing about these laws is that the proposed law determines both the excise on biofuels and biodiversity and I ask that we keep that in mind. So, I'm going to tell you only one piece of information that biofuels and biotech and, in 2013, 470,000 kilograms were imported, and 11 million kilograms were imported in the last year. So, in less than 2 years, that number, that amount is from 400,000, 470,000 has been increased to 11 million. Therefore, we are talking about the enormous growth in imports of biodiesel sold to end-users without its designation as biodiesel, i.e. it is either mixed or sold as diesel fuel, which is, of course, consumer deception. By adopting these laws, we prevent this further deception and, of course, introduce everything into legal frameworks. Therefore, I think it is very important that these laws are considered in accordance with the procedures proposed by the Council of Ministers, that this will increase the financial capacity of BH institutions, i.e. public enterprises dealing with highway construction, and this certainly applies to highways and fast roads. So, all levels of government have adopted their transport strategies and there you will find, of course, very clear action plans for construction, not only of the highways, but also of the fast and master roads and in Brcko District, and in the Federation, both in Republika Srpska and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The dilemmas that we have regarding projecting the impact of excise duties on prices in Bosnia and Herzegovina, let's say this opportunity at basic prices, should then be taken into account the following data, that in July 2015 the price of barrels was $60, in January 2016 27, so it fell by almost three times the price of oil per barrel, and in July this year 45 dollars. Have the prices of life supplies been followed by such large variations in oil and oil prices? No, I don't. So, even at the moment when the price per barrel was $60 and when it was 27 fluctuations and variations in the price of living foods ranged up to 0.5% index points. Therefore, it is very important, and here I call you before the Council of Ministers, but not only in front of the Council of Ministers, because this is the interest of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, these funds have their own direct purpose, so they are directly presented to public enterprises, entity public enterprises and Brcko District for the construction of highways, highways and fast roads based on adopted strategies and action plans related to the construction of infrastructure. Without developed infrastructure, without highways, without fast highways, it is impossible to talk about... and the accelerated economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Good and quality infrastructure is a prerequisite for fast economic development, for the flow of goods, people and capital, of course we all know that here, and these laws are precisely in the function of such accelerated construction, planned construction of highways, but also fast and highways on the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is how much I thank, of course, all those who will vote, that is to say, I call on everyone to really support this Council of Ministers' decision, because the pro-longing of such a decision, given the fact that annual holidays are coming and that September goes as a pre-election month in which there is usually no Parliament would mean that these laws would probably not be adopted by the end of the year, thereby jeopardising the contracts reached for the construction of road infrastructure throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14303	Thank you, Chairman. 38 Correction of the false quote, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14304	So, Honorable Chairman, I understand, I understand your need to explain that all procedures have been completed, but I also cannot understand how it is possible that there is no evidence of that. So no one shows any evidence. Obviously something happened, so at random the Council of Ministers made a decision without a proposal from the Management Board. We've had too many bad experiences lately. After the census, this is the next attack on the institution we have adopted together to be an institution at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't need experiments like this. If the law goes into the ordinary procedure, we will allow that document to be obtained and the Management Board to make a decision. If there's a problem with the board of directors and some decision won't make, it means that there are reasons to discuss it, but don't say that he's been through all the procedures when we know he's not. So it's really not right to say what doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14305	Thank you. Mensura Beganović... MIRO
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14306	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14307	Will you do it now or when, after the question is finished? MIRO
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14308	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14309	Here you go, Mr. Džakula.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14310	Thank you very much. If I may, with that answer, I would briefly refer to the facts of the activities that took place in the adoption of this law. Therefore, at the 8th and 9th session, the Management Board adopted the Proposal to amend the Excise Act, the Excise Act, the Unequal Taxation System Act and the Single Account Payment Act. These other two laws are about the Excise Act. The Management Board, therefore, forwarded the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 14. The law on the system of indirect taxation. Such proposals for the Council of Ministers' legislation, given that, in accordance with the Law on an indirect taxation system, it was in charge of indirect taxation policies, adopted on its discussion the laws given by the Administration to clear them. The administration delivered them to the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, which forwarded them to the parliamentary procedure. So I think in this part, I'm afraid because of maybe some misinformation or non-coordination and ignorance of the Council of Ministers' conclusion, I think there's been this misunderstanding. I think it is everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest to adopt these amendments to the Excise Taxation Act as soon as possible and in an emergency procedure. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14311	Thank you. Mensura Beganović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14312	I thank the chairman. So, I would correct the quote that was listed here as an explanation for the adoption of such a law, the introduction of excise duties on biofuels. The reason that the increased imports of biodiesel are by, let's not count now, by 20 or not, is not the reason that it is in line with, otherwise with the Action Plan on the Agenda, which says that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have appropriate customs reliefs and their alignment with the renewable energy policy by 2020. So we introduce excise duties on something that we have committed to the Action Plan to facilitate and increase use in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's two things that are opposite. I think that increasing imports of biodiesel is something that should not be solved in this way and the abuse of that fuel, we have inspection bodies for it, we have the Consumer Protection Act through which we need to address this problem, not by introducing excises to equate the use of renewable and non-renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14313	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14314	I wouldn't want to go into a dialogue here, of course, but I don't think you should mix things up that can't be mixed, it's like oil and water to you. What I know to this day, no one has ever stopped concessions from taking concessions, but we've been very skillfully avoiding them, and we've got what we've got. You know that... he came with a 500 million dollar guarantee so the highway was given to Bjuik who didn't bury the meter. So..., brought a 500 million dollar guarantee for the highway, the Sarajevo-Zenica stock, a contract signed with the non-existent partner Bujik and blocked stock construction. Let's not bring and talk about potential concessionaries, because concessionaries break, legs break to get to Bosnia. That's one thing. The other thing is total traffic. I don't know, Mr. Džakula, you probably have a receipt, I'll give you the 2000 bill, in 2000, then I was the minister. In 2000, our cars were perpetumobiles. The small bill came up with the following data and today, so, don't forget, with a small bill, it means somewhere around 600 million at that time, that figure is still being held today, millions of liters needed to move what was at four and two points, engine engines, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 600 million liters. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, it is an emergency, but why should I... 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14316	Mr. Backović, come on, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14317	Total income was supposed to be 350 million from excises. That 350 million times 15 years all highways built. Where's the money? It's very simple.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14318	Mr. Backović, I let you speak, although it's not, be careful the debate is about the emergency procedure, and correcting the wrong assumption, you haven't corrected anyone about it, but okay. Educationally, you've done it educationally. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14319	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate that we are all credible here in some way, and given the fact that we have different types of information I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, and everything concerns the urgency of the procedure, that we share several open issues together, which is – did the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board make a decision of one substance, did the Ministry of Finance change that decision, did the Council of Ministers reach a conclusion where it asks to bring this decision into line with the Management Board, let us know, and is it in line? Fourth thing, why are we talking about this today, the importance and urgency and no finance minister? Is that why he doesn't have a finance minister? We wanted, wanted to make a constructive contribution fully aware of the importance and needs of amending the law... treated with several documents. This is obviously where the distribution is done, i.e. it's only trying to do it according to one segment. There were other segments, and the blue diesel was the topic of negotiating and negotiating in the Council of Ministers, about which he remains silent here today, the funds are mentioned. That is why the SNSD believes that the best way to get it back into the regular procedure is to have a deadline of 30.09. It is not true that Parliament cannot sit in September, it can, and we can pass the law within the foreseen deadline. I therefore appeal once again, given the more open issues, not to adopt the Law in an emergency procedure, but to return it to the regular procedure and to adopt this Law within the foreseen deadline, according to European financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14320	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14321	If this were urgent, as the chairman claims it is, and it is dramatic, as he claims it is, the finance minister and the minister of transport and communication would also be sitting here to help him explain the urgency and complexity of this problem together, and not so that the chairman himself, as if this was his personal project, is fighting for it, while the rest, I'm not sure that they're equally experiencing it. 41 Another thing, in the past two years, at least when it comes to the Federation and Republika Srpska, the shovel has not buried any on the highway construction, and there have remained significant funds that were provided earlier. So the argument that without this, there is no continuation of the path, I'm afraid it's not entirely correct. And if you want us to open up a topic about why nothing has happened in these two years, we can do that. However, the SDP Club will not be an obstacle to this going into an emergency procedure, so we will not be against it, but this is today a kind of test to show whether there is a parliamentary majority on this, as you say, of important issues, and whether this is going to pass today or not just to the parliamentary majority and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14322	So Minister Bevanda informed the College that he would be represented by Deputy Minister Žuga, who is present here. So, I'm finishing the debate. We're going to vote on an emergency procedure, we're not voting in a package, we're going to vote on points individually. Prepare to vote on emergency procedure for item 4. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, this is, look out the same, I mean, come on. There is, so there's no consent in the College to be together...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14324	...we don't have a club president here, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to consolidate to fill, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14325	Five.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14326	Five minutes, then. [[Common discussion]] I'm mourning a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14328	Five minutes off. All right, let's take the vote, and please give us some reasonable time from the end of the break to gather. This is already becoming more critical and more critical, if we say five minutes, let it be within the limits of some. I'm putting the motion to the vote, the re-proposal to join the vote on the emergency procedure for these three points, since it's the same issue, only then would it be a problem for some of this to pass and something to pass. Prepare to vote on a motion to unite the vote on these three points. So 29 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So 29 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There is an entity and general majority, we will vote on an emergency procedure Please prepare to vote on emergency procedures. For 12, against 16, abstentions 6. There's no general majority, so emergency procedure hasn't been adopted. Now we're voting on a shortened procedure. Prepare to vote on a shortened procedure on these three laws. For 18, v. 9, abstention 7. There's a general and there's an ethnic majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14330	Well-adopted short procedure, let's move on... go procedure, go commission, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14331	Wait if he's going...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14332	... The commission, of course, well, today nothing is over. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14333	Well, since the bill's going to go to the commission, we're continuing with the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. The request of MPs Borislav Bojić, Nermina Kapetanović, Lazar Prodanović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović to discuss the proposal for an addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to the urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1788/16, of 28.06.2016. In the explanation of the proposal for an addendum to the Rules of Procedure, it was stated that the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted the conclusion that MPs, delegates of the instructions 43 of that amendment to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, along with a proposal to be considered by an urgent procedure. You've got the material. At yesterday's meeting, the House decided to propose to the House a conclusion that reads: - The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly launched an initiative on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the Making of Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly to discuss the application of both Rules of Procedures to date all proposals and suggestions for amendments and additions, and to the House of Parliamentary Assembly proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedures of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses. All amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure will be submitted to the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for consideration. So, you've got the proposal for a conclusion. What's this about? We believe that amendments to the Rules of Procedure should be made on a number of issues and that today we should make a decision on the formation of a committee that will bring all these amendments together. We already have something in practice that we have changed in relation to the Rules of Procedure, for example. on the matter of reviewing the points of emergency procedure, there are still proposals, so the proposal from the College is to set up a committee to present a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, not only in this proposal, but in general. Now we're going to vote, is there actually a need for someone to comment on this? Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14335	The Honorable Chairman. In recent years, we have had two or three failed attempts to amend the Rules of Procedure. At the end of the last term, we were quite unexpectedly able to agree and work in a very good atmosphere and agree on changes that were very important at the time. Here I am looking, colleague Krišto was a member of this task force, Mr Džaferović did not but he helped us very much from the corner of the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, who also considered some changes and was made, I say, a significant step. But by then, we knew that there would be several things that, for which there would be a need to change again, without us being able to find a consensus at that point. And here, I am pleased that a few things have already been changed, that here is the Commission for Human Rights, that is, its members have their own proposal, but quite rationally, I also consider what you have proposed. And I will not only support, here are my colleagues from the club, but here I would like it if it is possible that this work of the future commission is taking place in that atmosphere where the work of the previous one took place and that some extra step is being made. So, support your proposal. I just don't understand if it rules out this proposal today or if we're going to discuss it, either way, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14336	We don't have any more logs. So this will go to the vote first as a conclusion, if the conclusion is adopted, so there's no need for an emergency procedure to be voted on otherwise around the initiative. We're going to point eight, 44 Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television System - Proposers: MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1417/16, since 13.05.2016 (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 6th emergency session of the House, held on 15.06.2016. The Commission for Transport and Communications submitted 13.07.2016. The bill's proposal report. The Commission adopted the draft law with eight amendments adopted. The amendments in the plenary phase were submitted by MPs Nikola Lovrinović and Staša Košarac. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14338	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Club, since the amendment promoter currently has an urgent meeting, please a half-hour break to be able to explain the renewed amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14339	Then an hour...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14340	As far as I'm concerned, it's 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14341	So, I'm taking a break until 14:15, which will also be lunchtime. Please, let's get back to work. We're at the 8th point of the agenda. Mr. Mirsad Mesic has been requested by the SDP MPs' club, and we have Mr. Mirsad Mešić reported here for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, this House has been working for years on how to finance the Radio Television System in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I have the impression that the sanas were created conditions for this Law to be passed and at least in the coming year to provide stable funding for the Radio-Television System in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course I mean not only BHRT but also entity broadcasters. Today it is up to you to discuss and propose amendments which are a group of MPs, which are made up of Mr Novaković, Mrs Hanka Vajzović and Mr Amir Fazlić, who is an attempt, or sublimation of all those discussions that were held at Parliament and amendments that were available during this process of delivering amendments. They are therefore a sublimation of all these desires and it seems possible to me a solution that will provide for the adoption of this Law. I urge my colleagues to really be 45, that by supporting the Law, whose components and amendments are proposed by a group of MPs, we support and thus eliminate at least this year the possibility of collapse of the BHRT system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14344	Thank you. Discussion, MP Momčilo Novaković. He's not here. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't know which time, so when this topic is on the agenda, one way or another, I'm trying to draw attention to the problem of non-compliance and non-implementation of the law that is in force, about the RTD system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, which, by accident, is, on purpose, the situation in which the Committee of the System has led to the financing, i.e. the functioning of the system, has come to this Parliament, so a good will has been used, above all, by the Committee on Transport and Communications to discuss this issue, and here we have come today to have, as counterpart Mešić said, some proposal that will resolve this issue. I've claimed it before, and now I'm saying it's not a solution to the question and that nothing has been solved permanently in this way. Unfortunately, I'm not obviously convincing and I'm not in a position and I don't have the opportunity and the power to end up being respected what I'm saying, but right now we need to tell the citizens, so, as you said again, I'm tying myself up to my colleague Mešić, that we need to be serious. We also need to be serious that we have passed a law that speaks of consumer protection and by passing this law we do not respect it. They must know, therefore, that we are in violation of the direct provisions of the Law that we have also passed, that two types of services cannot be laid out in one account. We're going to confirm it this way today, for nothing, that I have several times and at the Committee and here I'm talking about, obviously she wants to get rid of, as someone says, the primary problem. I have always argued and now I argue that Article 18 has given the Committee of the System the opportunity to resolve this issue all these years, as it has been said, of course not, I even suggested that the Management Board of the System, or BHRT, which we can do, disband, in order to disband the Committee of the System. Unfortunately, none of this has been accepted, and now we are ahead of a proposal, a solution to a temporary one, and this is a solution, because I have done so little, to say the more seriously, this is a solution that exists only in Serbia, in the Republic of Serbia, that through an electro-distributor, it is a fee, a fee, so nowhere else it is not working, but only in the Republic of Serbia. But here, maybe it's a model, and he has his shortcomings, and I'm sure this won't be a solution. That is why I have proposed certain amendments and somehow a more permanent solution for me and was ready to discuss that amendment and this solution in both the Committee and other ways, so if you want to do so here in Parliament, it is not accepted either. Even at the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I proposed a simplified approach to this solution, so I suggested that I set up an agency that would pick up a RTV tax and regulate its work by law. In order to make it more clear to my colleagues, I was in my amendments before I changed and proposed this amendment that is before you today and that I call on you to support it, it was my proposal that RAC and RTV services form this agency and that this agency would actually do its own work, collecting fees and dividing it, and thus achieve independence from the Council of Ministers, from Parliament, from anyone, independently of picking up money, independently would be responsible for it, and independently share it, if we could achieve one kind of 46 independence. Of course, if I was ready for that kind of structure of that agency to be different, it could be tied to the Council of Ministers as well as to the Ministry of Finance and entity finance, it could be tied through the Ministry of Transport and Communications and also entity. So, it can be formed in a variety of ways, but it would be an agency that deals with and monitors, so the creation of a commitment from beginning to end and if there are court complaints, etc. This way again, of course it won't be possible. On the other hand, I wanted to separate the notion of tv fees from binding to any tv service. So where does it say that the tax collected like this belongs to some particular tv service. It doesn't say that anywhere. This one, to put it that way, collects taxes for... TV receivers also serve public needs in the field of information as regulated by the state. So we put it silently, with the commodity that it's actually the money that belongs to these existing tv services, which doesn't necessarily mean that at all. So, I'm not sure if where we live more in the middle is informed by some local radio station private or county, I don't know, municipal, but public TV services, let's say, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or entity. I'm not sure who's telling us more about what we're interested in where we live. So I suggested in one part that one part of the funds up to 10%, so those broadcasters that are on public air can, too, get permission from the RAC, so that they can apply to those funds. All of these were, unfortunately, not enough arguments to accept such a single model. He could have been different, and then I, therefore, simplified the thing and I suggested it was regulated by a law that would have been brought here again and seen it done, because that agency can function the way it's actually only possible. And, of course, I will not support this Law, and I am sure that the same problems that we have now will quickly arise again, although I am appealing to the leadership of both colleges, or the extended College of both Houses of Parliament, that as soon as possible that conclusion on the formation of an interresor group is realized, let us see, therefore, what are the problems in the functioning of the existing law and that we are proposing some measures as we have come to the conclusion. I hope it's soon and we find a solution far more permanent than this. I don't think this is and unfortunately, therefore, I haven't come across understanding, but here I hope that this may be my brief explanation or clarification to you will be a reason to maybe support the amendment that I have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14346	Thank you. I'm limiting the hearing to five minutes. Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14347	Thank you. Ma, Mr. Lovrinović is right when he calls here the Consumer Protection Act, but he is wrong when the tv tax, which is actually... a classification in services. So, it's not about services, it's about a tv taxi, so this law is not contrary to the law we've passed in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14348	Thank you. Fehim Škaljić, discussion. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14349	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, the other members present, good afternoon to you. This example of the Law, which we are discussing today, shows the value of a two - stage procedure, and it needs to be our orientation. Two-phaseness allows us to have a wider discussion, intervention of that capacity that can significantly improve the offered course. That's what happened in this case. That proposal, which was submitted by Mrs Fazlić and Đonlagić, evolved at the stage of the second debate, we have today one provision which, in my opinion, meets the need to provide a more stable form of funding for public broadcasters. The concept of binding this to electro-distributive organisations allows for a bypass in a time that was very critical from the aspect of the threat and sustainability of the system for financial reasons. It is certainly limited by time of a year and... that period should take the Committee of the System to analyse the effects of this Law and inform this Parliament of what we should do to bring it finally to the level that must exist. That's why I'm going to support this thing, I think the promotion produced by the amendment phase has contributed to parity, and it allows us to have a sustainable concept of the tv system. It's not finished, it's not final, it doesn't have all its elements of ideal capacity, but it's certainly far better than what we were in until the back of the month when there was complete uncertainty about how it would continue. The TV system must be in our focus in the continuity of the time standing before us, even from the aspect of these amendments to the Law, because our obligations to this matter are not exhausted and this is why fellow MPs have indicated that there are shortcomings is what stands before us. But today I appeal that for the amendments standing on the table we give the green light to go into this process and ensure that the systems work, and we have a duty to further improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14350	Thank you, Mr. Škaljić. Predrag Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14351	Well, I won't say anything new in this discussion compared to what my colleague Lovrinović and I sometimes keep saying, that the partial and non-principled solutions concerning this Law will not solve any questions concerning the Public TV system or its financing. Only those solutions that will resolve other legal provisions under the basic law, which do not apply, from the corporation, to the issue of equal representation of language, culture and all other values of the constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina will not solve the issue of funding. I assume that these amendments adopted by the Commission will be what will eventually come out as the Bill's proposal so they focus on them and try to explain in detail what I am now saying that such a legal solution will not bring anything new in terms of the financing of the Public TV System, because this legal solution has the same systemic error as the existing Law. It is not only a question of whether or not it looks at whether this Law is in line with other legal decisions, specifically with the Consumer Protection Act, but also the question that such a system is charged by a kind of wooden iron, that BH Telekom will not have any obligation tomorrow to worry whether someone will pay a RTV fee or not, and normally we will be in the same situation. I will honestly admit here that I have three criteria in my name for electrical energy, three hours, that in some future time may be subject to the interest of this 48 Law, which my colleague Pandurević spoke of and proposed here, but tomorrow I will have to pay or be in charge of three TV fees if we consistently apply the paragraph (7) of Amendment VIII of this Act, but which says – TV tax is a mandatory element of the monthly bill for the supplied, i.e. spent electricity distributor. It doesn't say anywhere that one man only has to pay one TV fee, and I'm not the only one there, there are people who have more than three standards. How and to what extent all this will be resolved by some future regulation or clarification of this regulation, in which time the distribution will be resolved and what a mess from the application of this Law will be in future time is a question. But that this is a 12-month temporal character, not until tomorrow. See what item (11) of this same amendment I am talking about – the Public TV system of BiH, or the System Committee, is responsible for and will make every effort to establish. A legal solution formulating that someone will make every effort without a time limit to solve something means that one who should make every effort as well as so far will not solve anything. And this will legal solution there is a normally envisaged solution for it, he says – unless they make all the efforts and solve this too will continue, continue and continue. So we got the Law with the same systemic error as the existing Law, we got a law that will have terrible problems in application and will not contribute to better financing of the Public TV system.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14352	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14353	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This proposal that we have on the table first of all is a bold proposal. In fact, Parliament simply at one point found itself in a situation that under the pressure of management and committee, the Board of Directors of BHRT was making quick solutions to avoid what was said in that threat. In this way, the Committee of the System actually wanted to remove responsibility and transfer it to Parliament. And he was able to do so thanks to some of our colleagues who rushed faster to propose some law to prevent it. So when it comes to some kind of deadlines and I don't know, then we're practically pressed here, not by our will, but by some other conditions, to solve this issue in a way and in a quick way as we solve it. As we have already entered this procedure, it seems to me that this solution is the only solution that has had a chance to make some kind of compromise and to get Parliament's support in order, I repeat, to avoid what has been imposed on us as a problem. In the procedure and the debate on the law, we have come to a solution which most of the Commission has actually supported, so if you want most of them to propose through one group of amendments, thinking that such a solution can, I repeat, receive Parliament's support and prevent these threats that went towards Parliament. I am not sure that we will significantly increase the charge, and no one can say it with certainty now, one is a fact – the number of taxpayers will increase, so at the same rate the funds that are charged will be higher. If, of course, the percentage increases it will give certain guarantees to the services that they can do in the next period and perform the duty that they are formed for although, of course, I am not satisfied with the way they do it, or the policies they run, these services, nor the editorial, nor any other, but it is now a question for any other debate and any other discussion. 49 As for my personal position as a proponent of these amendments that have changed the essence of the Law that was proposed I will uphold the Law in the first round, and that I want publicly, so here to say. If no one from Republika Srpska from these two clubs supports it, he's not willing to support this law, I will, in the second round, not support this law. So, I don't change my mind about the law, I think the law is a solution at this point, but I don't want to accept the position of being the target to which all the tools and all the sides will be fired. Therefore, I would like to make it clear here that there is no dilemma about it, so I will change my view not of the law, but of the vote if no one in Republika Srpska supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14354	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14355	Well, I have a need to say that I am surprised by what I heard from Mr. Novaković, that this has been a rash proposal adopted under the pressure of management and the BHRT odbor. So I expected that the competent commission analysed all the possibilities and then it came as the best model, and not as a solution that came under the pressure of the Board of Systems and Management. And in addition to that, just when it comes to funding, or billing for a TV tax through Electrodistribution, or Elektroprivreda, I wondered how it was possible that no one would call and talk to elektroprivreda and ask if there was even the possibility that the case could be solved adequately. And then, since I do, I know some people in the Elektroprivred Republika Srpska -- what does that mean for you if you go tomorrow to charge a tv tax? And you know what the answer is – it is simply not possible. Why? Because when Telekom finishes the month, his digital counters go out on 01.01, and from that point on, they start measuring traffic by the end of that month. How's the electro-priority? There's still a digital far away, and when Elektroprivreda wants to get to see how much she got, she charged that month to send a bunch of her employees to peek through that window in an hour, to rewrite how much she was in charge, so by the time she got home, that, uh, they made the invoice, while they sent it, it was half a month ago. And when the subscriber, or the subscriber, comes to pay for the service, then on the counter, the question – how much, how much of this are you going to pay? Because it's not going month after month. How the Elektroprivreda is going to do that no one has asked here, we were happy to just solve this problem with ourselves, as the management of TV is trying to get rid of us so we tend to electro-prived. What will happen will only be seen if this law passes and comes toll by the Elektroprivreda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14356	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14357	Well, it's not really clear to me that now that it's like us, we don't know that the law has proposed two colleagues after we've reached a sustainable solution here. And then just under the pressure of that law, the commission sat down and solved how she handled 50. So, let's not, it's not right that now there someone is talking about the commission in a context like the commission has voluntarily entered into this, although I have to be honest that we have been on a voluntary basis discussing this at least five, six times, trying to come up with a solution that we haven't been able to find. As for the bill, of course no one asked, no one asked mobile phone operators whether or not they would, really, it's clear that, watch all this stuff you're talking about is a matter of contract, it's a matter of contract between service and Power distribution. So for that service you're talking about, people can charge up to 4%, so they can cover their expenses if they make a deal. I simply said – this is an attempt to find a solution that will bridge 12 months until a certain solution is reached. I personally think, if already, uh, and I've said it many times in public, that the only sustainable solution to the charge is through my own service. And that, in my opinion, is the only possible solution to this question, but that's what an inter-resor working group is going to take care of, which we're going to do. At this point, it seems to me that this is a possible solution. And now be careful if the power supply, so of course no one will be doing this voluntarily, nor will anyone, who would be happy to do this. But also someone has to do it or doesn't have to, so let's let it go to waste, as far as I'm concerned, I don't mind if this goes to waste and we make something different from the beginning. When it comes to it, the same procedure is when it comes to three, four, five, and I don't know watches like three, four and five phone numbers, so it's exactly the same procedure, you're going to Probably in some procedure to apply for release only for an hour, the rest of you will be freed as before, on one phone, nothing has changed in those relationships except, I repeat, what they... have suggested to do like this. [[Employee is warned on time]] I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14358	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14359	I thank the chairman. I'd say it's kind of a coincidence with what the distinguished colleague Majkić said, it seems we have our sources from the electro-prived world to think alike. There's something else she didn't say, which is that we should make contracts in case of this kind of charge, for example, only in Republika Srpska with 10 electricity companies, means ten contracts only in Republika Srpska, and in the Federation probably twenty, twenty and more. That it takes time, and it's almost impossible to reconcile the databases of subscribers and the owner of the counter, and not to mention that it's almost impossible to verify the delivery of the account, the collection, and the control of the bill is absolutely impossible. And then people told me what used to happen, when public companies were charging TV subscriptions in Republika Srpska, it happened that the director of the public service had shown a charge of 60%, and it was 90, that 30 had gone to the election campaign of the party that controlled the public company. And you can do it now, no problem at all. If anyone wants black funds for a public campaign, we certainly won't help Mr. Milinović help his party through RTRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14360	Thank you. Discussion, Staša Košarac. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14361	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I have to say that all the actors who sought to come to a solution have invested enough time and energy and that the goal was to provide financial stability for all three services and there is no dilemma, equal to the Board of Systems, the management of all three services and the Transport Commission. I think that a solution has been sought and I think that each of the MPs in the House of Representatives had the opportunity to influence, intervene and to say their proposal that it should charge a RTV tax, in which to distribute, and of course all jointly influence to find a legal solution that will improve the economic, or financial situation in all three services. We haven't all been active, and today many of us are talking about some technical things, but I think it was a tendency to come to a solution, because we are deeply aware of the facts in which BHRT is in particular, and I need to tell the fact that there is a very specific relationship between federal television and BHRT, and we don't need to close our eyes and I think that's the key problem. A solution has been sought, we need to be aware of the facts and the political stance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which says there is no need to pay a RTV fee and it has affected that there is no adequate or expected income. The campaign led by certain political parties not to pay a RTV tax due to political motives and political interests also affected the overall state of society, the state of financial capacity of citizens as well. We adopted this law not to adopt we will continue to have an inherited problem and I am not convinced that if the law is adopted, it will solve all problems, but it should be pursued. Of course, there is no ideal solution, but I think enough energy, knowledge, the collaboration of service representatives has been articulated here through this proposal. Of course, compared to the previous basic text of the amendment and the additions sent by the two colleagues, there was probably a change on the basis of some of the co-operation of the Members themselves in the Commission. As a member of the Transport and Connection Commission, I did not support part of the amendment proposed by a group of Members on the Commission itself, and I do not believe that these are adequate solutions. And, of course, by using the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Rule 124 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I would like to renew amendments which have not passed on to the Commission, i.e. to renew the amendment relating to Amendment VI, or one part thereof, and I think that fellow MPs have been able to read both the content of the amendments and the content of the arguments which I would no longer comment on, or speak of, except that we, from the SNSD Club, remain in the position to declare our amendment here integrally and not in any way partial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14362	Thank you. Will you deliver that amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14363	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14364	It's already been delivered. Okay. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 52 So, fellow Staši Košarac I would just say to the following, therefore not standing, I think any MP could have put some kind of effort and that some proposal, however, it was exclusively the work of the Management Board of Systems, under Article 18, and the manner of collection and model, etc. So, ours was just to make a decision on height and increase or decrease the height of the tv fee. So, they, then, might have agreed to it ourselves because they dragged us into this story and I still think that the biggest culprit for this situation in the TV system is the Management Board of the System and he didn't invest any energy, except that they were spending money while it was gone, they got involved in their dissatisfaction and didn't suggest anything. They did, and this one model is that they suggested, but they proposed a solution again which, here's what you see from the discussion of what it's going to look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14366	Thank you. Discussion, Šefik Džaferović, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14367	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The last time we spoke about the Law in the first reading, I said that there is a very serious task ahead of us, and it depends on the solution of this task whether we actually have a system of public TV broadcasting in the future or not. I think it's a shame, it's a huge shame, and it's inadmissible, in fact, that we, by our possible inaction or by the wrong act, can lead to such a situation. The decision is at this House, she, the decision is at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, today it is in this House and I am glad that both the Commission of this House and all MPs in the past, I would say, have been seriously interested in this issue for several months. And today we've come to a solution that I think is being tested in every way possible and that could be acceptable. The legislators of the Law, so the two clubs of MPs, with their view to accepting this changed way of billing for RTV compared to the original proposal, have shown that they care very much about the text of the Law today. That's why I call on all political parties, all MPs to stand aside, that's what I said the last time, personal close-minded or any other interests, to observe the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the interest of entities, cantons, municipalities, all peoples and all citizens, this is therefore in the interest of all, and to adopt this Law today. We can also talk about the technical aspects of this model, we talked about the last time it was basically a model via telecoms and cable operators how in what way, it produces confusion, confusion. I think this is much simpler and much better than the original proposal, it's going to produce much less clarity in practice, but that's why there's practice, and we've once practiced this model of billing for tv fees. Therefore, I call on the House of Representatives to vote for this Law. As for the SDA's position, the president of the club will talk about it, he applied for a discussion, but I can tell you that as far as I'm concerned, the law is acceptable. From the amendments, in my opinion, everything that is on the trail of the Committee of the System is acceptable. And we've got him, I'm ready to accept all the amendments that are being traced to the decisions of the Board of Systems. There is one amendment in the proposed amendments that have two parts, one being traced to the decisions of the Committee of the System, and it concerns the distribution of marketing funds, and that is in the spirit of what the System Committee has proposed, and I am, for example, ready to support that amendment. As far as this second section is concerned, I'm not ready to support it because it's a question that gets in the way of other problems and questions. That is why I call on the political party who has proposed this amendment to consider whether it is possible to make two amendments out of 53 of that amendment, because if it remains the way it is, then I will vote against that amendment, and of course I will vote for the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14368	Thank you. Amir Fazlić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14369	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It's hard to say something new now after all these discussions and the time we've spent discussing this law. I just need to remind you of some findings. About one finding that this Law is ishitren I must say that we as MPs were familiar with the problem of the Public TV Service and that, therefore, on 13.05. the two clubs referred to the procedure of the Law, so we had a first reading, so we had one conclusion to change the amendment phase, so we always called on and said that we were ready to accept every solution that sort of fixes the situation, is that a permanent system solution, is that a solution for someone who would be upgraded, but we were ready. And here, in the end and through the competent commission, we have shown and we have joined, both parties, these amendments that we thought were important and changing the way in which the entire bill was collected and the essence of the whole law, but in some ways we think it's a more quality way. We got arguments from some institutions, consultations, more users, and all of what we used here. In advance, give some assessment that something is not going to be good, and if it hadn't come to life, it's a little hypothetical, I think we should support this solution today, adopt this law. The SDA Members' Club believes that these proposed amendments, which later came after the commission phase of Košarac and Lovrinović, and what Šefik has explained here, this amendment from Košarac, particularly about percentages and marketing rights, that SDA Club is ready to support this section relating to marketing rights, to remain with public broadcasters who exercise those marketing rights in a 100% amount. But let's just remind ourselves of the original percentages in the Law that were 50:25:25, and then we agreed on the Commission to make it 40:30. True, a percentage of 33:33:33 is the full equalization of state television with entity television and it would, in some ways, reduce the importance of state television, and we all know that in all democracies we know the importance of state television. So what I'm saying is that as legislators of the basic law, we've completely changed the concept, we've fully accepted all the amendments, we've participated in these amendments, and what's been going on here is a lot of effort. Whether or not the Board of Directors of the System is guilty, then very often, in my opinion, we interpret the Commission's decision, the Commission's conclusion on the formation of an interresor working group, I think we often interpret it as we agree. I'll remind you, and it would be good to make a record, to speed it up and see exactly the definition of that conclusion. The definition, to remind you, means maybe I'm wrong, because it's been quite a while, the definition of that conclusion has been read – that an interresor working group is being formed to determine why the existing solution was not implemented to the extent that the Law defined it. And one of the reasons was that some future legal solution would not experience the same fate as not to be implemented. Will it result in an interresor working group based on everything she's seen, and on this proposal we haven't defined it, and we didn't say it couldn't. So I ask you that, to address this situation today, I think that with this solution all three public services would be in a better position, and in any case all of these discussions that point to some 54 minuses, especially for, don't give Bog, using these funds for pre-election purposes, we have experience, we know we don't need, we're on a higher level of democracy, I don't think that anyone will allow it. I ask you once again, and I suggest you support this legal solution, and my colleaguesKošarac if there is one, and they say that politics is a combination of possible and impossible, that by the time we vote, we try to arrange this, and I also see from a good smile that there is a good will.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14370	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, to those I represent here and on behalf of whom I am here, therefore, the issue of tv charges is one of the least important issues of the functioning and operation of the tv system. So this is on the trail of what Mr. Džaferović was saying. However, it is obvious to some that it is the most important thing to pick up a hack and that there is someone who spends it, that may be so, we will see how long, and so far it has been, but most important questions, I don't know how the claim that this kind of tv system fits all. I would like only two three examples to be cited that this is the basis, on which it can be claimed that this is how the TV system exists and the service service works for everyone. I claim that most of it doesn't answer to anyone, to anyone. So, but the most important issues about the existence of a RTS system, and it doesn't want to open a story here. So it's important, as I've already said, to pick up the hack and that only someone has to spend it and nothing more, and calm Bosnia.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14372	Thank you. Discussion, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be very attached to what Mr. Fazlić and Mr. Džaferović said before, and as far as the SBB Club is concerned, I can also say that we will, of course, support the law, the bill, and that there is, therefore, a willingness to support one part of this amendment, which the SNSD Club has directed, that is, Mr. Košarac, regarding marketing. As for this second part, as the SDA Club gentlemen pointed out, this is not only about the importance of state television over entity television, but it's about objective needs and I can safely say, even the obligations BHRT as a state system has, and entity operators simply don't have. This is, among other things, the international obligations, but also others, and is therefore offered this, or finally accepted this 40:30 model. And that's how you know the shift from this original proposal that read 50:25 to 25. But you see, it's not, this isn't right now, it's really not about some political trade, it's not about meeting in the middle right now, it's really about objective needs, so it's clear because of the international and other obligations of BHRT that it's necessary, that it goes 40%, and that 30% goes to entity operators, no matter how much it lives in the Federation, how much it lives in the RS, so here and here one and the other entity operator gets the same part of the cake. It's a really good bill. Far from being rash, I know very well how much this bill worked out, and I know very well how many colleagues of mine from both the club and the other 55 have made an effort to come up with a final solution to find, so one really good and ultimately a compromise solution for all parties who will really enter one chance and that objective chance, not just for survival, but for further strengthening of all public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so all of them. And now I return here to these business provisions and I would really ask Mr. Košarac and the SNSD Club to consider, Mr. Košarac quoted one provision of this Article 124, and I will kindly refer you to the 124th position (4) which says that the amendment promoter has the right until the conclusion of the debate amendments withdraw, amend or supplement. So none of you are asking you to withdraw the amendment, nor to supplement it, just to change it to separate it into these two. So you have two positions in that amendment, one is acceptable to most, one is going to be here, if you want me to be really specific to the end, one amendment we can support and RTRS will benefit from that. If you insist, and there is no need, given that the Rules of Procedure allow you to separate this, then I think that after this whole debate, it is clear that no one, nor will RTRS, benefit from it. And that's why I'm joining my colleagues in calling for this to be separated, for this amendment of yours to be broken down into two amendments, and then to declare it individually. I don't see any reason we're making a statement about this in the package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14374	Thank you. We don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on a Prosecution Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 18.03.2016. The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 27th session of the House, held on 05.04.2016. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the draft law was removed from the agenda of last meeting of the House and the Commission was granted an extension of the deadline for submission of the Report by 30 days. On 18 July 2016, the Constitutional Legal Commission again requested an extension of the deadline for submission of the Report by 60 days. We're going to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Volunteer Activities organised by associations and foundations, churches and religious communities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1187/16, since 27.06.2016 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14377	/not a mcrophone/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14378	For correcting the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14379	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14380	Okay, only if you can sign off on correcting the wrong quote. So, Nermina Kapetanović, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's correct by the rest of the ministry which has largely accepted the suggestions that have come, different suggestions from different sides, here, starting with the Agency for the Protection of Secret Information. I think they're completely justified claims, so it's an intensity, so we try not to reveal the identity of the people who volunteer. Otherwise, it is a tendency that this House of Representatives tries to introduce a trend to consult the Agency in the adoption of protection laws, which treat personal data. And I think your intervention was entirely justified. I also appreciate the very justified intervention of the Government of Republika Srpska, which first intervened on the law itself, the name of the law, the name of the law was not entirely in order and such a modified, amended name of the law, so the draft law on volunteer activities organised by associations,..., churches, religious communities and institutions of BiH, is something that is acceptable. Such an original name, of course, that it wasn't acceptable. All in all, the Ministry of Civil Affairs also had several interventions. There are other irregularities in the law, but I appreciate the efforts made by the representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers. I think keeping in mind that this is the first reading that we should support the text in this first reading, and if there is a need to possibly complete the text, to improve, we can act as an amendment, and only the Ministry may once again go through this text after our discussions, but it would be good to support this text today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14382	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić, discussion. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14383	Thank you. In short, this House has considered a similar subject on several occasions, and each time it was a negative opinion. The SNSD club can't support this law. The first and basic reason is because he has no constitutional basis. In 2013, Republika Srpska passed a Voluntary Law and in a modern, modern way, in accordance with international standards, resolved the issue of volunteering, and also in 2014 adopted a Volunteering Strategy, I think in 2014-2018. In that sense, we cannot support this Law, because the existing legislation of Republika Srpska is entirely addressing this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14384	Thank you. We're out of logs. I'm closing a hearing on this agenda point. We're going to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – submiter: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01,02-37-1581/16, since 01.06.2016 At its 32nd session, held on 14.06.2016, the House College was designated by the Joint Committee on Human Rights as responsible for considering the Report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 15.07.2016. The Commission unanimously accepted the Report and proposed to the House of Representatives its adoption. I'm opening a debate. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14386	Honorable chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I call on this Parliament to reject this report or to return it to completion, given what I could read in the report, I don't think these reports should contain. Here, the director of the Agency or the one who made the report in one good part referred to a problem that has a personal or agency with the BiH Prosecutor's Office and brings in personal or subjective some kind of approach, where it suggests or assesses the work of individual prosecutors of the BiH Prosecutors, etc., etc., even enters the opinion of the Court of Justice on the problem it has. Therefore, there is no reason for either the director or anyone in charge to wait for an opinion or a final or judicial ruling. I am, not to be personal, but given the fact and some experience when I led the Ministry of Security I was really surprised when I saw that this director was the same to sign this act and that he was still holding this position since he didn't know or unilaterally approach, this, business, especially when it comes to the adoption of misappropriations to which the Agency is entitled. If you look at the structure of the criminal reports, you'll see that they may be one-national, but they haven't crossed the entity line. I'm not saying this to protect those who are being punished, but to ask the director why he didn't cross the entity line. Is this 58 Agency responsible for one space, for a smaller space, for a single people, or for a majority of one people, etc., or for the agencies that individuals lead. So I think we should take the report back and he should methodologically put it differently, process it differently, not to make personal views and observations about the problem he has with the prosecution, because the prosecution is the one who has the right to investigate, has the right to make its final prosecutorial decision, etc., etc. So I think that, uh, and I call on Parliament to, if whoever reads it will see that this is what I've said the argument... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14387	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14388	I thank you, Chairman. You know what, when they're screaming at somebody, I see he's really good. I think, dear colleague Ahmetović, that Banja Luka is in Republika Srpska, here I see violations of orders also in Banja Luka. I remember when the Republika Srpska MUP, it seems to me, last year, the RS Ministry of Health screamed and attacked the Personal Data Protection Agency because of orders issued there. Well, I remember in Brcko District the same problem as the D.A.'s. Let's tell her the director broke the law, but the prosecution made it impossible for him to act according to the law, and only one thing. They didn't object to either the cantonal or the republican prosecution. Why someone refuses to comply with the law, and that's where the issue of abuse is raised by the prosecution. I... really, and this is proof to me, that everyone criticises them, that they're really independent. I support the Agency's independence. The municipalities in which the SDS has power have been punished have also been punished, I see here on the list, the agency where our officials are. And let's, if they haven't done well, if they've broken the law let's do so and you have our full support for independence in your work. And I'm glad to see that this agency, which is a new agency, has done a very good job and that Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least for one matter, has far removed from Serbia, in terms of the protection of personal data. And here, since it's time for me to finish, I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity, if I may, so I won't use it again, to ask one question. Very often, the Data Protection Act is being misused here in order to prevent access to public information. I have here an answer to the parliamentary question in the National Assembly of my esteemed colleague Borenović, which is due to media inscriptions that the Public Service, which we have now talked about, is the RTVRS of Mr. Lazanski pays 2,000 euros a month, plus travel expenses and is given to Mr. Đaković 200,000 copyright marks, plus 6,000 marks of monthly salary. Mr. Borenović asked a parliamentary question and asked for their receipts. And you know who got the answer from RTRS, he says - we can't do it because of the Personal Data Protection Act to answer you. It means someone who is paid by public funds, I'm curious whether there was an abuse of the Law on the Protection of Licensing Data, or whether the Public Service had to go public. information, given that it is public funds, means of citizens. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14389	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14390	Thank you. On the trail of what Mrs. Pandurević has already said, so I think this is a second report, at least since I've been a representative, to adopt from this agency, which is about the problem of working and respecting the law by the prosecution. The report also stated last time that the prosecution, i.e. the chief prosecutor, was intruding them and disturbing them in the application of the law. I think they have an obligation to respect the law, too, or they don't. That's why I congratulate, therefore, Mr. Director who had the strength, I hope that everything he said here stands, therefore, because the process that takes place makes it impossible for him to work and enforce the law, as far as I understand. It's even, as far as I have information, and now it's in effect, or it's not, so I'd like the principal to come out and answer this question later, too, to say whether this relationship with the D.A.'s office is still this way. And if he can't answer it, then I'll ask him a question. But pay attention to the sentence, therefore, which it says – a logical conclusion is that the only goal of the investigation against the director was to cause fear, which becomes an integral part of the functioning of this society and the state. This is worse than coming from an institution that is founded to ensure the rule of law and respect for human rights. It was expected that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council would prevent such arbitrary treatment by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Our expectations were unrealistic. So I congratulate you on this sentence, yet, so I believe this is the case, because I'm also at one of the previous points, and I don't know how many sessions I'm looking for answers, written answers to questions, not gentlemen to answer. He won't answer me that he can't answer me, and he won't answer that either. Well I can't do it anymore, I don't know what to do. So, if you can answer me if this is the state of affairs relative to the D.A.'s office still, if I can't answer it, I'll have a way, so... I'll ask the D.A.'s office one more question, which I probably won't get an answer to, but I hope I still have to get answers to all the questions I've asked once. Thank you very much, and I will, of course, support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14391	Thank you. We're out of press releases. I don't know if the director has any need at all or, do you insist on your answers, Mrs. Pandurević? Ask the director to give an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14392	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14393	Here you go, Director.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14394	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. It's an honor to welcome you in front of the Personal Data Protection Agency and in your personal name. 60 We at the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data have tried to succeed in 2015 when it comes to the protection of personal data, one of the fundamental human rights. I hope we've fulfilled our expectation of what was our mandate. Of course, we are unhappy with the current situation when it comes to the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we are satisfied with the progress. When it comes to the findings in the report, they are what they are, we have... facts and concrete evidence. Among other things, when it comes to freedom of access to information and we have looked back on it, and this is what we've been looking at from the beginning, meaning the Agency's work, that it's two different rights, in a way, contradicted, and that neither of the other rights are absolute and implies a restriction, certain restrictions. And what marked the protection of personal data in 2015 is precisely arbitrary, namely the illegal call of public authorities to the protection of personal data poop, is it impossible to access the freedom of information. The Agency is limited here, freedom of access is not in our jurisdiction, it is in the jurisdiction of other institutions. We can only appeal and give opinions according to certain requirements. When it comes to the prosecution's proceedings, it is just as much as it is written about in the report, and not only is it a matter of pressure, but it's a matter of public interest, that's what we wrote. Negotiations with Eurodžast have been hitched, and we are late in comparison with all countries in the region, and international co-operation involves, above all, adequate protection of personal data, whether Europol, whether it is Eurostat and 15, so the prosecutors have shown, during our inspection supervisions which were of an instructive character, and the interest and need to meet the legal obligations. So, right now, that's the state of things like that, there's no moving around. The issuing of criminal orders is not within the authority of the director, but the acting inspectors and they are there, have autonomous... and freedom to issue criminal orders based on the facts and evidence they have in the case. So it's not in my office, nor do I deal with criminal orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14395	Thank you. I'm closing the debate at this point. We're moving to 12 points on the agenda, Ad. 12. Annual consolidated report on the financial management and control system for 2015 – submiter: BiH Ministry of Finance and Tezor, issue: 01,02,03- 16-1478/16, since 18.05.2016 At its 34th session, held on 27.06.2016, he appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 18.07.2016. The Commission unanimously accepted the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 13th agenda, 61 Ad. 13. Information on the state of emigration, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Act No 01,02-42-1590/16, from 02.06.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14398	I thank the chairman. Before I go, I want to thank the honourable minister and her team for the information that has been delivered and which is really a mirror, I would say, not only Bosnia and Herzegovina's diaspora, but Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. The information therefore gave a picture of how many of us are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. as many of us are not in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I am so little surprised that there are no more interested in the discussion, and there have been so many controversy about the story of the census in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the fact that this information covers only until 2015, so even the first quarter does not cover even the first quarter of 2016, even though we know that an entire city has moved out in the first quarter of 2016. This information is also commendable on that side that it has given division by age, gender, but partly and according to the professional preparation of our emigrants, and that it was also covered in 2016 would probably show that young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are getting less and less from day to day, especially those educated, and here is only the data of how many doctors left Bosnia and Herzegovina by 2015, so the percentage is around 11%. And the fact because of all the events and new managements in various clinical and hospital centres is that the number and significantly higher those who have left Bosnia and Herzegovina, or that Bosnia and Herzegovina, probably if there is now some foreign investment, or these foreign investors who so wish for many years, does not seem to be any foreign investor coming, Bosnia and Herzegovina would probably be forced to import whenever, which is trade-related, what about other educational structures. So, this information gives us a picture, especially this legislative body, that in the future, I would recommend to a respected minister, since it is a member of the Council of Ministers itself, that it be considered, or that other ministries within the Council of Ministers be involved, and here is why. In this Information is mentioned as one of the recommendations to establish a business directory of diaspora. I, as someone who worked at the German Chamber of Commerce and had daily communication with investors in Germany, that is, outside the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the shortcomings in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a single registry of entrepreneurs, i.e. businessmen by business branches. This means when an investor who is interested in ex-yu of the country invests or finds someone... his participant in border production can not even do so via Google, because Google will immediately forward it to Croatia and Serbia, because Bosnia and Herzegovina does not own such a unique registry, and of course such people decide to invest and then invest their communications and co-operate with the countries of the region, i.e. the Republic of Croatia and Serbia. This means that for such information and for such a proposal, before the diaspora register is established, some steps must be taken within your own country. 62 What is also interesting is information that says that emigration is insufficiently organised, and membership in organisations is mostly limited to one ethnic group. I understood that, dear ministers, in a way that also the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina, beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately functions as itself Bosnia and Herzegovina, and although they have left their homeland, they have decided to group on ethnic principles rather than on the principle that would make a significant contribution to the homeland in which they, as this Information says, sometimes plan to return. The information also says that most of them would return to their homeland, but I think, and I have enough information, and I have been alone in communication that with diaspora, young people are sure, that this percentage and this information would be different if they had adequate information about all the complexity of this system, about all the administrative barriers to starting a business,..., that there are no incubators, that there is actually nothing in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that Bosnia and Herzegovina remembers its diaspora in fact every two years when it takes people to vote and remember them when there is something to open up, whether some religious object or something so that they send their donations. And it's this tragedy and this sadness that they're organized in the way Bosnia and Herzegovina is organized, they've gone into the Western world, so I'm so little disappointed that they haven't spread their perspectives. This is that pensioners will return, because obtaining pension status in some countries outside of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or in most countries it doesn't make life much easier when you're retired, so our pensioners They return to their homeland when they get those conditions. [[Embassy is warned on time]] All in all, I think that Information is very good, commendable, but that it is tragic because we have all the agencies, here I am asking the SIPA question, or the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, why it has not taken any steps to establish communication and cooperation with our diasporas, and to try to do all the information ad hoc, so if they are already visiting all European centres, let them make some meetings with our diaspora in those centres that they walk around the world to try to do something for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14399	Thank you. Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14400	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. By reading this document, of course, I want to say first of all, you've put a lot of effort and work into making it, and I'm going to start with what should be at the end, the data you've given, 1,671,177, which is devastating, but it's not true. It's a lot more than 1,600,000, a lot more, far more. Our diaspora is not only what has left Bosnia and Herzegovina's premises through wartime circumstances, but also the diaspora in the second, third, fourth generation. Our diaspora is moving, ours, I don't think of any nation or religion here, but of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it begins far earlier. And as far as I can tell, and given the circumstances, I am speaking from my own experience, I see that Albania does not exist. Here, Albania is gone. Now I'm going to list 10 villages where only people from these areas live, meaning the town of Skadra, which is more than 50%, across Velipoja and all the villages around, but all of them. It's all a diaspora from Bosnia and Herzegovina and they speak our language perfectly. But don't lie to the devil there are them, when it comes to confiscation, all three confesions, both Catholic and Orthodox and Islamic. And that's our diaspora. 63 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's true, of course, because they're from these areas, and you know exactly where they come from. So we need to structure this a little differently. I am speaking here for the simple reason why we forget that what Mrs. Maja is saying, which is at our disposal, and we are at our disposal with enormous intra-electric potential, huge, and huge financial potential. Just as an example, respected ministers, they say that we begin there, too, that we are divided into an egonational or religious one. As an example, APU is a network where there is no Srbin, Bošnjak Hrvat, where there is no Orthodox, Catholicism or Islam but there are people. I hope you know about the APU network and it works in Scandinavian space. And they all help each other immensely, and they're very successful. As an example, it can be an example of everything else, and of us here. Or as an example in Copenhagen, the strongest technical disciplines in Denmark and in the literal sense of words in that sphere have taken over, they have primate, as technical persons, I speak for engineers, it is the Association of Engineers of origin from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that, I hope, is late. Or the Association of Professors who have managed to educate our children at this point the world's most prized experts we've literally given up. So the world's first Politechnic University of Evangen now has 11 professors who were born in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the head of them are two who, for the second time already in the group, you should know, three-dimensional fluid currents are proposed on the Nobel Prize, as a group, that's Professor. Perić and Prof. Jakirlić. They're leading a whole bunch of extraordinarys, but we don't see them here. Not us, but there's no good for our children. Both Perić and Jakirlić are Sarajevo Faculty of Machines, but they were lucky to have mentors like Prof. [[Employee is warned on time]] Hanjalić, who did not look at Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, but looked at how much they know, how much they can and how much they can give. A special story is the University of Politic Engineering in London and perhaps the world's largest name in the area...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14402	Mr. Backović's time is...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14403	Sir needs to know this. I did my best to find out all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14404	I know, but there are rules, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14405	Izet Demirdžić, I say the world's largest right now, but also, I know he's not being treated like a diaspora.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14406	Mr. Backović, I ask you to finish because it's come to you, a minute and twenty you've spoken more than... Thank you. Denis Bećirović. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14407	Thank you, Chairman. So the diaspora issue is undoubtedly an extremely important issue. I've had opportunities both outside the country and in the country to talk to a number of representatives of the diaspora, to attend the diaspora conventions and to get closer to getting acquainted with the topic. And that question name its very important and economic aspect, and educational aspect, and cultural, and scientific, and sports, and legal and numerous other aspects. Unfortunately, we are the only state in Southeast Europe, not to go wider, which has still not regulated the area legally properly, so we still do not have the diaspora law. And that's why I called. In early 2015, I proposed an initiative to deliver to Parliament for consideration and adoption of the law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The initiative has passed the full commission phase, reached the House of Representatives and, for a miracle of God, received most of it, a convincing majority in the House of Representatives and Properties. It is perhaps a small step but a very important step that is the highest legislative body, MPs from both entities finally concluded in 2015 that in the interest of all of us we should adopt a law on diaspora. The initiative has led the law to be delivered to us by the end of 2015. It is now the second half of July, so we can conclude that the Council of Ministers has not realised Parliament's decision, and we know the relationship between Parliament and the Council of Ministers, we are the ones who choose and resolve ministers, but the situation is as it is. My colleague, MP Mešić, three, four months ago, Bosić, proposed to you in the College, and you accepted that, that we MPs finally receive information about the adopted initiatives of this House in this term and their realization. Four months ago, we're waiting, but that information's gone. That information will undoubtedly contain this. If that doesn't come, that information by the next session, the promoter of it, fellow Mešić, and many other MPs from almost all parties, we will all ask together to make this issue as serious as possible. Of course, rarely when I say that, probably in my grades why there is no law would be much sharper if the head of the Resolute Ministry of Human Rights was not one of the few maybe agile ministers in this Council of Ministers and perhaps one of the few that could get a passing grade. I believe that, in part, I am informed that the distinguished Minister Semiha Borovac has taken certain activities, I cannot be unobstructed so as not to say that I do not know what problems he is facing, and obstacles, etc., but of course on this subject, I would like to draw attention to Parliament's decisions that must be carried out consistently and consistently. And to encourage you in the ministry, headed by a resolute minister, so you are not doing this job on your own right now, it is the first time in post-day Bosnia and Herzegovina that you are doing it on the basis of Parliament's decision. That is why I call on you not to say and please give this part of the work to be completed as soon as possible, implement Parliament's decision and make this law come here. We are not going to say all the problems in this area by adopting the Diaspora law, but without a doubt we will send a strong and positive message to our complete diaspora that this country is thinking of them, that it counts, and ultimately we must be aware that we in this country more We need the support of this diaspora than the diaspora needs our support. [[Employee is warned on time]] When I proposed this initiative, I also gave some concrete economic calculations, and there is really no reason why we should all not unite in the common interest to come here as soon as possible. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14408	Thank you. 65 Let me just tell you that we had this information about the unfinished obligations and those things that were in the procedure. And as far as I know, that information was delivered to the MPs. So, at the College she was considered and forwarded to the MPs, and now from the Secretariat two or three months ago, she says it was sent. So, take a look. If anyone's missing, I assume the sekretarijat is at the service of resupplying. Nermina Kapetanović, debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here, wait, since I've already called Mrs. Kapetanović. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the people who worked at the Department of Human Rights have made this report very correct. ...of this report and earlier years, I was interested in the activities of that part of the ministry that works with the diaspora, and here I am using this opportunity to direct truly sincere congratulations to the person who led this direct contact with our emigrant and in working with the diaspora. I appreciate the discussion of all previous debaters, and I expected that they would be more and more worrying is the fact that, although we are aware of the fact that more and more people are moving out of Bosnia and Herzegovina, today most MPs are not talking about it. It is particularly worrying that there is an outage of mind from Bosnia and Herzegovina, a very educated young people, as well as middle-aged people and older generations leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina must urgently take whatever it takes to try to keep the intelligence of this country in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that the ministries, absolutely not projected on you, so this my claim, but I think that... certain strategies and policies at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be... according to the emigration can lead to the fact that a certain very large number of Bosnian and Herzegovina intellectuals who left the country during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who demonstrate their willingness to return to the country to return to the... policy, also this law on diaspora, which was spoken of by a respected colleague, Bećirović, and a number of other acts that the Ministry of Human Rights is preparing. And from what I understand, they are already in a good stage to be brought, and I note particularly the development of BiH's policies towards emigration and the strategic framework for BiH. And I think that strengthening ties to emigration, in terms of their involvement in the social economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, should be priorities of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and all MPs. I cannot agree with the claim that primarily by ethnic groups... the associations of emigrants outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I bear witness to the existence of several academics, let's say the Bosnian-American Academy of Science and Arts, which is not ethnically formed, I know the leadership and the Academy, which shows a strong interest in everything that is happening in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and which all of its potential, in terms of legal advice, legal services, and also in the services of all other types of sectors from which they are well-known are given for co-operation. So, they're not gathered by ethnic principles, and I don't think such associations as the American-Bosnian intellectuals' association that 66 should be encouraged and that kind of co-operation, but they shouldn't run away from co-operation with associations that are also on the ethnic level of forsarans. We haven't done too much to ease their vote in the election. The fact that it is, there is a vote by mail and DKP, but it's been waiting a long time for these results and I think that an additional effort can be made. It is not good that the co-operation of the diplomatic and consular representations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have repeatedly spoken as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission, is not good, is not the communication of our embassies of good, but I primarily do not blame our diplomatic and consular staff, i.e. our representatives outside, aware of the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Council of Ministers, do not provide sufficient funds to enable our diplomatic and consular staff to participate in all events that have to do with our emigration, from the days of the diaspora, to the learning of the native language, let's say, whatever it is called, from people who want to study it in other countries, to mark significant dates of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have recently witnessed that the ambassador of one, the ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in one rich EU state, has indeed marked one of the dates of Bosnia and Herzegovina on its expense and therefore not on the cost of the foreign ministry, without being able to invite emigrants to the country. What is very important with cultural co-operation, of course, is a very important fact, for me, a very important fact that the economic power of the diaspora and the fact that emigration is regularly sending money to Bosnia and Herzegovina, if this data is correct, and I have no reason to doubt that it is 2.3 billion on an annual basis, I think that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina by making the acts in question, which seem to me to be in preparation, must find a way that interested potential investors, representing the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are particularly involved in local communities and to facilitate their ability to invest, here in the environments from which they have gone, and show interest in that. So, once again, I think that the Council of Ministers must also consider the amount of money it provides to the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to enable diplomatic consular networks to really be the level of services that will be provided to our diaspora at the level at which it should be, and not to mark the days of importance for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the premises of the embassy, but to be organised extensively somewhere outside the embassy. I think this report is good, to all the people who have done this report I congratulate but I also invite them to the Council of Ministers and Parliamentarians to consider the possibilities of better connecting with our diaspora and trying to bring these people back to Bosnia and Herzegovina by creating a stable environment and a business environment for their return.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14411	Thank you. A piece of the wrong quote, Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14412	Mr. Chairman, I am correcting your claim that the SDP Parliament Club has received a response to the initiative launched. We at the SDP Club have a register of launched initiatives where we follow the fate of these initiatives. I ask the secretary to deliver this initiative in order to possibly launch a debate at this House. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14413	So we need to see what's around it, so here's what we're going to do with the Sekretarijat. We don't have any more, Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14414	It's not a classic correction of the wrong quote, but let me maybe explain this situation. So, at this point, it may be less important whether it happened or not, obviously not to the SDP Club, it's a much more important thing if that information already exists, that it exists and that, according to our already adopted conclusion at the next session, you of the College put it as a special item of the agenda, to conduct a discussion and to carry out an analysis of what this House adopted, which is not, and what is realized. I think there's an explanation now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14415	Okay, thank you. We're finishing this part of the agenda. Let's go to point 14. The minister wanted us to, let's give the word to the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14416	I thank the distinguished MPs who discussed this Information and what I think we should explain here is about this initiative that Denis Bećirović spoke of, which said Parliament had adopted an initiative concerning the adoption of the law. As the Council of Ministers, we have responded to this initiative of the Parliamentary Assembly and have defined ourselves as the Council of Ministers, given the experience so far relating to the adoption of the Diaspora law, so that we can first make a policy towards emigration that will include law-making. So according to the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, by the end of the year, we're making this policy. We have already prepared ourselves for it, done the initial text, formed a working group in which unfortunately, despite this initiative, we do not have a representative of the Government of Republika Srpska, and we have waited very long to deliver to that task force two representatives, or three, if necessary, depending on the ministries that cover the area with emigrants, but we have not received this support for the reason why this is considered as the authority of the entity and not the jurisdiction of the state, although we are on it several times, this. So we believe that politics may be one document that will define the country's further activities towards emigration... the answer to all these many questions that we have raised here in the Information. I think that is how the Parliamentary Assembly concluded in both homes that an initiative for policymaking was adopted in the end. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14417	Thank you, Minister, for the helpful clarification, for the 13th point debate has been concluded.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14418	/Nines included microphone/ 68
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14419	No, I've concluded the debate, Mr Bećirović. We only gave it to the Minister after the debate was concluded to explain this situation. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Information on the implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Programme for Housing Management with Reasons – Prosecutor: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Act No: 01,02,03-21-1560/16, of 27.05.2016. The dom Kolegijum has appointed the Joint Committee on Human Rights as competent to discuss this information. The competent Commission delivered its opinion on the Information on 15.07.2016. The Commission has unanimously taken the information into account. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing at 14 points. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. Information on the state and phenomena of peer violence and violence among children in Bosnia and Herzegovina – submitr: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Act No: 01-37-1743/16, from 22.06.2016 (Realisation of Parliament's Initiative and Conclusions adopted at 24th session, held on 03.02.2016)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14422	I welcome all present. I've read this report and I thank Mrs. Secretary who's really made an effort to make this up, and I commend this report. I welcome... the plan from 2015 to 2018, I agree with the recommendations given, but what I am afraid of here is the implementation of all these measures in some local community. Namely, when we could read all of this then we saw and were very rare, a couple of counties gave their report that in these counties there was peer violence. And my fear is what happens in the local community, if we get real information from those communities. Now, somewhere in the end my conclusion would be, perhaps, an appeal to the Madam Minister, it would be that over the realization of these recommendations that we have received and this Action Plan should have, therefore, active supervision from the competent institutions. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14423	Thank you. A message from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14424	Thank you. I would also like to join the congratulations and thank the distinguished minister and Minister Osmanović, who has been in co-operation, whether, through the Conference to which the presidency has reached these, or received this information from the relevant ministries. What is a fact is that only the public seems to claim, or part of the public, that there is this phenomenon of peer violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, while educational institutions, i.e. the ministries, on their own information, say there is no such thing. When Honorable counterpart Šepić launched this initiative, it was an epilogue of what was all about Rakovac Mahir and an accident that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but what is frightening is that Minister of Education Canton Sarajevo does not mention in any row that such a case happened in Sarajevo, at a private school. It is also not noted that in 2008 outside the school also killed Denis Mrnjavac, his peer killed him. So there is absolutely no sign that this is no longer an incident happening here and there, this is phenomena in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So when my esteemed colleague mentions the competent institutions, I ask myself what the institutions are. When a report is taken from Republika Srpska, let's say they have an Ombudsman for children, there you will see that hundreds of applications have where the Ombudsman for children directly cooperate with children children address her. So they have an address to turn to. The Federation of BiH raises the question of who these children will address. It will address an NGO here and there if it exists in a particular environment, but unfortunately all environments do not have such reputed, I would say, NGOs, which can be addressed and which deal with the issue of violence among children. It is also worrying that the 2011-2015 Strategy existed at the Ministry of Human Rights, however, because of the blockade from Republika Srpska, nothing has ever been done on this issue, on the issue of the Strategy. And I am also asking a question, or a rhetorical question, whether we are hostages, one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because one entity does not consider it relevant to answer some questionnaire that everyone else should suffer. So, although one entity was not eligible from 2011 to 2015 to respond to the questionnaire, it could be said for God's sake that they would not participate, and all other data relevant to the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District could be distributed. Leks specialises in child protection violence against violence absolutely does not exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question is that all that is recommended is whether it will succeed if, through this report, so many indications have been given that you, in fact, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, do not have a working group that will address these issues, or have one part of the entity, missing from another entity. So I welcome these recommendations only fear that any of this will happen, or that no one will care about the children in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This again shows the lack of interest of respected MPs and advocates to discuss this at all even though we are signatories to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, although we have all the institutions, agencies, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which should be continued, I would say on a daily basis, dealing with child issues. Unfortunately, no one talks about the family in Bosnia and Herzegovina anymore. Schools have lost that educational, even educational character to be talked about in educational institutions, in school, in education. The content, i.e. the curricula and the program that is so overbooked, is being overloaded by children, and the children are given little individual attention. It is also a question of why the education ministries did not provide the information they were asked of them, and it is, of course, a question so that 70 will ever be raised in Bosnia and Herzegovina to question the responsibility of institutions that do not answer the questions they are being asked, whether the Council of Ministers, whether the most legislative body, will be raised. Is there any responsibility, if they have rights and if they are appointed, they also have an obligation to provide some answers to the questionnaires asked of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14425	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14426	Not to think that I often like to replicate when she's saying something, so not maliciously, but well-intentioned, so respecting the fact that she read the report and that she has her own position on it and the situation in the area, so with all due respect, so not to be misunderstood, so the Ministry of Education in Canton of Sarajevo, for example, couldn't have listed these two cases because they happened outside school. So, and the way she talks, I'm just suggesting, she doesn't have to accept it, about schools and what schools do. So let the first contact of children with their parents and with school, no Ombudsman can replace family or school. And if we had brought the position of teaching staff and teachers and parents, mothers with children, to a neural situation, that's true, so we're not helping, that's what I agree with. So let's not minimize the work of schools, they do what they can in a situation where they are. So, as far as I know, she worked part of the school, saw what it looked like, and when it comes to wages, and giving, etc., don't, so they do, I guess, what they can, but still the cases that happen at school they report to the ministry. If they didn't report them to the Ministry,...the school facility can't... that kind of information if it didn't happen in a circle or at the school itself. I think we're just taking care of it, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14427	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14428	I didn't absolutely understand negatively, and thank you to a respected colleague, but the cases that occurred in Canton of Sarajevo are the result of peer violence. Reputed chief prosecutor Dalida Burzić can come out with such an attitude and say there was no peer violence, she can say it was not based on all the evidence collected. Whether or not the evidence is still missing, it is said to talk, but the person who would answer the question of peer violence is unfortunately no longer among us. So here the question arises – why can you in school, the educational staff that has lost the educational component was unable to notice that peer violence is taking place in a school. Denis Mrnjavac was also killed outside the classroom, but we can also talk that there are peers, there are no more components to be dealt with, this would not have been even launched if Rakovac Mahir had not unfortunately happened, no one would have talked in Bosnia and Herzegovina about peer violence. It's devastating and it's the fact that we're just talking and dealing with today's consequences, no one's dealing with causes. 71 The Canton Sarajevo Education Ministry says it is already being done, that psychologists, social workers in schools in Sarajevo are engaged. It's not manual, it's not true, it just needs to come in, to get in effect. How many schools there are of educators, psychologists and social workers, it should have statistically contained this Information, to show how many private schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are, how many public schools there are, how busy they are, who are in short supply, so that we, as the most legislative body, can then discuss with full information and give full support to get to the realization, that is, finally, the school deals with what it has and jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14429	Thank you. MP Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the trail of the discussion of the distinguished colleague, mentioning the late Denis Mrnjavac, and long ago I was a representative of the Federation of BiH Parliament and before the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH, I presented the proposal for a conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives – that the educator, psychologist, social worker and lawyer must represent a team that will necessarily be in all institutions of the social type, especially institutions dealing with children and educational institutions. The government of the Federation of BiH should be asked why this has not been done to this day. I would also ask, here I am now asking the Vlada of the federacij of BiH from this place, and I am asking us at the Council of Ministers, I think it will remember my colleagues from last term when as a delegate to the House of Peoples, I have repeatedly tried to run and establish, to give some impulse to re-activate the Council for Children of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has not worked for years. In 2013, they started again, but you know how many parliamentary issues were from the House of Peoples? Very, very much. They come out here, the Council for the Children of Bosnia and Herzegovina comes out with a series of recommendations for which I, like, dare say humanist, think they are wrong,... basic and secondary schools to introduce education on all forms of violence and abuse. Who will educate, here I ask the representatives of the Ministry – who will educate parents, especially in rural areas, and Bog for me and in the city, how will education of children be done, not to cultivate violence, but to advocate non-violence, both psychologically and physically. We keep talking about physical violence, the fact that children are beaten, beaten, killed, and worse, is just as terrible a psychic torture that happens regularly in our, especially primary schools, and also in high schools. As the mother of a child, I ask – who will protect children in my son's class, educate, class teacher does as much as he can, teacher works as he can, but I'm not sure that everything that needs to be done in our schools is done, especially on the part of the Board of Parents. What's especially horrifying to me as a parent is what I've been saying for years in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the fact is that child pornography, Internet pornographics that our children unfortunately already have access to, which advocates a terrible hate speech, the fact that paedophiles are active on web sites, and I'm going to welcome again the initiative that's happening in Republika Srpska to make a register of paedophiles, and I've talked about it for the last 10 years countless times, but I'm embarrassed to talk more about it. But I am concerned about the increase in child pornography, the growing number of pedophiles and the fact that the BiH Criminal Law and entity laws have not been sanctioned for paedophiles. And I'm particularly worried about the fact that since 2003, when changes started to happen. The BiH Penal Code, when we had a group of MPs in Parliament 72 of the Federation, was then addressed to the Working Group in 2003 to amend the Criminal Law, which did not finish its job until today. That crimes against half-freedom and morals and life and body, and especially psychological, physical, sexual abuse and endangerment of these freedoms to be strictly sanctioned, not until today's criminal code-altering group has done its job. As far as I can remember from 2003, they've been working and they haven't infiltrated it into domestic law. I ask the Council of Ministers - why the definition of torture, and of course it is not... our minister for a simple reason because these are initiatives that are old since 2003, at least for me – why the definition of torture, and there are a lot of lawyers here, is not included in domestic legislation and why finally our legal experts, we have very many and very good legal experts from both entities, at the level of the state and the Brcko District, do not say what a torture is. How can I judge torture and not define torture? What happens to our children in schools is torture, including psychological abuse, so this initiative itself, in which the Council for Children of Bosnia and Herzegovina recommends that schools organise events that will allow every child to show their talents, hobbies at least once a year, to be respected, respected and accepted. Taking care of all of this, which my colleagues and I were just talking about earlier, just seems pointless. We try to preserve their psychic integrity, life and body, and only afterwards can it come to order to allow children to show their talents. As a parent, I am concerned that the Criminal Law is not stricter, especially when it comes to children with reduced abilities, or children with disabilities. And I think that such NGOs as the "Earth of Children" NGOs from Tuzla and the "New Generation" Association from Banja Luka, and I think there's one such association in Zenica, I think. The state must find a way, here I am ending Mr. Chairman, the state must find an opportunity to help the work of NGOs because I think they represent the voice of civil society and are the foundation of this country and I think they can make a big contribution to working with our children. [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14431	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing on the 15th point. Point 16. Ad. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve for the period January – December 2015 – applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Act No: 01,02,03/03/14-16-1745/16, of 22.06.2016 The House College was appointed by the Finance and Budget Commission as competent. The Commission submitted its opinion to the Information on 18.07.2016. The Commission did not take the information into account. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14433	I'm not going to talk about the very essence of this information, but a few notes just to say. First, the information came at the request of the House of Representatives, which seems to me to be the 12th session of 2015. 73 years. Why? Because of the fact that after that, we've had a lot of doubts about why the budget reserve is being spent the way it's being spent and we've asked to make an insight before the budget implementation report comes. You've seen that it's not, there's been a very lively debate about it, and I think that the College has consciously put this important point so that it doesn't, they're all too tired to get into the details, and it's going to be possible for us, it's not, I mean, it's hard to convince you to put it to the end, and it's so important, especially when it comes to six people who, without any criteria, are spending a budget reserve. Now, in the next day, there will be a report on budget implementation, the material has come, so we'll have a chance to talk about this problem. And this is very sad, it stays here for the end when we're all so exhausted and there's no way to develop a particular debate to figure out what's really going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14434	Thank you. Okay, your accusations are without grounds for putting...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14435	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14436	I have no intention of letting you down at all. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14437	And I want a team about, there's no reason, we've always advocated the transparency of the division of this budget reserve, that's what we're still thinking and we're going to ask the Council of Ministers. But this is a problem, not only should it be broken at the Council of Ministers, all levels of government, from the head of municipalities, cantonal prime ministers, entity prime ministers, the government, to the Council of Ministers. And as much as it is, Mrs. Majkić, because all of our money is ours, it is our job, and when the budget reserve is funded by the book of the respected former BiH presidency member, Mr. Radmanović, titled "Four years in the BiH presidency", but also when Mr. Špirić, as former finance minister, from the Budžet institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is funded by the book "The Tree between the Cross and the Five-points". And how much he shared this is much less. And I'll tell you this, you know, that anything you can criticize, I respect colleagues who didn't sit on the Council of Ministers and give criticism, but you have to show consistency. First of all, your ministers shouldn't have worked like that, secondly, where you have authority, you can't work there. And I will tell you that Mr Ivanic, a member of the Bureau, is more than modest, has a budget reserve of 100,000 marks. On the other hand, Republika Srpska President has a budget reserve: grenades to non-profit organisations 2,600,000, no, support for humanitarian actions 2,600,000, and for building facilities for children and youth, as if Bog forgive me, we have no Ministry of Education, 2,463,000. Well, in that case, I must commend the modesty of the members of the Bureau and the honourable ministers at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14438	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14439	So one sin is not corrected by another sin. I have no responsibility for anyone and I do not defend anyone who has committed any sin. At the end of all that is the subject of what you just said, and it refers to Republika Srpska there is someone to say in the National Assembly and they do not need a lawyer from the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, and that is a place for the other side to agree on. This is how 600,000 is spent, so let's see if the citizens say exactly what you said. So we're in charge of what's ahead of us and that's what MPs of the House of Representatives should talk about, and as other levels of government, it's for someone else and he'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14440	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14441	Dear counterpart Majkić, such as these institutions here to do our duty to protect the interests of the citizens of Republika Srpska, so are the institutions of Republika Srpska and I have the right to speak, thank Bog in this country important freedom of speech in all of its territory, where I will and what I want. And I'll talk in every place if I think something's wrong. I'm just saying, I'm warning you of inconsistency. The DF can present such objections, I do not dispute them because they were not sitting and did not do this in the Council of Ministers, but whoever acted much worse, and to be clear, I think this practice should be changed, but in relation to the previous Council of Ministers, this Council of Ministers first reduced the funds, second transparency works, and third, if nothing to its private ministers for the difference between your party colleague, fellow Špirić, they do not pay their masters from the budget reserve. We all remember the texts of the Research Reporting Centre that Honored counterpart Špirić from the current budget reserve paid the masters at his house and Drava. So in order to teach someone else any lessons first, you must show principled behavior within your party and criticize your party colleague who is the father of such behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14442	Thank you very much. Mr. Amir Fazlić, correcting the wrong allegations. Please, please don't talk to each other, answer the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14443	Mr. Chairman, I think you have a very good session and you want to direct it in a good direction, but let these polemics, uh, now you've confused me a little, what I was thinking of asking. But here, it's not exactly a clean controversy that corrects Mrs. Pandurević's wrong quote, but I followed a little bit of this analysis so I didn't hear well, can I get a stenogram or can the Pandurjevic Pandurevićka repeat it to me, my colleague – is this about Mr. Dodik's reserve or some of the costs that he alone has? 75
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14444	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14445	So, if it's hard for you to repeat, I'd like to ask the Professional Service to deliver your speech through a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14446	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14447	Thank you very much, so I'm pleased that the Professional Service will provide me with a stenogram of this part of the exhibition.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14448	Thank you very much. Mr. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14449	Mr. Chairman, or Vice-President. My remark on the wrong quote is to a respected colleague, Pandurević. Mr. Radmanović was eight years in the presidency, you forgot to say that. And secondly, when it comes to the use of the budget reserve, so it's a legal category, I think it's important that we have that document and that we consider it. This is a significant public warning for possible disagreement with the way in which the budget reserve is used, and what I don't think we should use, let's say fellow counterpart Nikola Špirić is not there, I think it is unnecessary to mention here in the context of this, also investment, that is, using a budget reserve or part of the budget for some purposes by the President's Office, this should be the subject of discussion in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and... considering and using the budget reserve and budget. And I'm going to say one more thing, which we often forget, recently a sign has appeared in public that a Europarliamentary used, therefore, the credit card of the European Parliament to buy flowers to women. I think, I also think it's completely illogical, you mentioned a colleague of Špirić earlier, I don't want to be his protector in any sense, and recently we had a statement also, there was an entire debate on how to buy an apartment, where the BiH Prosecutor's Office, so the statement that no investigations were being conducted and there was no abuse of funds. In that sense, we shouldn't do this to anyone, this, because in some way we're devasting our own position, not protecting anyone, although I think, therefore, when it comes to public funds, they have to be available to the public in the way they're used, and how someone uses them is difficult to reach a consensus on whether it is used for the right purpose and the question is how would any of us, therefore, behave to it if it were to be able to decide. But it is one fact that this House, so this Parliamentary Assembly, has decided to increase budget reserve funds for, say, members of the BiH presidency. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14450	Thank you. 76 Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14451	Here I am now, thinking of correcting Miss Pandurević, but I will correct Mr. Prodanović, this dom has made no decision to increase the budget reserves for members of the Presidency, because it did not exist in the former councils. This means the first convocation where there is a budget reserve and which is used without any criteria and according to its opinion. It may have existed once 15, 16 years ago, but for the past 10 years there has been no such thing, and we all know that wherever there are no criteria, wherever there is no control there is a great space to manipulate budget funds. And when you take the list yourself and the list of those who were given these funds, it is obvious that there is non-transparency, as there is, I am not only talking about members of the Presidency, but also about the Council of Ministers and others. Because this is still about the total funds of over 6 million KM, and we've heard here that today we're looking for an imposition on citizens, so it's going to bring excises on oil and this. So save a little bit, cancel one part of the budget reserves, do another way, commit yourself to what you write in your letters of intent to both of us, means, to what you are looking for, not to speed up employment without competition, for example, or to spend budget reserves, spending without any control of public funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14452	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14453	I thank the chairman. Here, I will try a briefer review of the text of the information, because we also discussed it at the Finance and Budget Committee session. First, I think the name of the Information is wrong, I suggest to the representatives of the Minister of Finance, because you called this Information – Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current budget reserve, and the whole text refers to the total budget reserve not only the current budget reserve. Because the Budget Law of the BiH institution for 2015 has sorted this out in the following way, means total reservations contain the current reserve under number 1, under number 2 of reservations, only to get exactly how it is in the Law, the booking for the investment programme and under number 3 the reservation for the co-financing of the European Winter Olympic Youth Festival in 2017, and this Information refers to total reservations. So you should have paid attention and then it would be right for this Information to bear the title – Information on the allocation and use of the funds of the total budget reserve for the period 1-12.2015. A year. In accordance with the same I would like to state the following, you stated in the Information that the total planned funds of the reserve of 6,216.000 in 2015 were added to the amount of 505,000 KM based on the Decision on the restructuring of expenditure, which ultimately constitutes the amount of the planned funds of the reserve of 6,721,000 KM. This is wrong, so it doesn't ultimately do the planned funds of the reserve, the planned funds of the reserve are 6,216,000, and you added 505,000 KM that's something else, it's an increased budget cut by 505,000 KM which wasn't planned. So, it's not in the Budget Act for 2015, there's no amount of 6,721,000 KM. I asked the Ministry of Finance at the Commission's session to explain to me the legal basis of increasing the budget reserve by half a million KM, more specifically by 505,000 KM. Then they told me it was a member of the 16th. The law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here's what Article 16, I've tried to confirm that legal basis, but I haven't found a basis in Article 16 that can increase the budget reserve 77 by 505,000 KM, i.e. it can't change the budget reserve at all, because that is, by law, it is also determined by law in the budget for a certain year. Article 16 states the position (1) – at the written request of the budgetary user, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury may decide on the restructuring of expenditure within the total amount approved in the budget for the budget user. It is said here of the budget user, and the budget user is not a current reserve or a total budget reserve, because the law defines what is the budget user. The budget user, Article 2 of the definition, is from the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the other bodies financed from the budget and the regulatory authorities. Therefore, the budget reserve is not a budgetary user, and I therefore find it highly doubtful that this is the way to bring Alduk about restructuring, because that is not what the law provides. And that you have made a decision on redistribution, the redistribution says, this is Article 16(2) – between budget users again between budget users. The budget reserve is not a budget user, so that should be clarified. And of course, here's how we had our fellow Kementaries, the practice of not taking too much care of budget reserve spending, we know how it spends that, of course, everyone who has the right to a budget reserve has the subjectivity to decide on it, means that the amount subjectively determines for the reason that we legally prescribed it. We have, unfortunately, prescribed this by law, more specifically by the 2015 Budget Act and then made it possible for members of the 17th to deploy the budget reserve in the way it was done, and that is the error of this Parliament. I'm sorry that I took part in this, because apparently my trust has been misused, and in the future, I'm going to think very carefully about who I trust when it comes to these things. This information is very, very rude, so to speak, complex for the reason that there are so many errors. [[Employee is warned on time]] Here's one of the errors is the table you showed here, again in the table is the current reserve by decision, and it's not the current reserve, it's the total reserve, but there is that the distribution here should have been done based on the current reserve, not on those reservations of 900,000 KM. [[The ambassador was warned on time]] Because if something's booked that can't be shared, it shouldn't be shared. And that's one, but unfortunately, it missed us who then adopted the Budget Act, if we hadn't recognised it in due time, but who knew that you would in this way increase the budget reserve. And what can be done from a detailed examination...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14454	Mr. Emrić, it's been a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14455	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14456	Thank you. Debate, Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14457	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say, therefore, is a matter very principled, we were otherwise, the SBB Club, against the adoption of the Budget by emergency procedure. These kind of mistakes happen right now when it comes to budgeting and adopting his emergency procedure. I think now it's time, six months after some event chronology, to start an initiative to adopt a new budget and not get to 78 31.12.20012 and say that we have a time deficit again and that we adopt the budget by emergency procedure. What I find interesting is, therefore, the SBB was against this item and had ready amendments when it came to the budget, but we supported that budget, so here we will in principle support this report as well. However, this report does have a number of noedacies. What is very important to me is that six people have nearly 650,000 marks available and these 650,000 marks have criteria that are not really common. Well, I'll just remind you that these, the spending of these funds, are the most spent on funding religious institutions and their activities. The second part is mostly NGOs, and the third part is local communities. Interestingly, it is mostly those spendings in those environments that are spent in the middle of where those who have these resources come from. It really doesn't come to me, I really can't understand some of the other things that are in this report, let's say the recommendations of auditors that are addressed to institutions that are funded from the budget, so let's say funding education, etc., people who are already working in institutions. But here's what we see is that just funding these things we have in this report. So let's say it's very interesting that people who study in Italy are funded, which is illogical to me, is whether, well, then we have a number of other things that are also recorded in the audit report, and he's still, therefore, breaking. Here I would only mention these things, and of course, when we consider it, and we have already received this material, someone has mentioned before, so the report on the realization, that is, the execution of the Budget for 2015, and the report will therefore be discussed much more. Here, thanks, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14458	Thank you. Discussion, MP Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's a few words, though almost everything's said. I voted too highly against this information for the reason she's been late for a year. And probably when the House of Representatives in charge of the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2015 had some reason and probably needed it then, I don't have that conclusion here with me, to do a quarterly spending cut. Because the Council of Ministers held a meeting almost a month later in 1706 and 2015 decided to do the information but in 12 months this year. So, the Council of Ministers made a decision on 17 June 2015 to make information for the period 1-12.2015. A year. I don't think it was the House of Representatives at the time, so we were probably looking for a quarterly cut because it was already on its way, because they were starting to prepare for the budget. And we received this information here, I will remind us here, on 17/06/2016, a much-consumed budget for 2016, already here today we should have discussed information that, for a quarterly period, probably 1-6/2016, should show us the budget reserve spending on this budget for 2016. And the question is, what is the purpose of today's debate? In addition to repeating what we used to say a long time ago, or what most of us said when Budget adopted for 2016 when it came to the reserve, that is, this exclusiveness that members of the Presidency have, that is, the chairman of the two vice-presidents, or they had 2014 for spending the funds, actually in 2015. Here, I'm going to take us back to thinking about making that budget, and 79 say, it seems to me that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and two of his deputies lost the right to these funds, the other members of the Presidency. What's important is, here's why I voted against this information, but what's important is to say if we go into the cost analysis of these funds, that all those financial audit recommendations, impact audits, are not respected at all by the beneficiaries of the budget reserve funds. We, will remind us, through the analysis of the financial reports of state institutions, have greatly criticised the directors of institutions where we have had observations in this regard, why they are doing it, asked them to do the papers, some of them were even assessed with a negative assessment, but here when we enter into the cost analysis of these funds we see that there are privileged people to get the funds, to spend them as they please, not to meet, to make up the criteria themselves, etc. The only thing left for Budget 2016 is to act on Article 17. Law on the financing of institutions and Article 13. The budget law of the BiH institutions and to sort of abolish these exclusions. It takes budget reserves, but it doesn't need to be given to non-profit organisations. I think that, and that, within, means, those who spend the budget money of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina there are those who have the exclusion that they can spend as much as they want and give it to whoever they want, so we need as representatives of the people to respond to such illogicalities and to create a system in which the spending of funds will be first tansparent and will be spent by those who, through the work in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, bring good to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14460	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14461	I'm going to try to cut it short in a few just sentences, because if it went into the analysis of what we were about to do, it would go too far. I'm just asking if the errors in individual institutions appear three times as beneficiaries of the budget reserve? I hope you've looked at it three times, that's very interesting. Is it a mistake to allocate funds by ethnicity? These are government-level budget reserves. I have a pragmatic question and I would ask you who you are in the College to make an effort through the Council of Ministers to deliver to us who, and how many budget reserves are at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the circumstances will show that some who are listed here as beneficiaries of the budget reserves appear at the level of the state, at the level of the entity, at the level of the municipality, and in the Federation they are fortunate and also at the level of the canton, so they appear four times, five times. So, I own it, I've made an effort to get that data, but in order for the public to know how many total budget reserves are in this country I'm asking for reports to be collected and made a full report on the use of government budget reserves. So we're going to come up with very, very, very nice, sort of a discussion of nice data. And what my esteemed colleague mentioned about schooling, great that you mentioned it, I have a reason why I'm saying this, but here we only have from, here from the budget reserves at the state level, it would be interesting if anyone were paying for the planes to pick up kids who are going to school outside. On the other hand, we have “holding thieves. ” Where there's no basis, but we write, we make, we make journalists, we write everything and trains pass. Who pays rents apartments? Who pays the bodyguards? And so in order, and so on. And then the manifestations, I can't come to myself that from the government budget reserves we have a grant in these manifestations, I can't come to myself. Not to say that it is the degradation of the cultural mile in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is a misrepresentation of 80 real creations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Funding publishing activity, which isn't even local, but God Bog it belongs to one mahala, but someone financed it. I ask, once again, for this to enter the stenogram, to collect the allocations from the budget reserves at all levels and to present to the public, states, entities, cantons and municipalities, and that everyone can see that this is not about 900,000, my Emriću, but from 900,000 times, dear Bog knows how much money. And that's what this country is, this is just one worm that's parting, only one worm like this is countless. And when the worm crawls into the beam that carries the roof he eats it and the roof falls, and this worm gets fat into all the pores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14462	Thank you. No more charges for discussion, closing the debate. We're going to the 17th agenda, that's Ad. 17. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 15.06.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge that, no later than 90 days after the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the report on the implementation of the Agreement establishing Bosnia and Herzegovina's public corporations (Anex 9. The Dayton Peace Agreement), with a proposal for an action plan for the application of that Agreement, shall act No 01-50-1-1694/16. The House College has appointed the Commission for Transport and Commons as the committee responsible for considering this initiative. The competent Commission submitted its opinion on the initiative on 12.07.2016. The Commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Denis Bećirović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14464	Dear Deputy Chairman Džaferović, ladies and gentlemen. So, the initiative has been delivered in accordance with the relevant business provisions, it has passed the procedure until today's session. The Transport and Communications Commission held a serious debate on the initiative itself, and I thank my colleagues in the Transport and Communications Commission who, as I was told, unanimously accepted and adopted this initiative ahead of this session. The issue of public corporations and the establishment of public corporations in Bosnia and Herzegovina no doubt deserves one serious, perhaps a little wider elaborate. At this stage, however, I have chosen to adopt it into a condensed, I would say, a way to formulate this initiative without any excess or lack of words and then hopefully after that, when we adopt it today at the House of Representatives, we get a serious analysis of the subject by the competent authority and the Council of Ministers of BiH, to get a review of the facts and ultimately one action plan to apply it. The complete initiative, therefore, is not based on anything arbitrary, but solely on the content of the Dayton Peace Agreement and its Annex IX. I remind my colleagues, therefore, that this initiative does not prejudge anything, so it requires one serious approach, and to start getting all relevant information so that we can open a serious debate on this subject. In the end, as Bosnia and Herzegovina's political scene literally makes me believe that this initiative, which exclusively calls for the provisions of Dejton, will also be adopted today.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14465	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for this agenda hearing, so I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 18, Ad. 18. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-341/15, of 04.03.2016) The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was adopted at the 31st session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.06.2016, and at the 21st session of the House of People, held on 14.07.2016. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and it is necessary to appoint three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve identical text. For members of the Joint Commission, the College of the House proposes MPs: Nermina Kapetanović, Jovan Vukovljak and Nikola Lovrinović. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving to agenda number 19, that's Ad. 19. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and road registration devices (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-134/15, from 01.03.2016)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14469	I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not here right now, but here I will remind at least those MPs and MPs that this is a 550m-euro debt that the governments in Bosnia and Herzegovina want burdens on citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we thought nothing could come worse than what Željka Cvijanović and Nermin Nikšić and Vjekoslav Bevanda signed, we now see that it can obviously do worse than that. So I'm just going to take some of the examples of someone who's... with what counterpart Aleksandra Pandurević said that I'm not interested in borders, entities, anything, but we're going to see what's been suggested here to do. Here we first see a reduction in the size of governments and an improvement in the quality of government spending. So there's especially interesting here... Mr. Đonlagić, so he also says something when we talk about what a reduction is, and I'm going to talk about Tuzlan Canton. So you have the employment of 260 people without competition, without any, in institutions to the budget, it's about wives, sons, daughters of SDA and SBB officials, so that's a reduction in spending and a reduction in governmental, governmental bodies. So, there's a reduction, means the ministries, a cut in the ministry, but that means nothing that can bring about, but you can only see what from what it means to this coalition, especially in the Federation what the SDA and the SBB are doing. As for what he's planning, we've seen today's attempt, the first attempt to introduce oil excises and oil derivatives. That's also what was planned in this letter of intent is the introduction of excise alcohol. So that means everything, and beer, and wine, and everything there is, means a new excise, and everything for what they say, stabilising health funds, means as a means for health funds. And the question is who destroyed those funds, who destroyed clinical centres, which is why we have blocked accounts, who are these managers who have been running clinical centres for 20 years, who are seducing health insurance, who have private companies operating with these health care institutions, who are operating with clinical centres, and which requires the stabilisation of the health, health insurance system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there's also talk about positive effects, meaning some positive burdens, as they say, reducing the contribution to wages and this, but we don't see it. All those measures that are seen here and which have started to implement this coalition leading to the shut-down of production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to the shut-down and destruction and so on and the small number of private enterprises that exist, lead to an increase in the cost of living supplies, lead to a reduction in the consumption of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all and lead to the total collapse of this country, if something like this goes on. So, it simply won't remain private enterprises, there won't be any production in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, it won't survive, we started, now as I look at it, we also touched the development banks, it's still going to the hands of large capital or foreign banks operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the primary function of the Federation of BiH Development Bank is lifted, although it wasn't so 100% used because it financed everything and everything, party presidents, building towers, means party farmers. But there were also opportunities for private firms to come to capital at low interest. Through this 83, which is also signed by the Federation's prime minister, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Republika Srpska's prime minister, abolished the role of lending private enterprises by the Development Bank. What was founded by the Federation and the Federation Parliament's government is being abolished, so there are no more, no more, no more, no more, these credits at more favourable interest and are heading towards commercialisation of development banks in both entities. This will also come, meaning that private firms are condemned to banks operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we know what interest is and how they operate, which are conditions for obtaining credit at all. So if you list this document... this letter of intent, so you have so many things that are crucial things that, let's say, they're negotiating right now, right here, I'm going to look back at the Federation, because there are certain negotiations with farmers, with fighting organisations, although here it's strictly said that the incentives of farmers will be reduced, subsidies mean farmers will be reduced by 5 million KM. They're being abolished, so, any... this coalition will refrain from amending and supplementing laws that regulate any fighting giving. So there is simply nothing positive and all that this government of the SDA, SBB, HDZ does, I will again remain on the Federation, it leads only to the separation of the state, the destruction of the economic potentials, which are so small, and the lectures of this country are totally in the hands of large capital, and of which only the ruling elite that has destroyed all of that in the last 20 years will benefit from it, and without getting out of it any consensus and that anyone is responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14470	Thank you very much. I'm closing the hearing because I don't see any more reports. We're going to the 21st agenda, that's Ad. 21. Conclusion on the establishment of the Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the Study of Origin of Functions in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-34-1959/16, since 15.07.2016 You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14472	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an initiative-proposed question to ask. It is, in fact, the conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the Study of Origin of Functions in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – was Interresor Working Group left to define what they are, what is meant by officials, to what level are officials, and from which level are they not further? In particular, I'm saying what certain directors of the agencies and I don't know either are civil servants, their deputies, people in very responsible places. So is this left to the Interresor Working Group or are they defining the term functionors, or are we supposed to define today when adopting the conclusion? Thank you very much. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14473	Thank you. Mrs. Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14474	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course it was left to the Interresor Working Group and we had no intention of suggesting any solutions for one reason we want a consensus, we want a solution. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as the SDS's stand is concerned, we are in favour of including ministerial assistants, including the directors of the agencies, but we need to be aware that we need the hands of others here to adopt any solution. And certainly we are ready for what our fellow workers, who will participate in the task force, will accept. Of course, there are necessarily elected and appointed officials, and this is not just the case, which is seen from the conclusion, it is not just about the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets, it is on the task force to assess and to find solutions whether it is necessary to amend BiH Criminal Law, or also the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, so that every 4 years when we hand over our property records nicely, by automatedism, if we are shown a disproportionate relationship between the reported incomes and assets that we have increased to the Prosecutor's Office by, based on these amendments to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Criminal Law Agency automatically opens an investigation and raises the question of verifying our property, the issue of criminal responsibility and the issue of confiscation of that property.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14475	Thank you. Mr. Šemsuin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14476	Thank you, Chairman. I certainly support this kind of initiative and finally remove the mortgage from those doing public work, i.e. making a combination of policies and businesses. It is obvious that we will have problems here in the precise and clear definition of the tasks of this Interresor Working Group, because here in the title I think it would be much more convenient, more favourable or whatever you want, to be the Law on the Study of Origin of Officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina... Bosnia and Herzegovina, why not. each person shall make an account if he is engaged in public work, if he performs any public duty, public function, politics, etc., and so on, so that he may choose to make an account to the public and BH to the citizens from where, and in what way he has acquired the property. Therefore, I strongly support this one initiative, and I will certainly contribute to seeing this legal solution see the light of the day at least in this part of the mandate that remains for us over the next two years. Therefore, I think the time has finally come to propose, not just before the elections, initiatives like this. Here, let the task force have one broad mandate to propose a legal solution that will cover as many as possible those doing public work on behalf of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14477	Thank you. 85 Mr. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14478	Thank you very much. Uh, I don't mind, of course, that the Interresor Working Group determines, uh, the level, means who the functionators are. I just want to suggest, that whoever is in the task force that this coverage goes beyond the level of elected and appointed officials, because I think that at other levels there are also very drastic cases, and it would not be correct to those appointed and chosen to cause this, all of the haika, this is what you will believe in the public and very loud debate, in fact, to be reduced only to that level. That's why I'm doing it, and my suggestion means going towards this, of course I'll be very happy to support this initiative, and I think it's also serious, and that it can also have results that, I can put some kind of trust in, so if you want to do our work here and in the work of all the institutions involved.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14479	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14480	In the wake of what counterpart Novaković is, he is in a similar direction as counterpart Novaković was saying, so also counterpart Mehmedović, I think why is he limiting himself, why this could not be in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because those who are at lower levels of government should not be spared and their hands pushed into the state budget. So there are cases like that. So let's put this broadly and... I support it, but I don't support it, I don't support it going on forever, that it's going to be in the mud and the working group and the volume and the media, and that it's resulting in the same teachings being seen again by those who are smooth thieves, the smooth thieves from the ranks of politicians, who are very willing to talk about honesty, about fighting for the people, about the state, and the hands on all sides of the budget, and those who press it. If this takes too long, no effect will be achieved, so I ask you to look at this and finally get one, two, three Bosnian Sanaders Sanader where they belong and then clear this up a little bit. Everything else is a contradiction. And so I ask the Proposer not to bid me, to give me some time frame that... _________(?) Saša [[no microphone turned on]] Well, that's exactly what I'm trying to say, which is shorter than this, because this isn't a six-month job if there's a will to do it. I think this can be done in half of this time frame if there's a will. If there isn't give them five years they won't do it again or find a reason why something can't. And let's get this over with... I don't want to be starved like we look at the eyes of those who, unfortunately, are political people and have unfortunately dragged their hands into longer pockets and budgets. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14482	Thank you very much. 86 Mr. Lazar Prodanović,...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14483	...the chairman, but I have a reserve of intent and I think this is more the dominant bill on populist relations legislative function. I do not believe that the Republic of Croatia had a law on the examination of the origin of the property and significant steps in this regard did. It was recently done by Montenegro and Serbia. The S.H.I.E.L.D. prevents Bosnia and Herzegovina from doing this based on... legislation in accordance with jurisdiction. What I don't have a reservation for, so I don't have the reserves that the chosen and appointed officials have to give public insight into their property records and that any discrepancies of ownership over property with property records must be subject to criminal responsibility, or investigation. We can do a hundred laws like this now, they will absolutely mean nothing in the odos of the determined commitment of the investigative structures, so both the prosecutions and courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina to deal with this. Normally, it has significantly devastated the full public function in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first perception is corruption and anything, but I don't see why the Law of Conflict of Interest would not be placed on a higher level of responsibility, in terms of falsifying data from it, and that each, therefore, each elected and appointed official is held accountable as well as everyone. Why else would we define that in any way? And yet, if we pass this Law,... how will its application and implementation be, in that sense, that most directly be, uh, implemented certain provisions unless it is the criminal legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the way it was established, then no law now protects any thief. The question is whether we have, under number 1), so we shouldn't have a political determination reserve, under number 2) the functioning of the rule of law and the rule of law for anyone who bears responsibility. So I think that we can only spend time in this Interresor Working Group, nothing will be achieved, here is the key to commitment and the moment Bosnia and Herzegovina begins to open chapters is the degree of responsibility, all as we get closer to being larger. Niko one's stopping us from being very effective now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14484	Thank you very much. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14485	I thank the Honorable Chairman. First of all, to my colleague Lovrinović, aizaso, I would say why the deadline is six months. Well, it's a month's vacation, a month's campaign, when certainly the task force won't work. So it's been two months since we formed a task force we don't have. As for the claim made by the esteemed Mr. Prodanović, you know we tried to pass this law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And I remember the president at the time, Mr. Radojičić said he was anti-constitutional. Why is it anti-constitutional? Because he introduced something that allows for an examination of the origin of the property, which is, he introduced that you must prove the origin, or all of us, the origin of your property. Now in our criminal legislation, so you don't have to, you can increase your property by 1 term by 10 million, there's no basis for an investigation unless someone reports you've committed some kind of felony and you've acquired it, and it brings concrete evidence. Niko one obliges you to prove the origin of your property and no prosecution, no court has the right to seek it. We obviously need something like that, because the fact that in this country many have acquired incredible assets, incredible wealth, so it's enough, please, the property records of some 87 politicians to look at, and there's no basis for any sort of investigation. No Niko reported them for a felony, no one has any evidence of a specific crime, no one has reported them for a specific set-up tender, no one has reported them for corruption because there's no evidence of that. And they don't have to prove it, leave the aunt from America, from Australia, or simply say – what do you care. Prove that I committed a crime. Well, here he'll have to prove how he got it, I think it's the interest of all those who didn't drag their hands where he didn't have to finally and make a difference between us because he's not yours either, I know Mr. Prodanović and I come from the same environment, I know that he belongs to that category of honest and honest politicians. It's not your interest that they put us all in the same basket, no matter what party we come from, there's a difference between us and knowing who's stealing, who's not, who's unfairly carrying a mortgage and who's supposed to be responsible for what he's been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14486	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14487	I'll be brief after I've applied for the discussion, Mr. Prodanović and Mrs. Pandurević. There is a legal framework, tax evasion is a criminal offence, unpaid tax does not have to be reported, it may, under official duty, work by the authorities, the Tax Administration, the prosecution, etc. And I agree, I will support your position and your suggestion. A series of laws defines this. Only a series of institutions and those who are competent do not work and it is necessary to do so, and, of course, in the experience of this spread it, because obviously those who are obliged to work do not. So we have the Mine in Kaknju blocked and the former director has 500 dulms of land, and miracles done, but he can do it, and so on, that I don't list examples all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14488	Thank you very much, I'm sorry, we had some brief consultation. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14489	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate the initiative of the distinguished MPs, but I personally think it should have been expanded. And I agree with my colleague Magazinović when he said that he needed a task force to do it, fundamentally define who it would concern. Of course we can't forget the directors of the agencies, especially the advisors. And I agree that all levels of government should be covered, but the question, perhaps some... that no one is talking about in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are billionaires, should be discussed. But we come to the old ones, you, Mr. Chairman, remember the initiative in the House of Peoples when I referred to the Council of Ministers as a delegate in the House of Peoples of the Parlametary Assembly of BiH a request for the adoption of the Law on Personal Identification Number when the then Minister of Civil Affairs was resolutely rejected. It is our obligation on the European path and there will be... tasks, and Croatia has already done this... already in the pre-accession period, so in 2008, they passed the law, and we know when Croatia became an EU member. Why was I looking then? If then the minister of civil affairs had accepted... to bring that number would not have been possible inflow of income to any person in Bosnia and Herzegovina and would have remained hidden. So, it's a number that would protect 88 privacy of one person, which requires the European Commission from us, but it would be impossible to hide income on any basis, it would be a hidden identity, it would be impossible not to pay taxes and in the fight against corruption this would be a very significant law. Croatia has also made significant moves in the segment. At the time, there was no will in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to bring, or the Council of Ministers primarily, but I think this is a challenge for this Council of Ministers to make the law and have a thorough insight, so only a certain narrow number of people will have insight into the incomes of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including elected officials. So, not only elected officials, but all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there would be no possibility of multiple use of money under one right, and we just have that kind of use, especially in the Federation in the Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection. And I support these discussions by my colleagues who advocate this, but I think the name should have been changed and the name expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14490	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14491	Dear colleague Pandurević... I, therefore, grew up here and lived here, was of age when there was a similar law in the former country. If you remember that, no matter what, it was a more decorated country, it was a party country, but... We're more of a party than a democratic country. [[You don't understand what he's saying.]] Everything, I'm not talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm talking about the environment. The law was only in the function of political accounts of the Neum and Agrokomerac affair, i.e.... If you remember, I apologize for mentioning this now, I'm afraid if we don't strengthen institutions, so judicial institutions, investigative institutions and the rule of law in this country there's no additional parallelism in the law... Furthermore, there is no citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at this point every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so... for every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a central database on financial transactions in the mark. There's no dilemma, absolutely no dilemma. What prevents institutions that require personal information today when you pay... 100 marks in cash to examine the origins of money to someone who's acquired a fabulous fortune without that money going through legal flows and that... his receipts. So there is no determination to enforce the law. Do we now have this decision, I don't think we're going to do anything...... our political stance and I am very much respecting it and I absolutely support it. So to examine the origin of any property, in accordance with the existing law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think there are any obstacles. But it would be good to hear from the important ministries in the Council of Ministers and from the important institutions what their attitude is to this. ... The strategy in the fight against corruption and crime has not started a first step that would be, not one step apart from several spectacular actions that are largely liberating after the end. [[You don't understand what he's saying.]] So, in that sense, I have a reservation for this initiative. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14492	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14493	It's a good way to go, but it's a very narrowing and wrong comparison. In that state and that law we persecuted and sought the origin of property from people who made houses of up to 100 m2, to 100. The larger houses had landowners in their villages than the ones they were asked to. This is shown by Neumsko settlement, from Mesihovic and beyond. Today it's all about other things, but I'll talk about it in a discussion, other things entirely. There was something going on at that time because of the general euphoria that we all live equally. So from, I won't mention any more names, remember Director Šipad, remember Director Unis Incel, remember director Čajevac, remember the director, the only one who didn't pass that phase was Emerik Blum, the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14494	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14495	A member of his colleagues also made Bosnia and Herzegovina's parallels with the former SFRY by discussing the subject. I think it's hard to pull such parallels, it's one completely different system of values was and there's a reason why I'm saying it. I must say, and admit, there are rare moments when my political views match some of the proposals coming from the SDS, however, there are times like this. My political principle of action was and remained to take care of not which party proposed something, which MP or MPs suggest something, but exclusively about what the content of what was proposed. And, look at the wonders, I stood up to say that I fully support the content of this conclusion. What I would add is probably the subject of some of our next discussions, in order to be additionally credible in this, maybe to agree that through the Interresor Working Group and into the law of one provision we will start this story from us from the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and then on. In the end, and for a few discussions of the other colleagues, I must say that I am not for any divorce of this topic. It is currently on the agenda only to conclude that we are forming an Interresor Working Group. SDP, the whole club will certainly vote yes. When we form the Interresor Working Group, I guess we'll all try to make the content of the law as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14496	Thank you. Discussion, Diana Zelenika.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14497	I thank all those present, even though we are now in a small number, I warmly welcome. I'll just be brief, we're all tired, but what I want to say is that in this election year, most of the debates are about proving who's a bigger Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, who's a bigger traitor, who prefers Bosnia and Herzegovina or entities, etc., and in this case, thousands of marks are paid for the soup kitchen, for a voting machine called the religious institution of 30 to 50, which we could see from the previous report. I sincerely hope that one of these laws will see 90 light days and that it will not just serve for daily shallow purposes. And I myself have been working on the thought of setting up an initiative for a law like this, but as I was alone... I expected the opposition not to be accepted and that I would be misunderstood that it was for some kind of political purpose, and that is why I am very glad that my colleague Pandurević proposed a law like this in front of his club. However, here are some colleagues, especially colleagues Novaković, who said that we are not limited to institutions alone, but to officials throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to add something more – not just officials, but also members of the family of these officials, because we have all been able to read very often in the media that it is not property of officials, but father or father. It means that it is the property of immediate family members who, by the way, have done the job of locksmiths or miners with great honor, feeding multiple families. So I think this contribution of mine would be very important to include those rope members of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14498	Thank you. Amir Fazlić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14499	Well, here's how I see it, there's one political consensus for all of us to form this Interresor Working Group, and now something new to say after all these discussions is really art. What I'm trying to say is that this initiative in its own name could have, to suffer one change after all these discussions, to be the conclusion that it would be the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the creation of a Law on the Study of Origin of Assets, and a point, and an Interresor Working Group, considering all the laws, where they overlap, where, where the problems and others are defined by certain priorities, although I would not exempt anyone from this law for a number of reasons. Vika is up to us politicians and needs us first... we don't run away, but my people, they talked here some colleagues... become overnight, 5 employees, incomes this big, this big... talk, isn't that crime. Where do the budgets come from? It's all about our pensions, our health care, everything. We're getting trains. Well, that's why I'm... and I think I can talk on behalf of the SDA Club... and this... part, and, uh, I'm kidding, they confirm that we support this. And I think that colleague Pandurević can accept this, to delete this from the name of the property of the officials, she'll be the first one there when we form an Interresor Working Group today, I don't see any problem here. There are written people sitting here, politically educated, they know how to make the law, they know where the problems are, they've created a lot of laws, and this can be done very quickly. Why run away from this? And don't let this be a pre-election fleet at all, let it go now. And we from the U.S.A. will immediately if, and I think we're being followed by one place on this committee as a party that's been in power for a long time, and I don't think anyone will mind, and we already have a candidate to propose. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14500	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14501	I will support this initiative and I would say the same as Denis, and I hope that the Interressor Working Group will define and extend, not just to the chosen ones. But let's get back to this, which is why we need this. I don't know, of course, who, how and how he communicates, I'm going to make a part of a 91 conversation that I recently had with officials from the EU. After that, someone from the U.S. My happiness or misfortune is that I communicate directly with them, which obviously there is no hearing in this House what I speak in languages. And they asked me if I knew how many billionaires there are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they have it. And we have their presses waiting for us to do all things. The sooner we get into something, the sooner we get rid of that press. I said I don't know and I don't believe there's one. I've been told that there are indisputable nine billionaires and that each of them is richer than biti Gejts. I was surprised, I stayed in wonder as far as possible from biti Gejts. Very, he says, simply, none of them work in the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but take it to work in the whole area, it's a 3.5m market. Bill Gates is working on a market of over seven billion. Each one of them is richer or more financially... or richer than biti Gejts, so it's 9. Those who own over 100 million active capital are over 100, millionaires over 500 on the 3.5 million market. That's very interesting. I asked why you asked me. And it says, "You're involved in politics." I don't have any contact with these people. But you're communicating with them, and here it says, it's not familiar. It's not. Well, he says most of them are deeply involved in politics. And I don't want to suspect us, so let's see who those are who are involved in politics. So this is, I measurely claim that I spoke to them, that they're strangers and that this is how it was presented to me. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He tells us, don't worry, they'll tell us all about it when the time comes. Every time they tighten us up when they need to. And that's why the incomparable category of that system and this system is incomparable. This is a system without a system, this is a system where you systematically rob it all over, this is a system where everything is systemically prepared for this political oligarchy to be something that lives and deaths will be managed by people. This is a system no longer in Neume, but without faith and nation buying in the Emirates, in Qatar, in Dubai, Cape Verde, all of this was listed to me, in Španija, and now they've come to buy slowly in Cannes, Nice. So we're strong, there's never been a larger number of yachts, now they're racing whether it's a yacht of 16, 21 or 28 meters, they're racing. It has come to the point of making dry ties in Bosnia and Herzegovina as many yachts as there are because they are large, large. And there is no more faith or nation, that applies to both the Republic of Serbia and the Federation, to everything. You even have special connections in Montenegro that are called banaluk embroidery. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14504	Thank you. You're spreading optimistic news, nine people richer than biti Gejts, I think it could be hope in our prosperity. Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14505	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I immediately, so as not to forget, I suggest that my colleague Backović be in this task force because he has this number, list and this one, it will be easier to do and I don't mind, right now, saying that I'm up for this story, but here I came from, I didn't mean to, but I answered because of the discussions we had here and they immediately caused different comments, and some started defending the former system, some of it pink, etc. I think we've gone too wide and there's no big difference between these two systems when it comes to crime and corruption and that he has his own same identical constant and that in principle people who have leaned on power, so you can see it by their families from the former system, from the present system, that it's basically not about the poor and, therefore, that's what here is, uh, you should say. It is true that, as one of our colleagues said, we also have current applicable laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are very high-quality but that we do not have some large or more general investigations that occur when it comes to crime and corruption, which is the result of property, not only by politicians, but also by those who rely on politics or who have an indirect or direct benefit from it. As far as I could hear from the media, I read somewhere that the biggest crime stories were around Secretary Marina for about 5,000, I think, and Alkalaj 5,000. So it's very funny, while what goes past us, that is, past all those who deal with it, and the police and prosecutors, mostly ends up at some point when someone determines when they're going to stop, since everyone in this country has their own cops, prosecutors, judges, and in principle they're ruling that space, and that's how they function this whole time. I don't know if this conclusion needs to be defined, someone's already been mentioned, as far as it goes, is it, whether it's the former system of that communist so let's see what the results of their grandchildren' assets are, etc., who... live well, because some of them I know, are those who are retired from a democratic system that also have assets that are not..., that should be examined, and whether these are current officials who are sitting here today in this room on this one side or... here. So these are all questions and perhaps I am speaking a little ironically but these are questions that need to be defined and should be clearly explained what would be the task of this working group. Don't let it end up on these things, cartoons from investigations like it did with our colleague Marina and former Minister Alkalaj. So it's one mask same communist that was – you have a house back apartment, which is, so one wing that was and then someone added – you have a house back apartment you have... So that's what we could see in the past system in this we see that they are judging for 5,000 marks, for what millions are, and as my colleague Backović said and billionaires, or, I don't know, millionaires, etc., etc. This is a serious problem for our country, this is the most serious problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, crime and corruption that results in property benefits, property that today is not only for people who are dealing with politics, but I am afraid that I will not call on successful people in this country who are making a fair profit of their money. But you should also see all those who, in any way, have property that is in proportion to what would... their source of funds, I'm afraid not to call those who have earned it fairly, but I agree that politics, politicians, are current, will be the first. But it doesn't need to stop, it needs to be, it needs to be wider and wider and more comprehensive. Thank you very much. And in the end, you might consider the conclusion, I didn't propose it here, why don't the Council of Ministers make that law. But there, that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14506	Thank you. Mr. Backović here says it's your third correction to the wrong quote. 93 Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14507	Shortly again, colleagues to Ahmetović, uh, as he said not to end up at Minister Pendeš and Minister Alkalaj. You know how many open cases there are in the BiH Prosecutor's Office about people who have acted in power, directorial positions that don't end. And among other things, the blame for that lies with your party, so also the people who appoint prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14508	Thank you. I'm finishing the debate. __________ [[no microphone turned on]] No, Mr. Backović already had three. Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14510	For the first time, I have heard that the SDA appoints prosecutors, I have not read in our statutes of the party, nor in the law, that the U.S.A. appoints prosecutors. So, it's known to be called prosecutors, so who's to name them and in what way. And there's no reason, so I, too, basically people, honest people and those who want an active fight against organised crime and corruption, don't share it on the party line, so to those who want it or who don't want it. And that's the principle of how I look at that thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14511	Thank you. We're finishing up a debate on this point. Now we move on to international contracts. We will vote on uniting the debates on points 22 to 24. Prepare to vote. For 28, abstention 8, no. It means that a proposal has been adopted to bring together the debate on points 22 to 24. Ad. 22. - 24. Giving consent to ratification of contracts and agreements I'm opening a debate on these three points. Here you go. So Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 94 I know that these agreements are mostly held at the end of the session rarely when or almost never to talk, but agreements are of international character and have passed a certain procedure. And I wasn't sure myself, so when we come to them, if there's anything we want to intervene whether it's just take it or leave it. So, I tried to inform myself about it, and I am in the agreement when it comes to this last item of 24th, which is the ratification of the Agreement with the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Regional Housing Programme, so I found in this Agreement Article 8 in which they allow, i.e. this Agreement, an amendment action on this material. However, I am not sure, therefore, whether Parliament can make an amendment today, but I am on the verge of trying to act on Article 4, thus not contesting the adoption of this Agreement with the fact that, as I have understood here, Article 8 of the amendment may also be agreed later between the partners, so which the Agreement has concluded. I would therefore suggest that Article 4 in point 4.2, when it says so, be in accordance with Article 4. 1 2 units for... projects of the Framework Agreement the partner country trusts the implementation of projects, so in the first sub-point to black, on page 5 here, the Federal Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees in the Federation of BiH and the governments of the county. Let's just add that. So that would be my proposal for a conclusion which, in some ways, would be for those who did this in the procedure that... was made in some way the proposed amendment, if we adopt it. I think that's the way it works. If you think it's different, I don't know. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Agreement may be amended by means of a written amendment that concludes... and a partner country, it becomes me. I think this conclusion could... be considered.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14514	So, as far as international agreements are concerned, all the acts that come here for ratification have passed the whole procedure and been initialled. So we're in phase, we decide to take or reject, there's no amendment phase, there's no turning back again. We can throw it away and then get back into the debate over certain issues. So, as far as I know, we don't have here likely representatives of the Ministry of Finance who might... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There is. That's what I said. Well, yeah, I know about before life how it goes. So, Nikola Lovrnović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14516	So I'm reading Article 8 of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14517	You see, it's only when the Agreement is adopted, when the Agreement is adopted then...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14518	But the agreement will be adopted today, however, this conclusion will be for those who have implemented this procedure to act on it when it is adopted and confirmed, as it says the agreement can be amended through a written amendment that concludes... and a partner country. Then what's this article gonna do, then it can't be done. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14519	All right, all right. Is there any further?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14520	Then what will he remain in this Agreement?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14521	But Nikola, it's possible to conclude the amendment after we've done this, the change...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14522	Well, yes, but today I propose an amendment. Therefore, confirming the Agreement and immediately proposing the conclusion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14523	No, this isn't, you see, this isn't an amendment phase, you can run an initiative, you can talk to the Ministry...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14524	How.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14525	So here, start an initiative on the Ministry of Finance to initiate a procedure under that article on the amendment, I don't know, that and that, but after we adopt that Agreement. So this member can be activated after the adoption of Sproazum. Is there more? Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14526	If I can explain, uh, we've heard today several times that this will now be confirmed by the Agreement, we will only give consent to ratification, and ratification is carried out by the BiH Presidency. So, even today when we give consent, and the House of Peoples that consent to the Constitution of BiH only on the basis of this consent, the Presidency receives this and ratifys the Agreement. So we are a country where the Parliamentary Assembly gives its consent to ratification, and the Presidency is an organ that actually has ratification. Therefore, the agreement will not come into force until the presidency has ratified it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We can't, because we're just gonna give them the consent to do something.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14528	Well, then there's no need... 96
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14529	Okay, look, we're one link in the chain, so the situation is that we don't negotiate in contracts, but we confirm or reject them.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14530	No, we give consent to confirm.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14531	And I think to her, come on. Come on, uh, is there anyone else registered? If I don't finish this item on the agenda. And please, so we'll vote in half an hour, but you see, there's a reason for that, I'm calling on club presidents to keep it here on the scene of the extended college, there's a reason why, if there's no one from the president can replace it with a member of the club. I'm asking you to come over here to the board, so let's talk some more. Please take your seats, take the voting procedure. So, please make sure you're all registered. So, more MEPs to register, so let's get going with the vote. So we go to the first item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes from the 32nd session of the House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14533	With an objection.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14534	With an objection. So, for 35, there is no, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority, a record was adopted. Second item – The adoption of the minutes with the 5th and 6th emergency session of the House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the minutes of the 5th and 6th emergency sessions. So – for 35, abstentions 2. There's a general and entity majority, we've adopted the protocols. We are going to vote on the 7th item of the agenda – The request of MPs Borislav Bojić, Nermina Kapetanović, Lazar Prodanović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vražalica, Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović to discuss the proposal for an addition of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1788/16, from 28.06.2016. We're voting on the adoption of the House College's conclusion. 97 Do you know what this is about?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14535	We know, we know.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14536	Please vote. For 34, v. 1, abstention 2. There is a general and entity majority, the College's conclusion has been adopted and therefore we do not go to further voting on urgency and on the very proposal for a conclusion. We're going to point 8. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1417/16, since 13.05.2016 (second reading). First we vote on the amendment of MP Nikola Lovrinović. For 5, versus 27, abstentions 5. There is no general majority, the amendment is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal for an amendment of the Staša Košarac. ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There is only one proposal to amend the SNSD Club. For 4, versus 14, abstention 19. There is no general majority, no amendment accepted. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. For 21, against 15, abstention 1. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go straight to the second round? We're going straight to the second round of voting. _________(?) Please repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14539	Repeat the vote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-07-19-0.u14540	So we have a request to repeat the vote again. 98 For 21 versus 16. There is no, against Republika Srpska 11, there is no, therefore, a condition for acceptance, the law has been rejected. [[/Dispute in College.]] So all MPs from Republika Srpska voted. We're moving on nine. – Statement of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on a Prosecution Procedure before the Court of Justice – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-609/16, since 18.03.2016. We vote on setting a new deadline for the delivery of the 60-day report. For 25, against four, abstention eight. There's a general and entity majority, the deadline is extended. Point 10. – Proposal for a Law on Volunteer Activities organised by associations and foundations, churches and religious communities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1187/16, since 27.06.2016 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 22 for, against 11, abstention four. There's no entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second circle? We're going to the second round right now. For 21, against 11, abstention 5. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska, so we rejected the bill. Point 11. – Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – submiter: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01,02-37-1581/16, from 01.06.2016. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 15, against 11, abstention 11. There is no entity majority in the Federation. Shall we go straight to the second round? We're going to the second round of voting. _________(?) Can it happen again?
