ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-1.u21387	The extended College agreed to open immediately, on the basis of 15 MPs' signatures, a new emergency session with only one item on the agenda – voting on the tv service, charge fees, which is in the second reading due to the emergency session request. So, in order not to call an emergency session, we agreed to finish it right now, open a session and hold a vote. The draft agenda is – The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Public TV System of BiH – is proposed by MEPs: Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić. So it's a point that is not intended for discussion at all, it's about the second round of voting on the law, and I'm asking you to prepare for a vote. They can't track computers this fast. Please prepare the hand-voting charts so we don't wait any longer. So we're voting on the law in the second reading. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. So 24 for, 10 against and no abstentions. There is a necessary entity and general majority and in the second round is passed the Law in the first reading. This closes... [[Common discussion]] So what now, I think. The 24th service counted in, 10 against. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-1.u21390	You're just cutting deadlines here and...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-1.u21391	Please, so we said that out of the two conclusions that were in the discussion at the last session, we would vote when the vote on the passage of the conclusion to the second round. We have two conclusions here on the agenda. One is Amir Fazlić and the other is Aleksandra Pandurević. I put to the vote the conclusion of Amir Fazlić. We're voting cards again, just pick up who's in favor? Mr. Kožul, if you're not in, don't. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. 20 for, 15 against. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. We're going to the second round right now. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. The score is 20 for, 13 against. From Republika Srpska there were 11 against, so more than 2/3 and no conclusion was accepted. We are now voting on the conclusion of Aleksandra Pandurević. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. The score is 10 for, 23 against. There is no general majority, and the conclusion has not passed. This concludes the sixth emergency session. Thank you. Session completed at 6:50 p.m.
