ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14780	Please take your seats to begin the session. I am opening the 35th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MP Nermina Kapetanović, and the delay was announced by MP Miroslav Milovanović. According to the Service, 38 MPs attend the session. So I figure there's a quorum to hold the session. We're moving on to the agenda. As far as the agenda is concerned, I'd like to point out the following. At the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget, points 6, 7 and 8 have been amended and are now read as follows: point 6. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1853/16, of 07.07.2016. (first reading), shortened procedure. Point 7. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1854/16, of 07.07.2016. (first reading), shortened procedure. Point 8. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and Allocation of Revenue – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1855/16, of 07.07.2016. (first reading), shortened procedure. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Denis Bećirović signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14781	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman. As I was saying on July 20th and August 1st, at the previous two sessions, again today on August 30th, I propose to this Parliament not to go deaf about the most severe post-dayton crisis in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We must be aware that the Republika Srpska entity assembly on July 15th, so 45 days ago fired a referendum missile into the very heart of the Dayton Peace Accords. And this Parliament should by no means be deafened against that fact. This must be stopped by all two legal means and I think that we as Parliament should also send a strong message. Unbound for Parliament, I expect the international community, the High Representative, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Constitutional Court to do their part of the job in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution. The situation relative to that July 20th, when I suggested that this be the point of the agenda, was further complicated. Perhaps some have naively understood what it means originally in last year's denial of language, Bosnian. They took it lightly. After denying the language, the president of the smaller BH entity has been denying an entire nation for months. In all his actions, a man speaks Srbin, Hrvat, and Musliman, a whole nation comes down to a religious group. But it was a small one, and now it's a direct blow to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, instead of building trust and tolerance, we have armored vehicles, weapons and a demonstration of armed forces. According to some information at the military exercise, I would like to hear it from the country's authorities, there were even members of the infamous "Scorpion", Serbia's MUP unit. I'd like to know if that's true. We know what this unit of Serbia's MUP was doing in the summer of 1995 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, in doing so, I also said at previous sessions, we must not take any wrong steps, we must strictly adhere to the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it must be perfectly clear who wants to break the Dayton Peace Accords unilaterally. With all this in mind, I propose that today we complete the agenda with a new agenda item: Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the illegal appointment and organisation of an anti-Dayton and anti-constitutional referendum in the Bosnian-Herzegovina entity Republika Srpska that is breaking the Dayton Peace Agreement. I deliver the proposal in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14782	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14783	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed ministers from the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. I just wanted to start by... starting around the agenda to draw attention to such announcements today... from the media, to stick to what the College agreed to be productive work. These days and the way new agenda points are announced says it's simply a miracle that 20 and more years from Dejton in such a small space,... the country is so hated, untrusted, that people turn away, that institutions have no communication, instead of being the other way around. I simply cannot be surprised that these days computers are working where only international addresses are written, and that people who are in charge of exercising power in this country do not have each other's correspondence on all open challenges issues (?). And that is why I would also like to pray today that we do not turn this Parliament into a place where hate is produced, but rather to stick to the agenda. If this is a built-up platform for campaigning, I'm afraid we'll stay long today, exchange hard words, which is not the goal of assuming anyone normal in this country, but to be at the height of the task and to work in accordance with the agenda. I think applicants for new agenda points know in advance what fate is, so by proposing points, they also address other addresses outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I don't think is meaningful. Here, just one little warning when it comes to the agenda. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14784	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14785	Well, I think Mr. Špirić and, as vice president of the SNSD, not just a state MP, is completely late with his reaction. He was supposed to discuss this and talk about the moment they declared the idea of unilaterally leaving the Dayton Peace Agreement and making anti-Dayton referendums in this country. And with the situation as it is, the state parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to discuss and see what direction this country is headed. And we are also invited, because this kind of agenda, if it remains, could first remind him of that regional series of Selo burns and the grandmother is combing, and here it would be paraphrased in a way that the state is burning and Parliament is combing. We should certainly say our position, because in this country the devil has taken the joke, and we should see how we will preserve peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because unfortunately we have war-scrapers who have set out to destroy peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course it will reflect on the whole region. And there is no obstacle and more important obligation at this point than to stop such activities. The most pressing thing for all of us MPs in this country should be, not to be guards and watch over other states, but to be guards and watch over the peaceful sleep of our children in this country. And we lead such a policy, or individuals lead such a policy, that they threaten the peaceful dream of children in this country. It's a shame. And that's what we need as elected deputies to say our position and invite all those who are pushing us into such an adventure to stop it immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14786	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14787	Well, I just wanted to start at the beginning, actually I don't, there's no need maybe for replicas, okay, if people think that we should follow Denis Bećirović's policy, I don't mind, I just wanted to work as parliamentarians today. So whoever's burning up... two years' term of office Denis is lighting a verbal fire in this unfortunate country. I'm not a fan of it. I thought that today, and I don't have to react, people have to realize that this isn't our Parliament, that everyone has to be in constitutional competence even if they didn't like something, as I don't like it. That's why I'm today... There's a lot of stories about war, I don't know how you got a young man... [[You don't understand.]] Let's stick to the agenda. There are institutions that need to do business according to the Constitution and this one. If we want to turn this today, and I'm not a fan of it, in Denis Bećirović's rhetoric okay, I just don't think it's helpful to anyone. And I think in this country there's too many unnecessary stories, too much hate, too much mistrust, to break up the country. If Denis thinks that's the right way, then he can't accuse others. Not me, I'm not into it, and here I am, and today I'm against it, but I can't stop it if most people will.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14788	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14789	Well, I just wanted to say that we should all say our opinions on this referendum, in fact, we've all said our opinions on this a long time ago. For the past month, there has been nothing to talk about in this country but a referendum, and I think that all of us have made our political views absolutely clear in both institutions and institutions, and institutions have expressed our views and indeed today's debate on this issue here is unnecessary. I also ask that we do not debate this issue, but rather limit ourselves to the existing agenda. As far as I'm concerned, of course, I'm ready for the debate, but I don't think she's going to help us here today, but simply that we, uh, are going to turn this debate into something that this country needs the least at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14790	Thank you. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14791	Mr. Chairman. I see right away that at the very beginning, therefore, today's session opens up in a way that we obviously cannot avoid, but all of us sitting here and our public in the country, so people must be aware that we as Parliament have our own responsibility and that we as elected representatives of the people have to say something about the situation in which this country is located. That is why I support the proposal and the initiative to talk about such an important thing today as Parliament. I am opposed to using this to send messages to anyone else, we have no one else in particular outside this country to send messages, and I oppose the policy that actually places us in this country or introduces us into problems of any other region, Europe, Asia or any other, as it is called, any other internal continental or regional problem. So, I think that we as elected parliamentarians here must have a position, have a grade and in some way give a picture and give a message where we should go. And what exactly is the key thing? We must show wisdom here that we are ready to, first of all, show that we know how to make this internal agreement, although we who are sitting in this House have at least participated in the least part of us being in the situation we are currently in. But the fact is that the responsible, the most responsible people in this country, so our leaders, that those with such rhetoric, the moves we now have and the moves that have led us to what we are today, so that they simply produce fears in people, that we have a situation where people in Bosnia and Herzegovina feel insecure, unstable again, they have fear. And instead of our leaders sending real messages of stabilisation, peace and some integration, our mouths are full, at least once verbally, of those European integrations. So, we're re-send messages of destabilision, unrest, gun-stuttering. And don't expect Parliament, the elected people sitting here today at this session, and as far as I'm informed here with this miserable agenda, we're not going to have any more sessions until the election, don't ask us to sit here today and act like we don't see anything, we don't know anything, and now the problem is that we're looking in some way for this institution, the largest legislative institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to say something. So, I support this proposal and I don't think we should continue to conduct a special debate on this agenda. Please accept this initiative and that based on our open conversation, we are therefore facing the right arguments and that in some way we are offering a solution to the situation in which we are. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14792	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14793	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you, colleagues and colleagues, welcome all present in the hall. So, yesterday at the College, me and Mr. Predrag Kožul tried to complement the agenda with a point that would engulf: European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. On August 23rd, this is the day that Europe, which Europe remembers with the pie, and we thought that this 30th did not go far away, since a number of European parliaments marked this in an appropriate way, we suggested, the College adopted something of that, but we remain on the proposal to supplement the point, to supplement the agenda and to be the 1st point. And we propose the title of the point as I have said, and in point, in addition to paying tribute to victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, we would suggest that one conclusion be adopted, which would read: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 23 August of the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes express compassion and pitetity towards these victims, and tasked the Committee for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to deliver the text of a declaration containing the relations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina under the following acts – the Resolution of the Council of Europe of '96. the year on measures to dispel the violence of the former totalitarian communist regimes, the 2006 Council of Europe Resolution on the condemnation of communist crimes and the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2010 on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism. Reason: The European Parliament declaration of 23 September 2008 declared the day of the agreement between Stalin and Hitler the Day of Remembrance of the victims of Stalinism and Nazism. The European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 in point 15 calls for the announcement of this day as the Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. A series of European parliaments marks this day in different ways, including by holding special sessions of parliament. This year our 35th session is very close to this Memorial day, and it would not be appropriate to ignore it and overlook it. Since we are in the year when our country's EU accession processes are significantly dynamic and are in the first plan of Parliament's activities, the symbolic importance of marking this date is even more pronounced. It is also important to highlight the need to accept the Council of Europe and the European Parliament's resolution. Up to this day, there has been an unencumbered and selective approach in Bosnia and Herzegovina's condemnation of totalitarian regimes in a way that avoids talking about the condemnation of communist totalitarianisms and their crimes. These facts are clearly warned in European documents. It would therefore be important to send out a clear message from Parliament on the acceptance of these European documents and the values contained in them without delay. One more thing to say is what the Vice-President of the European Commission, the Committee for Justice and the Commissioner for Culture said, only one part of their performance in the European Parliament. Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union signed on 23 August '39. Molotov-Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. This began one of the darkest periods in the new history of our continent in which six totalitarian regimes were deported, tortured and killed by dozens of millions of people. Although the end of World War II meant defeat of the Nazi regime for many people in Central and Eastern Europe, suffering continued under another totalitarian regime. So we suggest that this is point one, and it just makes sense like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14794	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14795	I thank the Honorable Chairman. So, Mr Lovrinović delivered here, along with his proposal to supplement the agenda, provided accompanying documentation, including what has been stated as Resolution 1481 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe since 25 January 2006. In this material, which Mr. Lovrinović delivered, under the 11th alleged Resolution writes – the Council of Europe is well positioned for such an international debate. All former European communist countries, with the exception of Belarus, BiH and Croatia, are now its members, etc. So, here in what Mr Lovrinović has delivered, reportedly Resolution 1481, writes with the exception of Belarus, BiH and Croatia. Here I am on the Web site of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, reading this Resolution in the original, and it only writes with the exception of Belarus. Also, here I am switching to the website of the legal file of the Republic of Croatia, here in the Croatian language under point 11. It also writes only except Belarus. So, what Mr. Lovrinović has delivered is either a conscious counterfeit or someone has set this up for you, but I think this is an extremely serious thing. Because, look, this is extremely relevant whether something that we put here as an alleged Council of Europe resolution stands for BiH and Croatia or not. So here I am responsible for telling you, because I am on their website, not standing, it says only Belarus, and you have delivered the paper in which it says, and yet you have put that 1481 Resolution, which states Belarus, BiH and Croatia. So, I don't know what it is, check out who this is to you, I know you as a man who wouldn't do it consciously, check out who delivered this to you, because this absolutely isn't true. So I don't think business conditions are met to discuss this at all. Also to Mr. Novaković, uh, you just said you were absolutely right, in recent months there have been only talk of a referendum, and in that story the fact that Mr. Novaković voted against the reduction of fabulous severances. Today we will vote on this law in the second round and I hope that this vote will not go unnoticed because of the referendum stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14796	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14797	So, in addition to all that my colleague Arnaut said, I wish that the motionaries had referred to the European Parliament Resolution of 07.07.2015 or 15/012009 concerning the conviction of the Srebrenica genocide and the crimes committed in Srebrenica. It's only when you put that in your initiative 7 that we'll support it. We will not support this because this is a selective and pre-election campaign that is going on in Croatia, obviously, because you are following this president of yours in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14798	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14799	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I have listened to this proposal by my colleague Lovrinović and I am not far from supporting him, but I have one request to this Parliament to exclude from the vote of the former communist in this House. [[Common discussion]] The question is, are we going to have a quorum to sit at all, and I'm sure there will be two-thirds of the MPs who can change... So, this is, I don't insult the communists but I'd like us not to be in conflict of interest because our own individual leaders, probably a good group here who sits in very high positions in the former system, and they'd also be in conflict of interest. So if you want to vote on this, I'd like them to deliver a list of former communists to us today not to vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14801	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14802	Thank you very much. So I have suggested the point of what is called the European Day of Remembrance and referred to certain documents that I am as an accompanying part of what we should have in what the Committee for Human Rights will offer. So, they can, Mr Bećirović, refer to other resolutions, but the direct occasion of the draft agenda item is August 23rd adopted by the European Parliament as such. So, I don't mind you spreading anything, whatever you want the declarations, but it's time for us to refer to this day, which Europe has established. And to add... to some other documents I am not defending our Human Rights Committee to consider any other documents. I downloaded this from the Internet, it's possible there was a mistake, I think that, me and Mr. Kožul were working together, so maybe he'll explain, maybe there was a wrong document, but it doesn't matter. So he doesn't matter, it matters what I say. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14803	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14804	I'll do it again soon. If you wanted it, you'd put it in your proposal, I'm sorry you didn't. Of course we support the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes but I think we have a lot of dates on the closer to our history that should be condemned and marked in a different way than this way that you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14805	Okay, just to remind you that this initiative, the extended College, has given the majority of votes to the Human Rights Commission for further consideration. So, Saša Magazinović, the correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14806	The initiative as such, except that, in a technical sense, it is not properly prepared, which was spoken of by fellow Arnaut, is actually a good illustration of regional events. As others deal unjustly and in an ugly way with Bosnia and Herzegovina, this Parliament is also trying to engage in a pre-election campaign in neighbouring Croatia. Those who follow the campaign and the media know that this is one of the activities on which the accent puts one of the parties in this campaign. As a descendant of someone who is a victim of the communist regime, therefore my grandfather was on the naked island, it would be logical to support something like this because that regime had a lot of good things but had its own negativity to condemn. However, in this way, as suggested, not that I cannot support it, but even I would like to ask an esteemed colleague to withdraw his own initiative, to do it the way he did himself and suggest in another time when she is ready. And in the meantime, it might be good for him to tell us, as he comes from a party that has mayors in Mostar, as long as it has arrived with the implementation of an initiative adopted by this Parliament on the change of the street name in Mostar City, since we still do not have that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14807	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14808	I don't know which way, not wanting to discuss a lot, I just want a very short one. As for the initiative and condemnation of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, I absolutely do, but change the way you explain it. You know, in one totalitarian regime, my dage is ironed, folded his skin, broken bones, and shot at the Vrace. He and Dragica Pravica, Džavid Haverić and Dragica Pravica, Maks Luburić. On the other hand, my entire family was killed in World War II when the Chetniks of Pavao Đurišić were descending towards Podgorica from Drina, all of which bore the 9th name and last name of my family except my father was killed. There's only one person left alive by chance, a 13-year-old child, and I'm asking you when you're doing an explanation not only communist, don't do it because it's not right, it's a lot of what's been totalitarian, and there's a lot of what has great historical heritage in these areas. I am absolutely that all totalitarian regimes and all authoritarian regimes do not condemn themselves, but make themselves inaccessible to these spaces, because these spaces have survived too many googotes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14809	Thank you. Diana Zelenika, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14810	I'm going to warmly greet everyone before. I don't normally have much to replicate, this one, but I want to say to my colleagues, Magazinović, as someone who doesn't come from a party from which Mr. Lovrinović comes, and who comes from Mostar, after all, about an observation relating to street changes in Mostar City. Kolega Magazinović certainly knows that on several occasions the mayor of Mostar proposed to change the name of the disputed streets and proposed the names of the art-world dignitaries, this one, for the holders of the names of those disputed streets, and members of the SDP pointed out their vote against them at these sessions. Is that why they always have motives to respect controversial names or not, I leave it to them to interpret those reasons. So even so, knowing the actual situation means who's to blame for why there hasn't been a change in the name of the disputed streets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14811	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14812	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. Agenda item, agenda debate, and I'll say something about it. Looking at this agenda and these 13 points that we have on the agenda today, I thought we live in one of the Scandinavian countries and we're a state of prosperity. This agenda does not correspond to the current moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, my colleagues have spoken earlier, and I do not want to talk about the goal of making a bigger problem in this House or that this Parliament is not saying anything here today because of the situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located. Is this the current political moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the current political and security situation in our country? Is this the current political moment and whether this is being treated by these points that we have today, as regards the month's overlap between the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A few days ago, members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police units went to another country, which is, which is not in line with the constitution or with the law when it comes to sending police officers to public and other peacekeeping missions in the world. It should not have happened, and the law has been broken, that the police officers from our country go to another state without procedure and exercise there, not to say that it was a exercise that has political, or with elements and provocations, at least that's what citizens who live next to Drina in Bosnia and Herzegovina think. I'm ten. I'm carrying their attitude. Is this the current political moment when we have this state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is this the current political moment when we have this situation when it comes to organised crime and corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina? We don't have anything here in this agenda. Is this the current political moment when we have the mass departure of young people from Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's not. All the time I've been supporting these initiatives coming from fellow Arnaut, and today I'm going to support them, it's not a dispute, but I think with these agendas, with this kind of work in the country with these internal opportunities, in a country that's been trying to get an application for the EU... So I think that Mr Arnaut, among other things, should change the white bread issue, of course, but I don't think we deserve more wages than the average salary in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the work we do. Let's see who supports this initiative, here I'll support it because we're not doing anything, we're not answering any current questions in our country, and that's why we're being chosen. And so I think we should deal with ourselves and what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14813	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14814	My colleague, Zelenika, has told a lie. She has no custom to do so so that I find it wrong to inform her of the events in the Mostar City Council. So, it wasn't the SDP who voted against the removal of the names of Ustasha officials' streets, but it was a proposal, and you should know that, in the same basket, antifascists and others are being put in the same basket, and in such a way, it was never proposed anywhere in Croatia. For the truth's sake, let's get this straight. And as long as I have time, I want to support fellow Ahmetović in his discussion, colleague Bećirović, because if this Parliament will not discuss the current political moment, including the security situation, if you will, if we do not have the right to say enough wartime pre-election messages and activities to call the leaders who want to fight until the last drop of the blood of other children, then I do not know who has the right and who should talk about it. The people are crazy, literally weirded out by what messages, poor, and they look at it, they further support, full pockets, and look at the results of the public change research, whether it grows popularity when it says this or that, most often something that is offensive to another leader, other people, threats, etc. We have a right to talk. And that is why I call on Parliament to support these initiatives and to have a serious debate about it, and then we can also discuss these few points that you otherwise predicted.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14815	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14816	I thank the chairman. 11 The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the finding of a respected counterpart, Ahemtović, of citizens' concerns along the Drina River. I live by the river Drina, and I didn't notice that concern. Secondly, I must say that I am now concerned after his findings, because I expect from the former Security Minister that at least he knows the acts and agreements that this country has signed, and some of those acts that have allowed such exercises to be maintained have been signed by Mr Ahmetović himself with the Republic of Serbia. I will remind myself of an agreement on police co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia that allows for such exercises, I will also remind you of the Convention on Police Co-operation in South-Eastern Europe that allows and allows for such exercises and I will remind you that several years ago it was similar to this exercise by the Serbia-Mup of Republika Srpska and in the heart of Banja Luka. And then there wasn't a single reaction from Sarajevo, and it was normal. You know why? Because it wasn't an election year. And you know who was the only one who rebelled? They rebelled against the citizens of Banja Luka, I remember the newspaper texts perfectly, because they were stopped by Serbian MUP specialists and asked if they had stopped them on the street, controlled traffic, and they wondered if they had those powers, why they were stopping them, people rebelled because the police were controlling you on every corner, and there was no single reaction from Sarajevo at the time. It just wasn't a pre-election year. And I'm asking you, for the election year, that we don't play around here with serious things and lift our tensions needlessly. Mr Ahmetović, I have personally listened countless times when you spoke as Minister of Security about the problem of terrorism as a global problem, and I think we all need to support the common regional fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14817	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14818	Thank you very much. I would like to say to my colleague Ahmtović that if someone on the side would listen to us, who doesn't know who is who and relations in this House, he would say – here is the speech of a typical opposition MP. That nothing's wrong is that it's said by an MP who's from a position. It is not clear whether he is saying it on his own behalf, whether he is speaking on behalf of the club, because it is obvious that the elections are there, that it is necessary to fix his own rating, that I do not believe that the foreigners will bring something special, but two years of this government Sadik Ahmetović has not spoken in this way, so that the credibility of his speech here today is being questioned precisely because if nothing is wrong then it would be logical to start the question of the authorities, to see what is happening here and whether it is possible that if nothing is wrong for two years and nothing is done to see what we do further. And he'd be really consistent if he kept going in that direction, if it wasn't just a speech right before the election and never again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14819	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14820	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 12 So, colleagues to Magazinović. I don't think he knows, and that Mrs. Zelenika knows what she's saying, and I think she's right about what she said. And it would also be good if he had already talked about his family's injuries, so he might have said why, and that he replied to me – why didn't the SDP suggest that the streets be cut off like Sultan Ahmedov's or Titin? So I, or I don't know any others, so you could have suggested that, too, so if we're going to discuss it, but here, so you didn't suggest it, so that's when I answer you, so answer me. That, Mr Ahmetović, I'd just say that I think I'm working, and about the height of the salary I'm willing to talk about. So I wouldn't agree with you if we didn't do anything here. I do, I don't know if you or anyone else, I think I'm doing what I can and what I know, and I'm willing to talk about the height of the salary. And to Mr. Backović, so I read here this attitude from the European Commission where people said, so the Nazis were defeated and they were responsible for what they did, but those who continued to attack people, even a part of your family never responded. That's why it is this resolution. Now that you mention the Black Legion, I don't think it's time for me to mention here that one significant role of a Bošnjak is in the formation of the Black Legion, while you're already mentioning Mr. Francetić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14821	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14822	Obviously we're going somewhere where, with this discussion, we're not supposed to. It's too dreary a situation in this country for us to deal with these issues. Yes, Aleksandra, signed a contract, but a contract between two Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. As far as I know, Bosnia and Herzegovina had no information, she didn't know, she wasn't involved in the organization of something called exercise, if it's called police force practice. So, there is no Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the contract is between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. It's just one part that pleads to have the authority of a state that doesn't have. So that's something that's very symptomatic. Mr. Lovrinović, not wanting to enter, again I say, in the polemics, but asking that one Trbonj Meha, Mea Sefić, whose paintings you have at the New York Museum, at the London Gallery, at the Gallery of Royal Sweden and not to count further, to ask that their names be downloaded at the very least, at the very least, I will take a very difficult expression by not wanting to hurt anyone, a crime against the cultural heritage of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is one of the greatest painters that Herzegovina has ever given with Gabrijel Jurkić. But asking for his name to be erased because he was in the partisans it's not going, you know, it's not going, it's something that's inappropriate. As for the formation, who is who and what has formed, has formed what you once said an expression that no one knows today what I know him well, those who were co-ists, you know they formed him and they did what they did and they did what they did. [[Employee is warned on time]] And the fact that they say he's defeated, but he's not shut down,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14823	Mr. Backović's time. 13 ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14824	Because you have Nazi movements today both in Germany and Hungary, and in Italy, both in France and in the UK and not to list them, both in Croatia and here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14825	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14826	I had no intention, and I had a really good intention when I discussed the agenda, I had no intention of provoking anything at all, but I have to say that the concerns with the citizens exist, we can't get away from it. It is bigger with Bošnjak in Republika Srpska, I am sure it is the same with Srbin in the Federation. And we all need and need to know the extent and concern of the people we represent in this House. Therefore, this story does not stand at all which colleague Pandurević says. I'm sure the Constitution and laws have been violated when it comes to international and peace missions and the exit of police officers outside the country. The fight against terrorism is, I've talked about it a lot and I'm talking about it, but why not include the most popular police unit from Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's SIPA, only the Republika Srpska MUP is involved. He had an adventure to fight terrorism where the prosecution gave up all when they were chasing these Bošnjak around Republika Srpska, they gave up completely on the investigation. So that's the degree of training of the units that were practicing, I don't know... they didn't have any other... I have no reason to say anything for the election campaign, because it's a completely wrong thesis, because I'm not a candidate, and in the '91 elections. So far, I've increased my personal score twice as much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14827	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14828	Thank you. I would first like to refer to the respected allegations that there is no Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear counterpart, Bosnia and Herzegovina has by its constitution and evidence that it has it is what we are sitting here and Republika Srpska is Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know, you say there was no Bosnia and Herzegovina, you mean that Republika Srpska is not an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you for doing what many in Republika Srpska may want, we are talking about people's emotions. Another thing, cooperation. Dear counterpart Ahmetović signed an agreement with Serbian Interior Minister Ivica Dačić on 23 September 2010, which allows police agencies to co-operate together and hold exercises in the fight against terrorism. One of the police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, sir, is a respected counterpart, the Republika Srpska MUP. I really don't see 14 anything controversial. There are also a number of bilateral agreements, I must say, between the Republika Srpska and the Serbian MUP, which we have supported here in Parliament and who have unanimously adopted and supported by the votes of fellow Federation colleagues and supported the Republika Srpska MUP to carry out such joint exercises and to co-operate with Serbia in the fight against terrorism. And as for the remarks of distinguished counterpart Ahmetović about the exercise of Republika Srpska's MUP, as he called it, it seems to me that it was an action, I can't remember, again, the struggle, the detention of one in Republika Srpska, a respected colleague of Ahmetović, and I guess you know as the minister of security, and it was in the media, that the Republika Srpska MUP was then acting on the orders of the Special Prosecutor's Office. Let's stick to the facts, don't let us manipulate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14829	Thank you. Mr. Backović already has two, two corrections so he can't get a third. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14830	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the presentation of counterpart Sadik Ahmetović, who on several occasions said that the exercise that was carried out a few days ago was carried out unilaterally, so that it was done by the Republika Srpska Ministry without the knowledge of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or by its institutions, which is not true, because we were all able to hear and be informed through the media that the Serbian and Republika Srpska Government first, the Republic of Serbia, first addressed the Ministry of Security with a request and a notice that one such activity would be carried out and it was required to take place on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was no answer. Why not, a better answer will be given by the minister of security and representatives of the Council of Ministers, but therefore there is no conclusion that Serbia has done something with an agreement with the Republika Srpska MUP. A clear request and message in this request from Serbia's MUP was that the activity was intended to exercise with regard to all planned activities in the fight against terrorism. If someone here today declares himself and says that they have something against this activity, he is indirectly saying that he is against all the activities that are being conducted here and that someone wants to show that he is engaged in this plan so that we all fight terrorism together that threatens, among other things, Bosnia and Herzegovina. And by the time I came forward to say that all of this today we heard best that these sessions were not even there, because obviously today it has no purpose in its agenda, but for the purposes of pre-election discussions and speeches that are being held here, but I want to say to all those who today declare themselves to be very, very concerned about certain developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, specifically in Republika Srpska, that they had to be aware at some time in a previous period of time that these situations would occur at a time when the SNSD Club warned that it was not good that the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court was trying to silence and clog the mouth of the population in this country. That it would imply some other bad tendencies that would happen, but when we talked, Half a year to invite you to change the Law of the Constitutional Court, we told you, if you do not want to change the Law, you will receive a referendum. [[Embassy is warned on time]] What you're surprised about today and what you're worried about, you weren't cooperative, you weren't our associates and partners when you needed to. Well, today you have what you have. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14831	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14832	Thank you, Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone. When my colleague Lovrinović and I prepared this initiative, we were very aware of these, that there would be approximately these reactions that we heard here today. And our only goal in this initiative was once in this House to honor and remember the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes in a non-selective way, to put an emphasis on everyone's word. And it seemed appropriate to us today, 30.08. seven days after 23.08. A day of European memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. And we continue to insist that today, after the tensions and passions of this Parliament calm down, after the adoption of the agenda in an appropriate and dignified manner, with one minute of silence, in which we, everyone, in a way religiously and traditionally appropriate, will pay such tribute to all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. In doing so, we have formed one conclusion that we wanted this Parliament to finally make known through its Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and try to form a resolution and declaration that will refer to a series of documents of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament dealing in different ways with the heritage and victims of totalitarianism, i.e. all totalitarianism. And that's this conclusion. I remind you that the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH adopted Resolution 1481 of the Council of Europe by a narrow majority in 2006. We, too, who are politically, world-controlled and nationally belong to the Croatian National Assembly for some time now to commemorate and mark the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, as we have done this year 28. But it seems far more effective and competent, so to speak, that this very Parliament, at this very time, I would say, at the right time, even at the very end of time, in one symbolic way, by looking back at these resolutions, begins to coordinate the documents, laws and acts of Bosnia and Herzegovina with documents, laws and acts of the European Parliament, of the Council of Europe. and the EU, because that's what we talk about all the time. [[Employee is warned on time]] Here's a brief review, colleague Arnaut, it's really my fault for this Resolution 1481 I took it off the Internet without making sure it's original and I apologize to Parliament this time for it, but I believe it doesn't prevent ours at all. The Human Rights Commission, which will deal with the original documents in its possible work. [[Employee is warned on time]] Col. Bećivorić, the documents you were talking about were contained in the preamble to the European Parlamett Resolution of 2 April 2009, indeed all A kolegaBećirović Magazinović, is just a selective approach on which... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14833	Mr. Kožul, here's a three-time warning, please finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14834	Here, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14835	Thank you. 16 Damir Bećirović, a correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14836	... glad to see you as part of the HNS mark totalitarian regimes by laying a crown in memory of Herceg-Bosnia and so on, means that you marked the victims of Herceg-Bosnia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14837	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14838	Thank you very much. I'd like to say a few words about Mr Bećirović's initiative. First of all, I would like to ask ourselves one question: when we decide to put a point on the agenda and decide whether or not we will put it, the basic thing to go from what kind of epilogue we expect, what this Parliament has to do to successfully complete the debate on one point, so that it is not l'art pour l'art. So it's a key thing that we know in advance that nothing will bring us. For those who think that on the basis of the discussion, which is being conducted here, anything will change, I must say that they are in error, and they are in error only because the referendum decision was taken in the National Assembly with 63 votes in favour of, not one against or one abstention, so the decision is in accordance with the Constitution of Republika Srpska and in accordance with the Law on Referendum. There is no mistake on that path and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH cannot, is not a body above the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and cannot in any way change the things that we are now facing by any decision. So it would be much better to concentrate on what we can agree on, so that referendums don't happen. It doesn't matter what happens now, it's the consequences, we don't start with them, we end with them. So, my dear colleagues, we lack a lot of mutual understanding about the many big questions in this country, and the moment we feel that we are being threatened by danger, we are after the noise. This, this part of the agenda today would be a noise that no one would benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14839	Thank you, so there's no ending, Mr. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14840	So, Mr Bećirović, we regularly mark the Day of the Croatian Republic of Herceg-Bosnia, the Croatian Republic of Herceg-Bosnia, which, with all its political and legal heritage, has been introduced into the Washington Agreement and on the basis of which this country still operates. Unfortunately, we are not doing this well enough, and I hope that in the coming years we will mark it even better and even better. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14841	Please, I see you constantly piling up replicas, to remind you of the agenda point, I see the debate about Herceg-Bosni-Bosnia opens, about what, not at this point in the agenda. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14842	Mrs. Majkić talked about how to think and what kind of epilogue we expect when we propose some points of the agenda. I don't know if she thought about it when she suggested that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH be abolished here in Parliament. I would like to call again today on all my colleagues in Parliament to hold today's most pressing and important debate and see how we will stop a gunned-out unilateral referendum rocket from Republika Srpska. Great managers say it solves 20% of key problems so it has a chance to solve the remaining 80% of the problem. I'm not happy, I have to say today, what's opened up to this debate about Mr. Lovrinović's proposal, and it's an important topic and I'd have a lot to say on this subject, but today we people need to understand that we have a more pressing and important topic. I think that MPs, ministers, media, NGOs, no one should fall for the side issues in the coming days. The key topic that depends on constitutional order and peace in this country is how to stop this referendum, so let's not waste ourselves on side issues. When we stop it, then we can open up all the other questions. I repeat again, if this doesn't stop, we all know which way this country is going. That is why I urge you once again to invest all our energy in protecting constitutionality and legality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the most disturbing and important task for us in Parliament, and for the people in the Council of Ministers, both in the Presidency and representatives of the international community who have their institutional place in the Dayton constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14843	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14844	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. My replica is to all the negators or all those who spoke in favour of the suspension of Mr Bećirović's initiative on the agenda. I think it is too much of a delusion that the referendum will bring about something good in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is an obligation, it is an overly binding obligation for us Members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens to protect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just an obligation of respect, so I will repeat, sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina... an essential part of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The just announced referendum is anti-constitutional and anti-Dayton activity. And what MPs should discuss if we should not discuss protection, so I will repeat, sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is obvious that the announced referendum is going in that direction. And I would ask all of us here to vote to include this point in the agenda, to discuss and, ultimately, to conclude that the referendum is essentially anti-constitutional and anti-Dayton activity and that it should be postponed and not put Bosnia and Herzegovina into an unstable political situation at this point. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14845	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14846	Thank you. I spent the replicas, so I had to answer in this way, patiently wait, since my colleague Lovrinović asked one question that I think is worth the answer. So his question was why the SDP did not propose to abolish the street names that bear the names of Sultan and Titina. That was the question. As far as the sultan is concerned, you've fucked up the address, so ask your partner from the government of Bakir Izetbegović, he's in charge of the sultans. And as for Titina, I assume you wanted to tell the Titov, so one of the answers to that question is that you, who don't like him very much, stand still when you talk about him, just like you just stood there. Since this will not go away today, I recommend the book “Tito in the Vatican” until the next time you read a little bit, about Tito’s visit to the Vatican in '71. the year when the longest meeting was held until then in the history of one statesman and pope. You'll find it interesting to find Mr. Federico Lombardi's statement there as head of the Holy Table Press Office explaining what the Pope and the Vatican think of Josip Broz Tito. But that's for the next time, because I agree and here I will comply with this application by Mr Bećirović, who said that there are obstacles and more important topics for today and here I will stop, and next time we will continue on this topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14847	So, I'm warning again on the agenda point that you're sticking to it, so here we are now moving on to the Sultan, Tito and the Pope. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14848	I thank the chairman and warmly welcome all present. First, I will refer to what is a respected colleague of Ahmetović's mention. I support that wages be average to all parliamentarians, all elected persons, but also what is needed, which we show from the session to the session, and especially now during the election campaign, is that we should actually be banned from working at all during the pre-election campaign, because some of us still want to disperse hatred, intolerance and so forth, and all of this is passed on to our fellow citizens and citizens and we expect and hope for a better tomorrow. Therefore, the constitution should prohibit the session of any level in Bosnia and Herzegovina from allowing anyone to do what they are doing today for the purpose of the election campaign. In addition to supporting my fellow counterpart Bećirović's initiative, I have to look back and refer to what are respected HDZ colleagues proposing this resolution, it is in fact that they would condemn all and one totalitarian regime, and at the same time they mark the Day of Herceg-Bosnia. I am asking myself as someone who did not have the honour of being in the Communist Party, I was underage, probably if I was an adult, I would ask myself what the regime is today, if it was totalitarian, if, here was the College, the 13th point of the agenda was the emigration, that someone thought here, especially the members of the College, that it was a very important question, that the Bosanac and Hercegovac were extinct, that the report on displaced persons, which was signed and delivered to us today, showed that two million displaced Bosanac and 19 Hercegovac, did not take into account the heirs, or generations that came from these displaced persons, we would today have another picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We would have, in fact, shown our fellow citizens, that is, the whole public that we are truly committed to the EU, that we are indeed committed to the future, rather than continuously to the past. So, when Mr. Kožul says he's going to be even more committed to the stronger marking of Herceg-Bosnia Day and quacks of artificial creation, is it our way of being an artificial, According to them is quasi, I ask Mr. Kožul right in that totalitarian communist regime there were Hrvat, today you have what you have, you celebrate Herceg-Bosnia Day and where your Hrvat are, unless you are Hrvat only to members of HDZ. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Hrvat are already in the EU, Gone, gone. [[Embassy is warned on time]] What we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14849	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14850	As far as my colleague Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil is concerned, there's no need to really answer, I've already said everything, this one. I had recently failed to refer to myself, one of the motives for this initiative today, me and my colleagues Lovrinović, is the initiative, which is very unselective, colleagues of Denis Bećirović from the last and last sessions. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are 130, 40 municipalities and cities, in each municipality and cities there are street names or settlements that are speculative, for some reason problematic, pour some people or fear or contempt. But his colleague Bećirović then very selectively chose one city and several streets and interesting very much the City Mostar, which is the easiest to touch and smart, each of them is also being touched and smart by Mostar and Mostar is already tired of it. That is why we have launched this Marking Initiative, but the initiative to be very clear through the resolution and declaration of this Parliament is determined on all totalitarianisms in line with European values, because from the corner of these European values in each of our municipalities, the city has the names of streets and cities that are very questionable. To single out as selectively as we have so far selectively commemorated here on various occasions and every such selective approach this Parliament and this country is taking a step back. This adjective of all in the name of this European resolution, in the name of this day and in our initiative seems to be the most disturbing here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14851	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Mešić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14852	Chairman, so just a few sentences to Mr. Kožul. So you're peddling a resolution on the condemnation of fascist systems, forgetting that six years ago in this same House, Mr. Denis requested a ban on all fascist organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I must remind you that it was loaded with HDZ's foot.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14853	Thank you. 20 Ambassador Željko Komšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14854	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I can only imagine what'll happen in 2018 if we're then in this assembly here. I don't dispute the importance of any of the topics that we're talking about, I don't dispute that people have the right to differ, to a different life experience, but I ask you to keep one count, all of what we're talking about the people of this country listens and everything we say affects the people of this country. For me, all my people, if it makes you feel so much better, Mr. Lovrinović, are all my people to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14855	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14856	Okay, I accept your apology. So this whole thing has an impact. The atmosphere among ordinary people in this country is far better than it could be concluded by what their elected representatives say, people are not prone to aggression. We can discuss what led to what, and we won't agree again. I feel the need to make a statement about the topics mentioned here, about which the story is being told. Mr Bećirović suggested one item of the agenda, you can agree with it and not agree with it, call it demagogue, not call it demagogue, think it is right and wrong, but when it comes to a referendum in Republika Srpska, if we are honest with ourselves, we cannot escape the fact that it is institutional anti-constitutional activity. We liked the BiH Constitutional Court or did not like it, he made a decision that we do not have to like, but we are obliged to implement it. As it is true, as it is true, you can now take the reasons why Bakir Izetbegović went to challenge January 9th, but he was right as a member of the presidency, he did so. You can say it wasn't politically wise, but with the constitutional order of this country, it doesn't matter, it has the right to do so. The Constitutional Court ruled as it had ruled, whether we liked it or not, that we should respect the decisions of such a court. So don't let us get into the story that you listened to us change the Constitutional Court Act wouldn't come to this. Don't, it's not arguments, it sounds more like a threat. So, the referendum and the situation and the dust that has risen over all this, in my opinion, deserve the answer of this Parliament. We won't achieve anything by putting it under the carpet or under the carpet. The fact is that the situation in the country is on fire and I think this Parliament should say something about it. Whether to come to a unique conclusion clearly doubted, at least according to the discussions we had the opportunity to hear. But the fact that on institutional non-constitutional action. [[Employee is warned on time]] The PIC today has a session, probably won't conclude anything, so it's probably our responsibility in this country. The other thing, Mr. Lovrinović, I'll finish this quickly, I'll make a brief statement about what Mr. Lovrinović and Mr. Kožul were looking for, all and one word from the Council of Europe Resolution, I'm signing the European Parliament resolution, let's agree, if that's not a problem, let's suggest this, here I'll sign this next year, you want the seventh month, you want the eighth month, I sign every word here. [[Employee is warned on time]] And the third thing, when it comes to training units of the Republic of Serbia's MUP. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14857	Mr. Komšić, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14858	There you go, Mr. Bosić. I rarely answer for a word. Don't mind me. So, when it comes to exercises, every co-operation of police agencies is commendable, the fact is that the exercise took place on the territory of another country, the fact is that, that they have met the state authorities now, such as people and the fact that this exercise had an effect and called for the effect of fear, primarily among Bošnjak in Podrinj. I guess we can admit so much to ourselves that we're not looking for any false argument in anything. It is not a problem for the co-operation of police agencies, especially when it comes to the fight against terrorism, but you also know that at that moment it caused fear among Bošnjak in Podrinj. I think we need to be honest with ourselves first and, of course, towards people who are watching, don't scare people. To mention the word war, I see that word is the easiest to slip from the tongue of one who has not had the opportunity to spend some time in the mud in some dungeon and to watch dead and maimed friends by his side.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14859	Mr. Komšić, indeed.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14860	Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14861	Thank you. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14862	The correction of the wrong allegation refers to what we just heard, that is, part of Mr Komšić's discussion, when he said the decisions of the Constitutional Court had to be respected whether we liked it or not. Well, Mr. Komšić, this story of yours, and this comment of yours, would drink water and make sense that you fought so hard to implement all the other constitutional court rulings most of all concerning institutions in the Federation of BiH, and there are over 90 of them, or that in two years of your term in this House you mentioned why the Constitutional Court's ruling on the City of Mostar is not being implemented. You've never even talked about it, so as a man who listens to you, and an MP, I can only say that your comment is the simplest and simplest demagogue you've spread here among us. And you are aware that neither Denis Bećirović's initiative will pass today, nor will all this discussion prevent a referendum in Republika Srpska from taking place for over an hour. You can talk and by tonight the referendum on September 25th will be in Republika Srpska. And as for fear, I can understand that some Bošnjak were afraid of what they saw in the showcase exercise in Serbia's territory, because it really showed one power of the state and the power of the country's MUP, but, ______________(?) 22 [[no microphone turned on]] but you must know that both Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina feared what we saw in Srebrenica last year when there was an attack on Serbia's prime minister... (?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14864	Please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, look, please, ma'am...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14866	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14867	Please let her finish, and then you can ask for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14868	That's right. I want to repeat once again that many Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina have feared what they saw, proceedings against Serbian Prime Minister in Srebrenica last year, that I am not talking about Srbin in the Federation, but no one has responded to it, nor until today we have an answer to why it happened, who did it and whether it will answer for what he did. So don't, we're exhausting ourselves, we're wasting unnecessary time, we better make this agenda as it is today.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14869	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14870	Well, I can't say hello to my colleagues and wish for a successful day's work, doesn't this look like anything today? But I want to tell you how you can allow these discussions, not just colleagues Marković, who is absolutely unacceptable. I ask you what the word means, yes, but they are afraid. So where are we, what's going on? I would like to congratulate both my colleagues Lovrinović and my colleagues, Kožul, who have fully achieved their goal by proposing the point of this agenda. I think it is not correct to propose it without respecting the College's proposal to refer it to the Human Rights Commission. We turned this session into a pay phone today as if the election were tomorrow, in fact, it's all just a pre-election campaign. But people, please, these are local elections, these aren't general elections, so let them do other things on other levels to discuss other things. No matter what the agenda is with 13 23 points, which is actually no agenda, at least let's do that agenda as it is. And once again, I call upon you to make every discussion of this kind that comes out of the framework of correctness, which has something else, not to qualify for other sounds, and that will do a lot of damage more than anything that has happened in this Bosnia and Herzegovina in the previous period, to end it and to stop it. You have the obligation and the right to direct the discussion in this House and that everything that comes out of the framework of a correct and political attitude and let's say if you want us to have the right to speak legitimately, yet I think we should take care of the things we say. These are the very difficult qualifications that we have heard here, this is a shame what is happening today in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14871	Please, it's not the College, not even one member of the College took part in this debate and the whole debate and everyone who came forward went towards this outcome. So I'm interrupting the session, 15 minutes off, and we're inviting all club presidents to consult. Please take your seats to continue your work. So the extended college held a session and made an agreement to end the discussion at this point and to move to a vote on the agenda points, with what, here after that agreement, I can still see that there's a re-login going on now. So the deal was that we don't discuss this point any further, but what now. Here, I'm looking at it still there. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut. Is it an accident or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14873	It's not an accident.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14874	No, I'm looking, I can see you're looking amazing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14875	Mr. Chairman, I'm wondering if it's by any chance that you're not running the Rules of Procedure. I mean, Article 71. It is very clear to you and it is really your obligation as chairman to implement the literally Rules of Procedure. So, at the beginning of the session, the MP has the right to request that the optional point be omitted, the inclusion of the other, has the right to explain for 3 minutes. So it has nothing to do with these discussions that are only allowed in terms of agendas. And I really don't mind listening to every proposal for a new agenda or abandoning another, but as soon as we get out of the Rules of Procedure, then we get these comments from the threatening content, etc., and then it all goes on forever. And it is indeed your responsibility as chairman to discuss, and this is not a debate but a participation in accordance with Article 71, direct exclusively in accordance with Article 71. Who has to suggest leaving out or including a new agenda item, let it come out, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14876	Mr. Arnaut, you're like the first time in a session today. It's always the same thing, and you've been involved in today's debate. Therefore, we can also agree in the future to change these things 24, but this has been happening since Parliament's establishment that people open a discussion through the draft agenda points, like today, and the discussion ends... two hours. Even if we had adopted these agenda points, I don't think it would have lasted much longer than now. So we have a situation where the deal we made on the extended college falls into the water. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And what do you suggest? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14879	We're basically honoring the College's agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14880	You don't respect it, it's the Collegia's agreement to go straight to the vote on two initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14881	Please, Mr. President, don't interrupt me. Since rough threats have been made as the SDA Club we are in favour of continuing the session but we are looking for a stenogram of colleague Marković to analyse her speech and present their position at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14882	Okay, you can do that, it's your right.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14883	There have been harsh threats against some Bošnjak here. The Bošnjak will fight for the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we do not accept any threats.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14884	Here we go, so we're through, no, here we go. Staša Košarac, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14885	Thank you, Chairman. 25 I thought I wasn’t discussing it, but given the fact that it was possible for Mr. Fazlić to say some things, I think it would be very correct for me to say a few words too. First of all, I don't think anyone should be afraid of anyone here in this country, and I don't think there's any need at all to complicate the situation in any way and to present some kind of claim that any of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are either in one way or in one way terrified of some of the activities in this country. I don't think it contributes to improving the situation in this country even though we're all aware that it's a very complex situation. I think that even pathetics, which has been expressed here in several discussions, are not an ally, but I think that our alliance is that we are much more courageously opening these issues in institutions that are competent and according to the Constitution and, of course, on the basis of certain topics that need to be analysed and decisions taken on the basis of these issues. I must say that peace and security in this country is a priority for all of us and I can say it first and foremost on behalf of the SNSD, and I think I have a perfectly legitimate right to reject any tendency directed to the SNSD that SNSD is for instability, that it is for a certain kind of conflict, problems, etc. I therefore note that the SNSD is leading such a policy clearly defined to affirm both peace and stability in this country. And so I'm asking you to take care of it. Of course, we do not have the same attitude on certain political issues, but that does not mean that someone has the ambition to bring unrest, instability, and problems in this country. We have tried in several previous sessions to open this issue in an institution that is competent, we have been proposing here, we representatives from Republika Srpska have been legislators of the Constitutional Court Act, and for this was the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, wanting to prevent injustice against anyone in this country, that the foreigners, together with representatives of the Constitutional Court of any nation, are voting the interest of any other two people. We did not fully understand here then, and I must say that I regret that we have witnessed many political moves by others based in the Federation in a way that through some forms the Constitutional Court itself or some other judicial institutions is institutionalized. And we have the right to legitimately talk about it, not wanting to convince anyone, not wanting to create any conflict situation here, but we have, people, the right to say it, we who come from Republika Srpska. We talked too much. Constitutional Court. [[Employee is warned on time]] How long does the discussion last?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14886	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14887	I have to, I apologize, for a short while, there was no particular concern when the Constitutional Court made a decision and when a member of the Bosniak People's Presidency made an appeal. At the time, there was no concern about what it would do to cause reactions in Republika Srpska as of today, those who talk most about some concerns in Bosnia and Herzegovina that there will be reactions from Republika Srpska. [[Employee is warned on time]] Come on, please. Just a few more seconds. It is not true here that, when it comes to the referendum on the Republic Day, it was non-institutional. ... passed the procedure under the Constitution through the Council of Nations and the Constitutional Court. Decision on the opening of the referendum passed by the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court, the Council of Nations I would like to remind you that in the institutions of Republika Srpska not only sits Srbin and do not please talk outside... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14888	Mr. Košarac, please finish. More time has elapsed. Thank you. 26 We're done with the discussions. We move to the draft agenda point proposed by MP Denis Bećirović. Please prepare to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I don't know how I'm going to make it more clear to you. Would you like me to read you what you're voting on again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14891	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14892	Okay. We'll ask the departments to check what's going on. We repeat the vote. For 23, against 12, abstention 5. The general majority exists, there is no entity from Republika Srpska. We vote right in the second round. Prepare to vote. For 23, against 12, abstention 5. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska, so the proposal was rejected. We are now going to vote on the proposal of MPs Predrag Kožul and Nikola Lovrinović for the new agenda. For 9, versus 20, abstention 11. There is no general majority, so no initiative for a new point has been adopted. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] One more time? We repeat the vote on this initiative. For 10, against 15, abstention 15. There is no general majority, so no proposal has been adopted. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14894	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14895	Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14896	Ladies and gentlemen. I can't speak for other clubs and MPs, but I can speak for the SDP Club. Because of the continued harsh abuse of entity voting, which is turning anti-Tayton into an ethnic vote and because of the first post-Dayton in these 20 years of institutional attempt to destroy the Dayton Peace Agreement...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14897	Do you have any points to which you're calling?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14898	I am informing you on behalf of the SDP Club in protest we are leaving this session of the House of Representatives. It's in the name of the club. As for me personally, I want to tell you, given that you have scheduled the next session for October 12th, in the event that the authorities and institutions provided for by the Dayton Peace Agreement do not put off this anti-Dayton referendum... [[Employee off microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14899	There are no more applications to discuss the agenda. I find that the 35th session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 34th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-2063/16, of 28.07.2016; 4. Proposal for a law on the provision of free legal assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1 789/16, since 28.06.2016 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1510/16, of 13.07.2016 (second reading); 6. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1853/16, since 07.07.2016 (first reading), shortened procedure; 7. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and 28 July – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1854/16, of 07/07/2016 (first reading), shortened procedure; 8. Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Payments to Single Account and Allocation of Revenue – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-855/16, of 07.07.2016 (first reading), shortened procedure; 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act – Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-669/16, since 18.07.2016 (first reading); 10. Report by the College of the House of Representatives on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-1950/16, since 18.07.2016 (the law in first reading); 11. Report on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2015, issue: 01,02,03-50-19-2071/16, of 29.07.2016; 12. Report on freedom of speech and the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-50-1575/15, since 18.07.2016 (realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 16.02.2016); 13. Consideration of the parliamentary initiative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalice, submitted on 12.07.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge that, no later than 60 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, it also delivers a report on young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina," Act No 01-50-1-1906/16. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 34th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? Mr. Lovrinović, is that the first item of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14901	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14903	So, thank you, I propose only on page 14, under point 14, so there was an analysis of the reform of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we did not adopt that material, we returned, but there was also one of my conclusions on which it was not even stated, this is all true, but there are sentences – since the material was not received to the knowledge of the proposal for the conclusion of Nikola Lovrinović, I only ask that, therefore, the text of the conclusion be entered into the record that I have proposed. So they have two points, I don't know if I should read them but... 29
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14904	Well, if you insist, I don't think it's a problem. Okay, so it'll be adopted. We're going to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure asked lawmakers: Senad Šepić asked a question and addressed the initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers; Mirsad Đonlagić referred questions to the BiH Council of Ministers, the College of the House of Representatives; Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalica addressed 9 questions to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs; Šefik Džaferović referred a question to the BiH Council of Ministers. The following answers were delivered to today's session: On the issue of Borjana Krišto, placed in oral form at the 33rd session, the answer delivered by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations; on the question of Borislav Bojić-Vrazalica, which was placed in oral form to the 31st and 33rd session, Safer answer provided by the BiH Minister's Council and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs; on the question of Dušanka Bećirović, asked in oral form at the 34th session, the answer provided by the BiH Ministry of Justice, and the question asked in written form at the 33rd session by Minister Jasmin Emirić, asked by the Director for indirect taxation of BiH and asked the oral form of the meeting, the answer to the question of the BiH Minister's response to the questions raised by the BiH Minister and the Minister's response to the questions Hanka by the BiH's Vajzović to the questions to the questions addressed by the BiH's 33rd of the Minister, the Council, the Council, the Minister for the Council of BiH. Who wants to comment on the answers received? Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14906	I thank the chairman. I received until this session, as you read, two responses, one from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the other from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Uh, I can't call him back, the Foreign Ministry is, therefore, the story that has been going on since January where I asked the BiH Foreign Ministry for some information where they said they didn't want to give that information because they don't think they're going to give a real picture, and we've had a five-minute break here, and then a half-hour break, so the college's emergency to the BiH Foreign Ministry, and even the minister himself promised me here directly that it would..., but here again came the BiH Foreign Ministry's response not to give an answer to the questions given because they believe that, in their opinion, it would not create a real picture. And then the question arises whether an MP should apply to the Freedom of Access Act because at least they have a legal obligation to give it to me. And it really is an unacceptable relationship. And then 30 is particularly unacceptable when you compare it with the answer that I also received for the purposes of today's session from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so from the same Alliance for Change, so you have two ministers and two completely diametric opposite responses. So, this from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations should be, but not just this one, all of whom I have... so far received examples of how the answers to the parliamentary issues should be agreed on. I asked a question a month ago, the answer came right after a month, so within that business period, and that wasn't one question, that was 12 questions. From the foreign trade ministry and economic relations in BiH, I have received answers to 12 questions about the disease of curly skin. So, an extremely important current issue, extremely professionally prepared, extremely well-founded and, as I have already pointed out, in time, while from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs from January to today, here I get a three-time answer that they do not want to deliver an answer to the question because they believe that these data would not give a real picture, which is not absolutely for them to make that decision. So it's really incomprehensible. Now, you see, I understand that ministers do not prepare these answers, that some officials do, but you will see at 13 points, or 12, one of the points of the agenda today, we had this on the Joint Commission on Human Rights yesterday, it was the initiative of the BiH Department of Justice, I think, or the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Justice, and you will see what the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Human Rights are. So, yesterday unanimously we were all... that it was even possible for someone to prepare such an answer. And yet we are aware that the minister there is not guilty but that some officials have done it, but officials who absolutely, therefore, do not respect what they do, or an MP in this case, are either looking for a House of Representatives. But what I really insist on always comes from the top. And here we can clearly see it means one example of how Minister Šarović behaves, so it is obvious that he instilled everyone there in his ministry that it is necessary to take parliamentary issues seriously, because I have been constantly for the fourth, fifth time from them getting serious answers, while in other cases this practice is not so. And I am really taking this opportunity to commend Minister Šarović for such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14907	Thank you. Next up is Mrs. Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14908	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome all present. I also got two answers to two questions asked, one referred to the use of fax, and I'm satisfied with the fact that even with a delay, I got an answer but not with what the answer says. So one important question is regulated by sublaws, and I don't know how much this issue will move to consider some different solutions to this problem. The second question, I'm not happy at all, it was oral, I asked for a written answer. Instead of what was, where the accent, the focus of my question is to review the justification of the existence of certain state institutions, agencies, directors, offices, something that was announced a year and a half ago that would be revised, reviewed, never done. Instead, I got from the Public Administration Reform Office, which is the Public Administration Office, they got, from 2007, they have a strategy, etc., not a word about what was actually meant to be answered, so here I join such a grudge as my colleague Arnaut said, I don't think it makes any sense. The same was before 31, the previous answer when they say that they do not know whether a unilaterally broken contract with the Republic of Croatia regarding a border crossing in the Doljans where they are working their crossing nearly two kilometers away from this, answers me that they do not know and nothing then, everything remains. So, you should be more serious, and these civil servants or whoever's answering, according to what we're asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14909	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14910	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I welcome you all to today's session. Here, first of all, I want to thank the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for the written answer, but what he means is, in a way, that this answer is not complete to me. In fact, from my question addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I also recalled that the decision of the BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Committee was established in 2015 and that the activities of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations depend on the work of this Committee. In his reply, the minister wrote only that the Commission had started work, which consisted of it, but they did not give me concrete activities here in response to what the Commission had done, in fact whether or not it was constituted, there was only a decision that it was formed, and whether it had done its job to give approval to laboratories that analyze and superanalyze tobacco and tobacco processing. Here, I hope that the Ministry will insist on that, I will, of course, follow and seek, here and this time I want to say and look for some sort of supplementation of this answer, or if this does not follow, I will ask again for a certain time the same minsitarstvo to get an answer and force them to do their part of the work that follows them from the laws and implementing acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14911	Thank you. Commentary, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14912	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'd just like to hear if you've referred the emergency to federal television that I asked for an answer and said I'll comment when I get all three answers. This is how I got cut off because federal television isn't answering. And on the other hand, I remind you again that the prosecution has not answered my five, six questions and I am announcing for the first session an oral question on how and how to behave when it comes to a representative and a prosecutor who does not answer questions. Thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14913	Thank you. Here, it's been confirmed from the Secretariat that the emergency was sent after last session. Commentary, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14914	My question was asked on purpose to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the chairman, and it was said whether the Management Board of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Insurance Agency adopted the Annual Report of the Agency for 2015. So, I remind you that this Agency has a management body called the Management Board and, by its own will, the directors adopts reports he does not even give them to the Management Board. Therefore, this is once again confirmed that the reports come to the Council of Ministers without having previously passed the verification of the Management Board of this Agency. So this illegal business needs to be sanctioned. I'm sorry we used the first part to make sure there's no here, except for Mr. Bevanda waiting for his points, there are no ministers who should hear this. So it happens that no one takes care of the mail that comes to the Council of Ministers whether it's passed the legal path or not. I hope Mr. Bevanda has an ungrateful role to play, but at least he'll say something about it at the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14915	Thank you. We don't have any more comments. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-2063/16, of 28.07.2016 The House College did not agree on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to discuss the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure. The debate is closed, but we will plead immediately because it is a request for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14917	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14918	Are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14919	The promoter is at... a session... 33 [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14920	You're suggesting we don't discuss it because the promoter...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14921	Let them put an end to the same procedure. So, I don't mind, but let's discuss it and people say we don't want to talk to you... so we don't plead until there's a proposal in the session. [[You don't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14922	So we're going to the second round of voting now. So we're voting on an emergency procedure. Please prepare for the vote. So, a total of 36 votes -- 13 for, versus 10, abstentions 13. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Shall we repeat the vote? You got it. We repeat the vote. For 13, versus 12, abstention 11. There is a general and entity majority, an emergency procedure proposal has been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14925	I apologize to the chairman, you say 36 present, 14 missing, and with monitors still on, or they're reported but persons are not physically present, so I'd like you to determine how many of us are physically present.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14926	Well, you see, here we get the result of a vote that apparently says there's more than enough quorum. So, as a result of the vote, you have more than enough quorum. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14927	I thank the chairman. 34 So it was enough just to count to see that we were more than 22 in Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil's room. Then when you do the extra count you see, so we have the quorum. I just don't understand why the DF second time, first it's Mrs. Beganović without a microphone, then you're on the microphone, questioning the result of the vote on the sustainability of the Public TV Service. Really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14928	Please, let's go, correcting Zaim Backović's wrong quote. He's giving up. Maja Gasal-The Vražalica, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14929	I can understand that Mr. Arnaut must have these steps in order to be in "Avaz" present in tomorrow's edition, in order to be popularized in the media and it is quite understandable his behavior, but if he listened carefully, and he can stenogram to look for, I, I did not look at the quorum but I asked how we 36 were present, as you said, if 14 of us were missing, or 12. So, Mr. Arnaut, I appreciate your attention and concern for the Democratic Front and the way we refer. If you've noticed, I've come to the hearing and said I'm sorry, but I just want to find out that we're not 36 present.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14930	Okay, thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14931	Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, someone would even believe you about these finesses that Mrs. Beganović before you, without a microphone, did not make it clear and loud – if we have a quorum to vote on at all, the chairman said – we do, then you're up to it. So these are finesse, I say don't play here it's about the survival of the Public TV service, don't at least on these technical issues question it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14932	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14933	I, the chairman, don't understand you, I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14934	I don't understand you very often either, so I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14935	Well, okay, but why are you letting this happen? Damir, Maja's absolutely right, if you don't vote on your screen and it says you're present, there's a abstention. And it turns out there's more than 35 of us in the O.R. And it's just that and nothing else. We're 22 or 25 in the O.R., and it turns out 36, we're not 36, and that's all the story. So, please, when you vote, at least those who take care to shut down for those who are not present, shut down, because we have a fake picture of the vote, not just on this matter, but on the other hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14936	Yes, this is Mr. Backović right, so we exchanged this time. It is true that those MPs who come out and don't turn off the monitor to then record themselves as being restrained. So MPs would have to shut down the monitors when they come out, or each time before voting on anything, we would have to charge the service to shut down those monitors for non-members. Here, we'll consult on how to proceed to the College. Let's move on, Mensura Beganović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14937	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. I would just like to say that my, my comment – if we have a quorum, was encouraged by not wanting to be a Parliament that makes decisions and has no quorum for those decisions. And I decide, the debate on what was proposed for the Public TV Service, of course, I support, as well as the Democratic Front Club, but regardless, I think the question of quorum is one of the questions that speaks about the legitimacy of the decisions we make.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14938	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14939	No Niko in the D.F. is questioning the survival of the Public TV Service, but it is obvious that Mr. Arnaut is faithfully copying his president, and he forgot to count as well as this one when he wronged the floor in his tower and ended up in a detention unit.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14940	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14941	Thank you very much. So, I did, and I made a little comment out loud that there are no proposings, so the chairman says it doesn't matter, so maybe it doesn't matter, because on Mr. Mešić's proposal, we're doing the Public TV service, here for the fourth time, the fifth time I'm thinking like this, and we're never going to solve it and we're never going to solve it like this. And I can't miss the chance to say that this isn't a legitimate way of solving, this is an article 42 from transitional and final provisions, the 18th article regulates this issue, but it's free here in this House to speak when someone has 10 hands and someone, I don't know, 9 and 8 and it's against the Consumer Protection Act. I can't help it if I don't say we're doing Mesic's way of saving the TV system, I think he's gonna make it. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14942	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14943	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ma, I really want to express my surprise at the discussions of fellow Bećirović, who have been repeated several times here in Parliament and each time are the target of the SBB president, Mr Radončić. I could also talk about Mr. Komšić a lot, but I want him to be there, but there's no way I can say anything to him, because he's usually not present at these sessions. And may Mr. Bećirović not think that he has the exclusive right to insult anyone in any way he thinks he can, insult anyone here, but what I think is not correct is not correct to use it in discussions that concern other matters entirely. If something is directly related to Mr. Radončić, then let it be discussed in the way he feels it should be. Here we are discussing something related to public TV service and how to vote here. And now for which and for which Mr. Radončić was dragged into this story, at least it was or least said incorrectly.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14944	Thank you. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on the provision of free legal assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1-1789/16, since 28.06.2016 The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 34th session of the House, held on 01.08.2016. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted its comments on 30.08.2016. The bill's proposal report. The Commission adopted the draft law with two amendments. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1510/16, since 13.07.2016 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14951	I thank the chairman. Never a faster session seems, this is all that's on the agenda, and what should be found as a proposal on the agenda we've been discussing for two hours. But I'm not going to talk about it, I'm going to refer to the very proposal and the opinion, the opinions that have been delivered on the proposal for this law. Well, by reading all of this, I can't explain to myself why, when the promoter has decided, after all of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, we've taken off the skin from their bodies the bad economic situation and the way in which we've decided to take down the little fur that they have, and I'm interested in, when the reasons for the adoption of one such, or the amendment and addition of the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act, where the promoter states that this is one of the branches of the economy that uses exclusively domestic resources for production, that this is an important branch, where we don't have the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, or the Office of Veterinary. In order to get involved in such a proposal for amendment and supplementation of the Law, it was necessary to provide all the information on how many of these farms we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, how they are financed, whether there is satisfied with all the ecological standards in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in fact, when taken into account, by colleagues who are representatives and representatives of the Council of Europe and what is '99. The Council of Europe gave a directive and an opinion which, of course, is not legally mandatory, but also implies that, in accordance with the amendments and additions, all economic and ecological circumstances for the adoption or cultivation of furskins should be taken into account, why the bill promoter did not refer to the ecological and economic situation when we decided to respect this, adopt this amendment and supplementation of the law. So, for all of them, all of those economic standards that should be met, and we know that they fall under 39 as air and water, I wonder why the biller didn't give himself a little more time, so he supported his reasons for making such a proposal to amend and supplement the law, because I see no reason why we would support, especially since the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration and this explanation for the adoption of one of these laws is absolutely contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14952	Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14953	I'll be very brief. Namely, according to everything that is done, and also to be what we call this democratic world, the Animal Protection Act is also passed, which is normal, but you have these things that are unadjusted to society and tradition and cultural heritage in which we live can cause great problems. Take only Article 9 and you will not buy a bird a child, an elderly minor, a bird, or a guinea pig even though it is, a guinea pig or a hamster, even though these animals are intended for exactly the age of adolescence. But that's how article 9, as an example. Further, about protection, read the law that treats the health issue of the population and then nowhere does it say that man cannot be transported in a vehicle that is not air-conditioned, there is no adequate temperature conditions, moisture, etc., so a man can and his pet cannot. So we have to air-conditioned everything, because it can't be transmitted under these conditions. But don't lie down, we don't have all the housing units, houses, air-conditioned, so given the weather changes, the temperatures if they're out there, for example, 35, in the apartment is 40, you need to find the conditions to provide your pet with special air conditioning. But if you want to vent it, then you have to do that air conditioning so that it reduces the air temperature, or at least three times as much energy as you need, because it has to and... Of course, those who prescribe, our legislators obviously do it mechanically, translate, copy, that's what resaves did, "Resava school" so it's similar to family law when they went from their aunt's son-in-laws to your inheritance order, they signed the Finnish law. You remember that, we were together in Parliament, Mr Džaferović, the Federation Parliament. That's right here. But if I didn't mind, I've got birds right now, I've got dogs, hamsters, pigeons, guinea pigs, I don't know what no more, and I have birds now, because my grandchild is playing, and I'm holding them. Only now, under these conditions, will I have to provide them with both humidity and temperature, and I will have to ask about the origins of those birds, not to buy food for what they say is for them, but what suits them in nature. I think we need to define the law a little differently, I said why. And now we've got another little toothpick, about the sale. You know that reptiles are in the right sense all protected animals, but in all zoos you will find reptiles, and they are forbidden to sell. Everyone who owns them will have to hand them over to zoos because they're wild animals, too. It's like that, from snakes, through those things, I don't know what they're called, lizards and so on. I mean, I'll finish, ma'am, so I should, of course I'll vote for it, but this kind of law that we're making is inadmissible in practice. Zoran example of inapplicability is Sarajevo. Sarajevo in a neighborhood where I live children can't move around the streets, someone owns those dogs, they're packers today. All ears marked, but children can't walk the streets. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14954	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14955	Just a short, no smaller, no more problematic law. But I want a principled question -- how is it possible that Mr. Karamatić, here at this time I welcome him, the legislator at the House of Representatives? So, I, I miss that one, you may have an answer, because it also refers to members of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and Mr. Karamatić who...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14956	The home of the people has been directed to us by the Law, as a promoter of the House of Peoples, and not, and Mr Karamatić was a promoter in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14957	Well, no, but he can't be in the House of Representatives proposing from the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14958	No, the House of Nations is a promoter, and no, Mr. Karamatić was a legislator of the Law in the House of Peoples, then, when he adopted us the House of Peoples as his Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14959	Well, that should have been a sentence written, and no, it doesn't, it says, at the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, it passed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, whose proposal is, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14960	We don't have any more logs. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-1950/16, since 18.07.2016 (the law in first reading) The House College failed to reach agreement on the draft law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. The debate is closed, and we will plead later in the second round of voting. Point 11, 41 Ad. 11. Report on the Commission's work to decide on conflict of interest for 2015, issue: 01,02,03-50-19-2071/16, from 29.07.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14964	I apologize, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Very short. The subjective report on freedom of speech and the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been discussed on the Joint Commission. I, as a member of the Joint Commission and as an MP, would like to say and point out, among other things, since this stenogram, I assume, in the Council of Ministers of BiH, will look at, that the way this report is prepared is indeed something that is not appropriate to the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I want to say that the BiH Ministry of Justice itself seems to have not paid enough attention to the content of the Report itself. It is obvious that here, at this time, the decisions to honour the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which are completely decident and clear and one and the other, are only partly the first conclusion, and it is not fully respected, because most of the first conclusion by the BiH Ministry of Justice itself is what we can all see on the sites of international organisations, and instead of having a certain kind of communication with those who are officially present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a certain content that could serve MPs on the issue that is very important, especially when it comes to the report that is known to you all when it comes to freedom of speech and the media. So, what is also very important, which is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has tasked the BiH Council of Ministers to establish, among other things, in a second point, that it is perfectly clear and comprehensively informs about the moves of different organisations that are not in line with the provisions of the Constitution. I should point out, therefore, that it is the provisions of the Constitution relating to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. to delegates and members that I cannot be, this is a quote from the Constitution, that they cannot be called to criminal and civil responsibility in respect of any act carried out in the framework of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that I do not read any further, and that you all know that there have been calls by MPs to criminal and other kinds of responsibility, and there is nothing written about it at all in 42 Report of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Otherwise, when it comes to the materials of this kind, there is really no point in sending material to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because its contents do not reflect, I am fully convinced that neither the minister of justice nor the Council of Ministers has read at all the material on which the Council of Ministers has declared itself, but the Council of Ministers is behind this material and as such carries a certain kind, here is a way to say, my open criticism in the sense that the material should be prepared as required by the Parliamentary Assembly of Ministers. That is why the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the administration, as the chairman and read it, has proposed two conclusions to join the complements that are needed to pay attention to the issue required by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by the BiH Council of Ministers. And of course other ministries and not only the BiH Ministry of Justice are involved here, because it is objectively necessary to hear what the BiH Ministry of Security and the BiH Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons has to say about this. And it would practically as such, of course, have the material done in a way that corresponds to what the Parliamentary Assembly in its conclusions found necessary as information to be delivered to MPs. Here, this is a suggestion, and of course I believe that the unanimous decision of the Joint Committee on Human Rights is quite enough to make an argument to approach the development of an additional report that will be comprehensive and answer the questions raised by the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14965	Thank you. No more reports. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Consideration of the parliamentary initiative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalice, submitted on 12.07.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge that, no later than 60 days after the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the report on youth in Bosnia and Herzegovina is presented in parliamentary procedure," Act No 01-50-1-1906/16. The dom Kolegijum has appointed the Joint Committee on Human Rights as responsible for considering this initiative. The Joint Commission delivered its opinion on the initiative on 29/08/2016. With the approval of the motionors, the initiative has been modified and it is now said: "The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge that, by the end of 2016 at the latest, the report on youth in Bosnia and Herzegovina is also being submitted to the parliamentary procedure." The Commission adopted the modified initiative and forwarded it to the House for further action. I'm opening a debate. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14967	I thank the chairman. 43 I feel obliged to report or give a summary of the initiative itself and what prompted me to this initiative, but also why I agreed to modify it. So, it is that we have all been happy to receive and welcome the news distributed in the media, which says that the summit on the Western Balkans was held in Paris on 4 July 2016 under the implementation of the Berlin Process Agenda, signed an Agreement establishing a Regional Office for the Cooperation of Young countries of the Western Balkans. The bearer of all this and the signator of it is distinguished Minister Osmanović, BiH's Ministry of Civil Affairs. So, such news is very simple and it would be very good if we received this news and we knew in fact who the young are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where, except that we abuse information that, some of us, is for pre-election purposes or... political purposes, using it to leave us, that we are all concerned, that we do not know what to do, and when you open a report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH any year, when you see how many agencies, directors, commissions we have in our jurisdiction and work description also contain provisions concerning young people, i.e. it is their responsibility to deal with and to influence the position of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such a commission is just a commission operating within the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and is called the Commission for the Co-ordination of Young Bosnia and Herzegovina's Youth Issues. The Commission has 9 members, 4 come from institutions, which means some are from state, some from entity levels and agencies and 5 from the NGO sector. When you open the Rules of Procedure and the first sentence where they say they are very transparent and public in their work and if you would like to deal with reading what they have been doing since 2010, you will not find a single report because it is reportedly only being forwarded to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration. We here as the most legislative body, and not even the public themselves, should be aware of all this. So, the Commission says, proposes and implements, Article 6 of their Rules of Procedure on Labour, a solution to the institutional framework, the development of proposals for youth policy, initiatives towards governments and parliaments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including proposals for new ones, and amendments and additions to existing legal solutions, youth meetings organisations, initiatives towards international and other institutions. So, my question, except that in the 2015 Council of Ministers' report, for which we only get 5 minutes to discuss the same, and there are 300 pages, there are 170 agencies, directorates, commissions and everything else, we get 5 minutes to refer to their bug report, i.e. the copy-pass, because every year it is copied, and so the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in 2015 states in the report everything that was stated in 2014 which would relate to this topic, or what they took for the position of young people. Among other things, they themselves say in the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, you can check on their website, says the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs with the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Employment, Health, Social Protection and Pension Fund and the Agency for Labour and Employment are directly responsible for the employment and employment sector. There are two other permanent bodies at the BiH Council of Ministers, which are essential for the development of youth employment policy. Which young ones, where, how, what? Strategies, activities, realised and activities, of course there is no word. I note, too, when the budget is taken also 213 or 216 thousand KM is separated into the work of various committees within this sector, which should, as if at least once a month, be occupied and deal with their jurisdiction. So I put 60 days into this so that one answer to this question or this initiative could be given in 60 days, because I believe that in their work they must have collected all this information, that they have data sorted by sex because Gender's action plan by 2015 accurately prescribed activities that in response to Mr. Zvizdić's parliamentary question, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, kindly welcomes and says that he is doing everything to improve the state of the less-represented sex in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we do not have any 44 documents that classify our gender statistics, so that we know within the young, firstly, how many young, how many women, men, who are employed, who are unemployed. And this is all just initiated, the flossula everyone uses, or most of it not to say it all, is a brain drain, and we all kind of just talk about it, nothing is done. Brain drain means we're losing human resources. So you have information from Mostar, the Chamber of Commerce of the City of Mostar even The fear that they won't have enough, let's say that some foreign investor, which we like, will not have enough labour because they're all gone. [[Embassy is warned on time]] The question is, are we going to import labor? What was done about it? So there's a mass of questions here. I hope that all these numbered commissions, agencies, directorates and only the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs will give us relevant information by the end of 2016. And that's the gentlemen of the present and the future, to stop dealing with it, the past should never be forgotten just because it shouldn't be our part-time work to deal with just the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14968	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14969	I'm just suggesting that we change the title of the initiative, that it be a report on the position of young people, because it's actually the highest part and it's related to it. So, this report on young people what? I suggest that if the promoter accepts the name of the Youth Position Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14970	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14971	Well, I, uh, think this report will actually have to contain a set of reports from different institutions. It's just different he can't be. If that is the case, then in this section that speaks of institutions that need to submit reports, I would not list any institutions at all, starting from the listed BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to the BiH Economic Planning Directorate, but rather stick to a sentence to do so by institutions in which there are some of these issues. Why? Because if we limit ourselves or point out some, I'm afraid we're going to be denied for a series of answers that we need, which these institutions can't give here. So, it shouldn't be in the initiative to stand who's going to give, it's clear who's in charge of this sphere and that one and get the information. That will be decided at the end of the BiH Council of Ministers when it asks for information, they will see who they should get the information from. And I will support this initiative in that variant because it was signed by Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14972	Thank you. Milica Marković, the debate. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14973	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I want to say briefly, so this initiative itself, by its own content, is certainly a subject to be talked about, because I see this initiative and its contents as a question of life, therefore, from the society in which we live, and in the youth population, no one can be indifferent, I, of course, as a mother and a woman who has two young people in the family of 20 and 22 years. But what I'm saying is, of course, with the agreement of the promoter, it seems to me that this formulated, so to deliver a report on young people is quite, as I would say, fluid and very broad, and it creates one possibility that those who submit this report, who will certainly be a summed report from both the entity and the Commission, who, as we heard from Mrs. Gasal, is not very commendable in their work, so in that Sumar report, we can get some answer that will not give us an answer to some of the questions that we are interested in. And we all know here, and we are aware that what is priority today and what is imperative for every young person in Bosnia and Herzegovina is social status, is educational issues and, of course, when they are educated, when college diplomas come to the issue of employment or unemployment, I claim that there are three, in the social context, health insurance and certain human rights. But if we were to specify what is required in that report then I think there is a likelihood that we will get certain concrete questions, but if we leave it in general, of course I say it again depends on whether we accept it because the initiative has already been modified once, but if we really want a concrete and quality answer then I think we should focus on the specific things that we care about and what it is that we want to explain, that the answer is to explain why certain problems and certain issues in this society are in relation to the young population as they are. So, that's, I only volunteered for that suggestion in order to get a better and more concrete report when it was delivered to us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14974	Thank you. This concludes the agenda. So, the proposal is because it's not a large agenda for us to immediately approach the vote, with just 5 minutes of consulting inside the clubs here on the spot, if you agree, not to take a break from the O.R. and return but to join the vote immediately. So at 13:10, it's a vote. Please take your seats to check that you are registered and services to see if the monitors of those who are not present are included. So we're going to vote for the 35th session of the House of Representatives. First item – The adoption of the minutes of the 34th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We are voting on the adoption of the minutes with the addition of MP Nikola Lovrinović. For 35, you don't mind, no abstentions. I find the record has been adopted. 46 We are going to the 3rd item of the agenda – Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-2063/16, from 28.07.2016. We're voting for the adoption of the law. For 18, versus 16, abstention 1. No entity majority, number of votes needed. We're going to the second round right now. For 18, versus 16, abstention 1. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. So the bill hasn't been passed. Point 4. – Proposal for a law on the provision of free legal assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1-1789/16, since 28.06.2016 (second reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading. For 29, against six abstentions. There's a general and entity majority, so we passed the bill in the second reading. Let's go to point 5. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1510/16, since 13.07.2016 (second reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14976	There's something wrong with my device.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14977	We need to repeat the vote due to technical problems for the fifth item of the agenda. Prepare to vote. For 22, against six, abstentions six. There's a general and entity majority, so the bill was passed. We're going to point six. – Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1853/16, since 07.07.2016 (first reading), a shortened procedure. We vote on setting a new deadline for the delivery of Opinions by 15.09.2016. Prepare to vote. For 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're going to point 7. – Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01.02- 02-1854/16, since 07.07.2016 (first reading), a shortened procedure. We vote on setting a new deadline for the delivery of Opinions by 15.09.2016. 47 For 31, there are no, abstentions 5. There is a general and entity majority, a new deadline has been adopted. Point 8. – Declaration of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and Allocation of Revenues – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-185/16, since 07.07.2016 (first reading), a shortened procedure. We vote on setting a new deadline for the delivery of Opinions by 15.09.2016. For 31, there are no, abstentions 5. There's a general and entity majority, and we've adopted a new deadline. We're going to point 9. – Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act – Proposer: Home to the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-669/16, from 18.07.2016 (first reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. For 14, versus 14, abstention 8. There is no general majority, so no bill was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 10. – Report by the College of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-1950/16, since 18.07.2016 (the law in first reading). We are voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading in the second round of voting. For 21, v. 9, abstention 6. There is an entity and general majority, meaning the bill was passed. Point 11. – Report on the Commission's work on conflict of interest for 2015, issue: 01,02,03-50-19-2071/16, since 29.07.2016. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 20, against 14, abstention 2. The general and entity majority exist, so we adopted the report. Point 12. – Report on freedom of speech and the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-50-1575/15, since 18.07.2016 (realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, held on 16.02.2016). We're voting for adoption of the report. For 20, against 11, abstention 5. There are both general and entity majority. We are now voting on the adoption of the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Human Rights. For 30, against six, there are no abstentions. The general and entity majority exist, we've adopted conclusions. We move to the 13th point – Consideration of the parliamentary initiative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalice, submitted on 12.07.2016, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge that, no later than 60 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the Parliamentary House of the Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH delivers a report on youth in Bosnia and Herzegovina", act No 01-50-1906/16. Here we had an agreement by the promoter and, I don't know, Mr. Lovrinović, who proposed to re-form himself on the position of young people. The promoter accepted that amendment. So we're voting on... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14978	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14979	And why we don't have it, can I have it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14980	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14981	It's already changed. And what do they want by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14982	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-08-30-0.u14983	Okay, so we accept these amendments that have been agreed and we vote to adopt an amended initiative. Prepare to vote. For 30, against 3 abstentions 3. The general and entity majority exist, so the initiative was adopted. I'm closing the 35th session. The next session is scheduled for October 12th. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 13:30 p.m.
