ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21239	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, continue the 5th emergency session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MP Saša Magazinović and Momčilo Novaković. According to the service information, the session is present on this basis, according to technical service information, 40 present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. At the 5th emergency session, held on 30.05.2016, the House adopted a conclusion authorising the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information within 10 days on the 2013 census on the set agenda of the 5th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The Council of Ministers provided information on the current state of activity on the processing of the results of the census, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016, prepared by the BiH Statistics Agency. The materials you received today, since the session was held only yesterday. I'm opening a debate. MP Dušanka Majkić, discussion. I apologize, I apologize, the correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Please, how she blamed the quote when she didn't even start, is that my... [[Common discussion]] Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21241	The Honorable Chairman, given that we, and all related to the Rules of Procedure, will also list members, discussed this for a long and long time last time, if you can remember, I asked for a stenogram of my presentation to be shared with the MPs. The stenogram was not divided, it was only given to me, because I was there rough and then by those media about which Mrs. Pandurević spoke, torn senselessly, because I was always talking in the first face of one, and I didn't mention it once, but I said it – me, me, me, me. And at the very least, the classmate who so rudely addressed me, should at least tell those media that she was wrong, at the very least. Because here's where there's nothing at least a fair relationship between us inside the MPs something that should beautify us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21242	Thank you. Ambassador Dušanka Majkić, debate. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you all.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21244	I'm sorry, I'm asking the service to set the discussion time for 10 minutes, this is the rest of the previous session. Just that if you can log on to that monitor again, you can turn on the microphone. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21245	So here I really think that we are missing and what little desire to make an agreement and an agreement on important things in this country, because if we're not able to make such a concession, here under quotes I say concession, and we held this session before the 31st session, I think many results would be different. And because of some stubbornness that can't be explained by anything, the condition is what it is. And we're all getting wet here to this level that we're leading things to absurdity, just like today's subject that we're talking about. I'm very unhappy to see only two ministers on this left. This shows how committed and committed the country's executive power is to this important issue in BiH. Tragically, this could not be found in any African country, that the executive government behaves in the way the BiH Council of Ministers behaves. I read in the media that it's 14.06. The Council of Ministers informed the Statistics Agency of the current state of activity to process the results of the 2013 census of the population, households and dwellings, and that it is responsible for the General Secretariat to deliver the Information, i.e. to forward the Information to the Parliamentary Assembly. I cannot believe that the Council of Ministers is without a single word, literally copying the text, or that text that was received from the BiH Statistics Agency, without feeling any responsibility to say two sentences or so, and it is about things that can be serious for this country. We haven't had a list in 25 years, the last one in '91. It is also unrecognized and this one that seems to be unrecognized, and this Parliament is solidly bestowing on it. Why did I think the Council of Ministers had to have a responsibility for something like this? The Council of Ministers' incompetences are to appoint and resolve the director of the BiH Statistics Agency. The director was recently appointed and simply amazing that within 4-5 months, the director comes out with such decisions. He's hardly been able to master everything and get to know all the things that have been going on, let alone make such big decisions. Secondly, the Council of Ministers signed a Memorandum with the IMO, an international organisation that conducted, or followed the elections, this list, and on that basis, was responsible. The Council of Ministers has appointed a co-ordinator in both the past and the current assembly. The Council of Ministers determines the budget, adopts a report on the work of this Agency, so that's all the reasons it can't say, and I'm not interested in one agency in the Council of Ministers to bear that weight and responsibility, and that everyone else is behind it. I want to say a few arguments challenging the Single Data Processing Program. I think that these are all things that concern the law and in every dispute that follows, it will be easy to prove that the director of this agency did not respect the law. The first thing, not to be taken into account in Article 21b of the law, means that entity institutions participate in the adoption of a single programme. So it's not one man's free will, especially not to have the Agency's director meet his associates, so two deputies. Secondly, it refers to Article 28. The List Act, which has nothing to do with the Single Data Processing Programme, is a methodology for preparing and implementing the list, adopted in 2013. Furthermore, it is referred to Articles 8, 9 and 18. The Law on 3 Statistics, which is not reference, because the General Law on Statistics is here, and here is the Law on the List of Lex Specialis, i.e. lex Generalis, which treats and works on it, and not the Statistics Act. Calling on the Law on Statistics of Republika Srpska cannot be a legal basis for the adoption of a Single Data Processing Programme, when we need something, then we put in what is not. And lastly, at point 6, I would like to say that the Law does not know the Regulation of the EC 223 2009, but only mentions Regulation 763/2008. and a recommendation from European statisticians, so only two documents, none of which are listed by the Director in his Report. Now, a little chronology, a few words. The first meeting of discussions on this topic at a session in the presidency, three members of the presidency, Mr. Zvizdić, Bevanda, Mr. Šarović and Bosić, was then agreed to extend the deadline to 31.12 and to resolve this issue after the election. The second date is important, 10.05.2016. when the Council of Ministers is informed by the Agency to request an extension from 01.07. to 31.12. It'll be interesting why something that's over should be asked to extend the gender to 31.12. The third thing is on 16.05. Mr Jukić's departure to the Prosecutor's Office and the fourth 18.05. when Mr Jukić makes the Decision on the Unique Data Processing Programme not even informing his first associates. That's the way we communicate and negotiate, that's the knife in the back that the Republika Srpska presidency member was talking about, and that's the habits we can't get rid of, I guess, thinking that at those moments we're going to grab something more for ourselves than the other two peoples. Was there any pressure? That's the key question, was there any pressure? And these dates need to respond, whether there was pressure and who was doing these pressures. But here are a few things that need to be drawn specifically, because Mr. Jukić particularly favours the recommendations of the IMO team, so that these representatives at the Joint Meeting of all the directors of statistical institutions, which was in the European Commission delegation on 26.05, will hear the following from the President of EUROSTAT. These are a broad set of international recommendations each country takes what it considers to be meaningful and reference, and this is what we should have reached an agreement on. And right after that, they say, the List Act has stronger legal power than IMO recommendations. And that's what the Director of the Statistics Institute, or the Statistics Agency, deafens to, is what he's done, he's aware of it. And one more thing, one more reminder to make. This IMO team followed the whole procedure in Montenegro, and when this happened in BiH, all these lists were removed because they were not legal, they were not legal. They probably saw here what kind of danger could happen, not knowing our chances well, and taking care of their success in that plan, they decided as they decided. Infringed by the following laws, the following members of the law – Article 2 and 7 which defines who they are. Article 11 for children under 15, data is provided by parents, guardians and adoptors. Article 37, which defines the deadline for publication of the results of the census, so 01.07., until then only the population will be published, and the full results of the census, agriculture, households, apartments will not be known when. So in 01.07. we'll only have the population number, we won't have everything else. What are the consequences? The consequences are such that illegal and incorrect data will have a major impact on life in this country. I am instructed by examples that in one part of the agricultural sector and where agriculture was listed, where a certain number of agricultural households were established, that no one actually lives there. It's those imaginary households that checked in on some addresses that don't exist, and so what's done is done, we have absolutely distorted data. It is alarming that in some parts up to 50% are deviations, and.../sound warning for the MP/.. is recognised from 3 to 5%. 4 And another thing I want to say in the end, I've made a few conclusions. I think it's... necessary to determine them, which is, the first conclusion is: 1. The House of Representatives tasks the Council of Ministers to declare the Director of the Statistics Agency's Decision on the Single Data Processing Programme for the List of Populations, Households and Apartments and to put it out of force. 2. It requires the BiH Statistics Agency, together with the entities' statistical institutions, to propose a harmonised Single Data Processing Programme in line with the List Act. 3. The Council of Ministers is asked to refer to the parliamentary procedure an amendment to the List Act extending the time limit for the publication of the census to 31.12. It won't be a final deadline, but at least we're in time, at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21246	Thank you. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21247	I thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I would not like to leave the message that this session has been called because of how many people there will be by these results and the methodology of processing that he passed by the law, Mr. Jukić. First of all, this is about respect for the law, respect for the laws of this country and, if you want, some kind of interference of a pillar of government, in this case, the judiciary or the prosecution, into the independence of institutions. As already mentioned by her distinguished colleague, Majkić, on May 10th, the director of the Statistics Agency sent a letter to the Council of Minsitare, which was received on 16 May by the Council of Ministers. The letter states that, taking into account the evaluations of statistical institutions and IMO teams, it is necessary for a period of 4 to 5 months to process and publish the results of the list, following the establishment and acceptance of the Single Programme, that it is not possible to achieve legal obligations within the prescribed time limit. These distinguished directors, asked the Council of Ministers to bring, to propose amendments and additions, the Honorable Director, to propose a Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the deadline and extend until 31 December, publication of the results. Be careful, it is May 16th, 18th, the director takes the decision to adopt a Single Data List, Households and Apartments Programme in BiH in 2013. What happened in one day, so I ask you a question? Is it the D.A.'s conversation or not, has anyone else put pressure on you? But it's very strange, first of all I'm called – the adoption decision. So who adopted the decision, one man? In doing so, the Director shall be referred to Article 8. Law on Statistics of BiH and Articles 20 and 28 Census law. Article 8. The Statistics Act states that the Agency is the competent authority for the processing, distribution and identification of BiH statistics, be careful, the Agency is not the Director, and it is deliberately and intentionally forgotten that the decision to establish the Statistics Agency is published in the "Official Messenger" 16/98, which says that the Director is not the Agency, but that all decisions in the Agency are taken by consensus of the Director and his two deputies. In this case, there is no consensus between the director and two deputies. The Director is in charge of making decisions exclusively, regulations for which the law gives him authority. In the case of the Unique Methodology and the Census Act and the Statistics Act, they refer to the Agency, not the Director. So they're talking about the director and his two deputies. Article 20, which also provides for the Law on the List, which also calls for the esteemed Mr. Jukić in his Decision, to determine that the Agency determines a unique and internationally comparable methodology. Article 28 says, to which it is called in this Decision, the Director of the Agency shall provide for lists of forms. What does that have to do with a unique methodology? The Director of the Agency is laying down a rule on the destruction of a list building, where does he get from this article, how do you draw on what you've done? So, I repeat, the Director of the Agency has the authority to adopt acts for which the law gives him jurisdiction. I'd like you to really find a member of the law here who gave you the authority to make this decision. And it is our legitimate right to dispute such a decision with legitimate means before the competent courts. And I don't know if the Honorable Director, when he was making this decision, was aware that he didn't just open this crisis, but that he opened up the whole spiral of the crisis, because we're going to file charges or appeals to the courts. One is that it is respected, the results of the list fall into the water. Second case, we are convinced that all arguments and legal professions are on our side. Not to be respected, the issue of political influence on the BiH justice system and the legitimacy of their decisions is reopened. The sledeći crisis after what Mr. Jukić did is impossible to avoid in any case. It is possible to avoid only one way, if Mr. Jukić could endure, withdraw his decision, it would be morally, if you could not endure the pressure, to resign. Why, if you can't handle coercion and someone's forcing you to do illegal things, you'll have to resign nicely. Furthermore, here, you keep calling in this report, yes, first of all to say this, and the content of the Unique Programme itself is illegal and contrary to Article 37. Census law. Because the Unity Programme says that by July 1st a total number of residents will be published at all levels of government, and that the data will be published in succession. The law is clear, the deadline for publishing all data is July 1st, so the content of the Single Programme itself is contrary to the Census List Act. Constantly calling for IMO recommendations, IMO teams. Dear colleague Majkić has already said that Mr. Everas said the law is above recommendations. We have received over 500 recommendations, whether so, and they relate to compliance with international legislation, are widely laid down, as Mr Everas said and do not enter domestic legislation. In addition, I will remind you that Mr Everas in his last letter to the Council of Ministers, which arrived the other day, said that he was aware of the problems with internal legislation, but that he left the authorities to resolve it, and that he thinks that the Single Programme is a good basis, be careful of a good basis, just a good basis. So, I call on all colleagues today to make one decision that is primarily in the interest of everyone, which is to invite Mr Jukić, to put his illegal decision out of force, so that we can all adopt here amendments and amendments to the law and extend the deadline for publishing the census results by the end of the year, because I fear not only that we will have unworthy, illegal data, but we will also have unworthy data, because this is what we will have false statistics on both population structure and population incomes and on gross social product per capita and on agricultural and economic structure, about everything. And there's a point that we don't end up getting that kind of results. Well, in what's-his-name. Kosovo, self-proclaimed,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21248	Thank you. The intervention, i.e. the debate, was heard by Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mirko Šarović. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21249	Thank you. And I may say at first that I am not speaking on behalf of the Council of Ministers, since there is no chairman, but I am speaking as a minister and perhaps more to refer to perhaps a comment or opinion, that the Council of Ministers has not held a debate on this issue. I must say that yesterday we discussed this issue in two separate parts and that the debate lasted quite a bit, in which several ministers participated in the Council of Ministers, distinguished Mr Jukić, Minister Crnadak, Osmanović, me and others. And I must say, there were no conditions for this information to be adopted in any way. I don't need to explain and detail why there were no conditions for such a thing, but there were no conditions to ask Mr. Jukić to put off this decision or to withdraw it, or there were no conditions for the Council of Ministers to ask him to do so. And of course, a number of ministers coming from Republika Srpska took advantage of the opportunity to ask Mr. Jukić on several occasions, with our view that if he uses and resets it, we will not be able to seek his position, or opinion, that the decision is illegal with the competent judicial institutions and as others have said. I think it's a legitimate position, but of course that legitimate position should be confirmed by those who are competent, as is the legitimate very opposite of the view that what has been passed is in accordance with the law. All that the honourable MPs had said before me, perhaps I would have said it again, I also said it on several occasions, mentioning the dates, meaning May 5 and May 10 and May 16 and 18th, perhaps only one left on March 10th 2016, when the Council of Ministers discussed the State of the List, in which the Council of Ministers reached a conclusion in which he asked the Director to use the Agency, of course, to take advantage of this moment and the remaining time until 01/07, to find a solution to the data processing of the census, a list of 2013 through the adoption of a Decision, i.e. the Unique Data Processing Programme. And completely, I would like to say that one number, but only one number of members of the Council of Ministers took advantage of the opportunity and pointed out their position, that the decision and the Unique Methodology and the Unique Data Processing Programme, that it was not in accordance with the law, that the call for members of the Statistics Act and the call for members of the BiH Census in 2013 was completely wrong and invited to, in particular, the Methodology called upon by the esteemed Director Jukić, had already once been used through the adoption of the Methodology on the preparation and processing and implementation of the 2013 census. Of course, I also took the opportunity to say that the key time was missed, and of course I want to say in this way, that both the decision and the Unique methodology should have been made in 2013, but it wasn't made, that it should have been made in 2014 or 2015, and we came to this, in this, I would say, critical time. I wouldn't recommend it, someone suggested that the initiative be launched now and that it be amended and complemented by a law that would extend this deadline to, by the end of 2016. I think that would be wrong, because we would go right to the hand-published Decision on the Unique Methodology. It can, but provided that it goes back and Decision and Methodology, because it's obvious that by 01.07. we'll only get total results and maybe some more, but the question is what happens after 01.07. So think about it more carefully. I do not know, of course, what the Parliamentary Assembly is going to do, she asked for the Information, my assessment was that the Information does not meet the criteria and standards and the needs of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is why it was not absolutely voted on, while it was, of course, the integrity of the Council of Ministers, I merely said, once again, I am speaking for myself. And here I used this time to maybe bring up these few facts, so the Council of Ministers had a serious debate, but of course we didn't have seven key things, and that's why we had the only chance to pass this information on to this House, and the information is from the first to the last letter of the Information Director of the Statistics Agency of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21250	Discussion, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21251	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Some 15-16 days ago, when we were discussing whether to have an emergency session today, I was one of the few MPs who opposed this session, against this addressed item of the agenda, and I voted against even today to discuss it in this way. And I think, and now I'm even more convinced that I was absolutely right, because this debate is nothing more than running away from a fundamental debate and from a fundamental problem, when we talk about demographicism and the population in BiH. And I don't know why we ran away, if we want to open these topics, from this fundamental debate. And what's the point? The point is that BiH does not have a population of nearly 900,000 people, compared to the last census in 1991, according to the 2013 census, and there is less than 1 million people. Well, people, if you had such unfavourable demographic trends in one China and India, and they'd grab their heads and say, this is a problem, let's see what it is and what the problem is. Among these 900,000 inhabitants, in the last census compared to the '91 census. There are no Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and Rom and Jevrej, other numerous BiH citizens. Shouldn't we have opened this fundamental debate, and not just now to get into the issue of '92-'95, how many people because of the wrongly set policies and topics went and went away today from BiH, especially young people. Aren't these key issues, aren't they essential questions for this Parliament and for this country? And we have been put in a position to discuss whether we should still discuss whether we need another 200,000 people in BiH to reduce this country and all its citizens and peoples. I repeat, I don't think it's a fundamental debate, nor that it's a good debate, nor that it goes in favour of any nation or citizen of this country. And I think if we continue to talk about this sensitive subject, that less and less will have to do with statistics and demographics and European standards and laws, and more and more will go to some side that no one will benefit from. Of course, since I come from the SDP of BiH, a multiethnic political party, I understand very much that there are certain fears in this country, I understand very well that we need to agree that all people in this country feel equal and equal. We should all work together on that, but how do we do that? I think it is better that we have opened this debate in a way that we all agree by consensus, to initiate one 21st century BiH project and to find ourselves in this project. To be fair and honest, the constitutional position of a nation will not depend on whether it is 2-3 percent or less. Are we all ready to reach a consensus on these basic issues and turn it into laws, if necessary, constitutional norms. It's a serious story. It's something that would restore the safety and trust of every nation and every man in this country. That's what we should talk about. And as for the Agency itself and what the Honorable Director of Jukić, our former colleague here in Parliament, this is not a job for us in Parliament. If there's anything that's been illegally done, they have the competent authorities to evaluate it. Well, somebody didn't think that we as MPs still need to become judges to judge. It doesn't work, it can individuals get out here at a session, but it just doesn't work. 8 So to conclude the debate. Let's all think about what is the essential problem of BiH, think about what kind of demographic disaster we've come up with, how this demographic disaster continues and how to stop it. And in parallel with that, let's think about it openly, talk about it, and agree that, regardless of the percentage below of a nation, we will have a principled view that all the peoples and citizens of this country have constitutional and any other guarantees, that they will be equal. So let's think about the democratic BiH project, multiethnic BiH in the EU of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21252	Zaim Backović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21253	Bosić, thank you again. You're welcome. It's like we're programmed not to make any arrangements. This is what I told me, because I mean all of us. And now I'm going to speak in my own, me and in my first face, so that it won't be interpreted again if I spoke in the name of collectiveity. I wonder if the lists that were presented to those who were being listed were previously agreed and harmonised? Were the materials that those who listed the materials agreed, or adopted, and presented to anyone who was being listed? If not, then the list is absolutely invalid. If they are, then we have another question now. We're all here now reading these laws, and this one, and they said, and they said, and we have a terrible task ahead of us. And now the dilemma in front of each of us, now the dilemma in front of me, I speak again in the first person, is that since I was one of those who had to study statistics in my life, and he had to take it very hard on two occasions, once as a student, and the second time at a postgraduate study, and they weren't doing this seminarical, do essays, do it, they were exams real and real exams, where we had to elaborate it well and study it. If this form is made and it contains 1 to X questions and if that form is filled in, why is it not fully processed? Why must data processing methodology be brought in particular now, when each question to itself is one of the information that needs to be elaborated or presented? No one's answered that yet. What's the reason? I wonder what is the reason to ask, that now that something has been adopted on the basis of which the census was conducted, it must be revised and processed by some methodology? How is that possible? Then it's a set of false data. Because when you do it and you don't process what's been filled, you don't process the exact data. You will process incorrect data and then you will deceive the whole of BiH. Did anyone react when the lists were made? Has anyone said – this isn't right, this can't, this can't, this has to be defined differently, and you've done something against that attitude? If it isn't, then statistics as science doesn't know this, no matter how much we're resisting here in every way to say it anyway. And now, let me put it this way, statistics don't know you're working on a new method now. Then run a new list. Because you're going to leave the data off the list. If you leave out the data, you're lying to us. So what's the ultimate goal, does someone actually see what the ultimate goal is? Nazir. A lot of people are wrong if they think that citizens of all the revolutions don't see what it's all about and that they're absolutely clear on what it's about. But in this way, no matter how much statistical data is distorted, and they bend in this country from all sides, from the VDP, through real GDP growth at the annual level, over, I can now elaborate it here about lying in statistics, as much as you want. Because statistics have proved that one is equal to two. That Nikola knows, Nidžo across the triangle how to prove one equals two, in statistics. No, you don't prove yourself and you see that one is equal to two, that's statistics. Don't do this to us. And let's not attack the director who made the decision, he's actually cut to get out of the blind track, and it's not the way it's presented, it's not correct, it's not 9 broken. I'm not going to... law, I can read them here one by one, so the law then a member, so the law then a member, just these ten minutes is little. It is necessary to create and process a complete list. As a man, since I've been filling out my list, unless every piece of information on my list is processed, I'm going to ask for criminal responsibility from those who haven't done it. I want what I've filled in to process, because that's what I've done. You can't erase a part of what you offered me to answer. If you do, that list is worthless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21254	MP Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21255	Well, maybe there's a need that some people haven't had a chance to read all those documents and be, to get involved in all of this and maybe there's a few things missing to say anyway. What's so controversial about what we're talking about? The maximum number of lists is filled in correctly and it is undeniable. The second part of the list is partially filled, unclear. What does that mean? It cannot be concluded whether it is a non-resident or resident. So, is the person really living here or not? What does that mean? One of the questions on the list is, what's the length of the absence? The answer is, if it's up to a year, it's a non-resident, if it's shorter than a year, it's a resident. So it has to be filled out. But what happens next, because this list is such that if you make a conscious mistake in one place, a unconscious mistake, you'll discover yourself on the next. Next question says, how long do you intend to be gone? No answer, empty field. And now Mr. Jukić is going to try to add the missing fields, and that's why that's the problem, that's part of it. And the other part, filled in all but unconsistent. What does that mean? The answers to the questions are like this, the person said he wanted to live here and live here and still intends to live here, but he works in Sweden. So, he's going to live, he still wants to live, but now he's in Sweden. You have to admit, two quite the opposite information. One person can't live in Sweden and want to live here. And for these reasons it was written in the 13th IMO report that, that is, right after the list, and the IMO saw what was going on in the course of the list itself, that it should answer question number 40 that defines the place of work and schooling. It was a cap that solved all the disputes, which was skipped by Mr. Jukić. He turned his head on it, forgot everything and started adding, to make residents of the non-residents. So, the serious problem is and probably hard, with the right colleague, he can't understand what's going on and what's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21256	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21257	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I had to react. And I'd like Director Jukić to explain, where did this data come from, Mrs. Majkić? Well, that's the key question. So, where did you get the information from Mrs. Majkić from the Directorate? Is it a crime, who accused them, who already collected them, etc. etc.? Where did she get the information? I think the only mistake Mr. Jukić made was not doing it three or four months ago or maybe last year, and that story would have ended.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21258	10 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21259	And I'd like to not talk about the right reasons today, because the real reasons are 20 and a few years ago being said in this room across from us. And that's the real reason. Now that they're not as big a deal as they were planned, and then that's the problem. Then that's the problem. And if I have to, I'll call for a discussion, talk about the right reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21260	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21261	Your Honor, I always refer to the Codex. I would ask that the words – he doesn't know, he doesn't understand, unless I know, Mrs. Majkić, I'll go to the professor and take the exam, so he'll check if I know. You said he didn't know and he doesn't understand, the stenogram you're looking for, the stenogram. I know exactly what you said, and I can say every word again. And I'd ask you to protect the MP at times like that, you know. Someone to tell me I don't know, it's not a right, it's not my professor, it's not my mentor, and I don't understand. Also now to address, given this way that the lady has spoken to me, I will also directly to her, obviously she does not understand what it means to go and work temporarily. Will our diplomats not be listed? They are on temporary work 3-5, 3 years, 2 years, years, out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Will the people representing, for example, the Canton Sarajevo Representation in Brussels be non-residents? Will Republika Srpska's representation in Brussels and the people sitting there be non-residents? He won't. How are the residents if they are not in BiH for three years? Come on, please, so residents, but they are residents, at temporary work, people work there, earning income coming here to Bosnia. Mr. Sadik Ahmetović's last line is closest to the truth, but it's otto-pot. I'm just surprised by my colleagues in front of me to keep their mouths shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21262	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21263	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'm sorry the debates went this way. There is no question here, and it refers to what counterpart Ahmetović said both now and Mr Backović, how many, how many Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat, are there. Because, regardless of the numbers we have final, there's something called the Constitution that guarantees the consistency of three peoples and that no one can change. The thing is, a respected colleague, Backović, who cannot be listed in two places both in Germany and in BiH, which is that we are receiving irrelevant data, which is that we are receiving an irrelevant social and economic structure of this country. So please, that someone who lives and works in Germany and has 50,000-euro incomes and he will report, I have 50,000-euro incomes in BiH. A completely wrong economic picture of this country. And even what they're saying, if we're going to count these numbers, I don't think Bosniak national interest 11 is going to blow up population figures here. Why? Because it will show that the largest demographic decline has Srbin. And what twenty years of talking about the victimization of one nation and the Satanization of another people falls into the water. The entire political philosophy that was built up by inflating data falls into the water.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21264	So, MP Nikola Špirić, and after that, I will give my word to the director of the Agency, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21265	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. I am, so the census is a complex process. So, I'm a law-making participant, making lists to here today, and I think it should be that the work ends up being beautiful. In every normal country, publication of the results should be a solemn act even though no solemn manifestations are made. I'm afraid no institution in this country is prepared to open and reasonedly discuss challenges and problems... with us. We show too many surfaces and politics in all things that do not open the EU door, but I am afraid that they are opening new misunderstandings within the country, which everyone here today will say are not for this. So we have a mechanism of coordination published, and we are negotiating it today. So we have a story to make an agenda, is the decision from Brussels to make... progress, so I have a story, we have a story that it's going to be the results of 01/07 and it won't be. And all they see is the citizens of BiH and the international public. I call upon you to be patient and not to be superficial. I think the Secret Data Protection Agency should have reacted a long time ago. I don't know if there are 900,000 or a million or more people in BiH, it's estimated there are fewer, and how many, I don't know. What we're going to need is a data release, and here we are talking about the final numbers today. That only speaks of the country's disorder and we accuse each other. So I would ask the College, we can be the only country in Europe that for 35 years has no verified census results, no matter who challenge them, one entity, another entity, both entities or states. Well, we have to be aware of that. So please don't think this debate is over today. Don't let us finish it today. I call upon the College to call on the Expansive College to seek a solution. The question of the list can't be touched. It just doesn't make sense. I don't mean to accuse anyone or the director, but it's obvious here to speak and mention breaking the law. What do we need a list if he's challenged by any side? That doesn't strengthen the credibility of the country. I'm against us guessing how many residents there are. The law is clear, a strict application of the law is required, not a deal as many as it has. When you strictly apply the law and the list you will not make any mistakes. And I'm afraid of speed, and now we're in the middle of a barren political outwitting and racing. We will not get results and I fear that we will do irreparable damage to this country, that we will not open the door of the EU by a millimeter, although many outside this country and from the international community will applaud the Methodology published by Mr Jukić. Well, this is where we live, the others are on terms here for three years, four years, etc. And I ask that today, however it may be discussed, I allow us to open the debate wide, that we do not finish it, every speed in the conclusion of this debate in the manner in which it was conducted, the absence of the Council of Ministers, the chairman, the way that we do not have the Information Council of Ministers. As possible, I know when we passed the law, we created a list, so the Council of Ministers has a coordinator on behalf of the Council of Ministers. How is it possible that the Council of Ministers has no jurisdiction? Why are we running people away from trouble? I'm against accusing each other and I think we should have a hearing today and I'm asking you from the College, not to finish the debate, but 12 to invite the Expansive College to sit down one more time. It's always better to sit in this country a hundred times than to make a decision over your knee. Well, I guess experience teaches us that, no bad words. So I ask you, let him say who he thinks, just let us speak in accordance with the law and essentially without assessing how many people he has, because no results have been released. And it would be good to call the Secret Data Protection Agency, ask people where they got the data from. What will Jukić publish, if it is known that we have, how many people, how many praise people? So, I'm afraid of these doses of surface and giving a strict political tone and guessing how many BiH residents there are. The strict application of the law, a list that is not filled in, at the end of the ballot, invalid, I'm sorry. Residents and non-residents, you know what a resident is, what he's not a resident. I'm afraid we are now strictly involved in political waters. And the worst will be for this country, here to accept Methodology, to publish everything and to have some other authorities say, we don't recognize the results of the list. What's BiH got to do with it? What has any citizen of this country not to speak...? There's nothing. So please don't let us finish today. It's not worth it to us today that one side discusses and suggests conclusions if it goes on principle-touched and if we go back to '92. I'm against it. We'd better talk for ten days, stick to the law, and we'll get to Methodology if we want. So, we'll come if we don't, if we don't, I think the EU door doesn't open like this, it closes, and it opens wide open doors to bigger misunderstandings, that I'm not talking about the damage that will be done unless we have an approximate mistake, as well as all other demographic countries, a deviation of ±3%. If the test list shows that up to 20% of the lists or people are prescribed, what are we talking about? So when it comes out with the test list results, why aren't we talking about it? So no one needs that. And once again, I pray, not to conclude quickly, this country is exhausted by quick decisions, tragic decisions and I pray, therefore, for patience and it is better for this Parliament to make a decision than to involve others, with much greater misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21266	Director of the Statistics Agency BiH, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21267	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers and guests. I thank you for the opportunity to inform you about this important issue and the state of activity on the census, i.e. the processing of census data in 2013. The census in each country is an important event, it is a complex statistical operation which is specific in terms of what is being carried out on a full scale and not on a sample. This involves the involvement of significant resources, both human and material. You know that the census, which took place in 2013 in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this Parliament, has already been discussed there since 2007, then '08, '09, then a small stalemate, then again, in order to reach the Census Act that has been brought here and which is what it is and is today in force. And right at the beginning of my address, I'm going to say, I came to the Agency, and the appointment at the Council of Ministers was mid-12 months last year, so about six months ago. And I will talk about what was before, but without personal or any responsibility, but I will talk about that time since I arrived, since my appointment with full and personal responsibility of the Director of the BiH Statistics Agency. 13 There were some good ones, in my opinion, that these could be certain problems in the realization of the list. And that is why the Council of Ministers has done the Memorandum of Understanding, it is well known to you, but I will briefly discuss it, with the EUROSTAT European Commission, an IMO team has been formed, an International Promotional Mission with a role and a task to help, observe, observe and assist in the realisation of this job. Their task is, among other things, to ensure the course of this process so as to allow for the possible international comparability and recognition of these census results. In its work, the Council of Ministers proposed on behalf of, or resolution ministries, five of them, its representatives in the Central List Office, which they make up, except for the management of statistical institutions, and five representatives of the ministries. This body numbers 12 people and plays an important role in the preparation of documents, the monitoring of censuses, some type of coordination, and is also expected to try to find an agreement at a certain point on some important non-harmonised issues. If it were according to some expectations, and how it's usually done, it's that methodology is agreed at the beginning of the process itself. That didn't happen, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Šarović, spoke of it earlier. It happened the way it happened, it's a failure. And the simplest thing was that it was done then, then they wouldn't talk today, I guess or I'm sure, about this problem and the question. Why? Whatever the process of processing the results of the list was moving away from the beginning or approaching its end, it was becoming increasingly difficult to bring this important document which, I will repeat here, in point c) of Article 20. The census law says the methodology must be internationally comparable. So, in the Law, we made a commitment that methodology must be internationally comparable. Since mid-sixth month of '15. The IMO team is in its recommendations, and this is true, and I will say it here and again, there was not a single view of some of the issues methodologically, but through their work from their engagement to those days, by mid-sixth month 2015, they sought the best solutions in the talks with statistical institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Institute of Republics from Banja Luka and the Federal from Sarajevo and the Statistical Agency. And in the middle of the 6th month, they found in their reports, in some ways through recommendations, what is the methodology most acceptable, especially this concerns one issue, which is the implementation of a... permanent population, i.e. a resident population for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since then, the BiH Statistics Agency has defined the Data Processing Programme in its Census Office and adopted and adopted recommendations defined in the mid-sixth month. So that document was a year old and was discussed until a month ago. It was discussed at the 47th session of the Central List Office, actually more because some had several extensions. Since mid-12 months, the new management of the BiH Statistics Agency has started very actively with meetings seeking a solution to unsettled issues. Now I wouldn't take the time to talk about the details that are inconsistencies, if I can and talk about it, they were, depending on, from 4 to 6. These were the question of the order of exclusion, the question of the circumstances of giving answers for children under the age of 15, the issue of use... and question number 40, in order to extend the number of non-conforming issues to the last two sessions of the Central List Office by two more, and this is the way in which a variable of duration is implemented and the use of the resident-determining method is used. There's a little bit of talk about numbers, how much of a list is about to be disagreed on these issues. And what's very important here is what we often forget, which is that all of these questions, these all six issues, are highly professional statistical issues. And really let no one be angry, but you need certain and statistical knowledge, and even I'll say part and expertise, that it is properly and well discussed. And that was the whole debate at our meetings of the Central List Office and at the meetings of the management of the colleges, the management of statistical institutions. ...what we disagreed on, or disagreed on was the position of the Republic Institute of Banja Luka on these issues, which was different from the IMO team's position. The Federal Bureau of Statistics accepted IMO recommendations, not initially, but at the end of last year, and since then there has been a debate again, meaning, on the group of issues from the position that accepted IMO recommendations in one part, and in the other part did not. And what it is, I will now say my role here, 14 and that is whether there was a willingness, on whose side and how much to reach consensus and agreement, responsibly argue, I will repeat it, I have done everything, but just everything that was possible and rational to come to an agreement. Many people sometimes asked me why, if it makes sense, etc., I kept repeating, and I was right, it makes sense and needs until the list itself is compromised. I will answer a few questions here that seem illogical, which is how in turn the respected minister compared them here chronologically, so from the Council of Ministers, the conclusion that statistical institutions are making every effort to reach a solution and that the results of the census are published in time. We've really worked our asses off and we've been trying to get there. The second deadline of 05.05th meeting in the Bureau, I will be responsible for telling everyone here, I have not been informed about it, and I believe that if there was an agreement to extend the deadline, I am in my report to the Council of Ministers since 10.05., which was written before, but then carries that date, pleading for such a solution. Why? And the letter from Mr Everas, which was slightly older than this, means somewhere at the end of the 4th month, it is recommended to request an extension of the deadline so that they can be automatically and, in a way, without a great hurry to process and publish the results of the list. What's going on? We've been writing information to the Council of Ministers for about 20, almost a month. Why? And that's what I'm going to say here, these are very important elements to look at the real picture of the situation, to write one text then make a whole circle, go to one office, to another office, to the Central List Office, and then a new circle again. And in the end, we had a situation so that, I suggested, and so it was accepted, that everyone's comments and comments should be part of, in addition to this information. And finally there were more text comments than basic text, but okay, and it's also available to be seen and to have insight. We also point out after so much delay, I don't know what to say either, means objective and subjective reasons not to do it in time as it was imagined, to send such information, to the Council of Ministers' meetings, it doesn't go on the agenda. That's a fact. What remains specifically for the director of the Agency? The deadline leaks, it doesn't go to the Council of Ministers, we don't have the opportunity to address Parliament directly and then, of course, with a conversation and a deal with people who know what to do to process and publish, they say it can't be done in less than a month and a half, of six weeks. And then I'm really out of agreement, it's true, my fellow deputies, and on a proposal and according to the Programme that's already been discussed for months, for almost a whole year, I've decided according to my legal powers and obligations, above all to the obligations and powers, and it's been passed, i.e. I signed such a unique programme for the processing of population census data in 2013. It's a full and true truth. I will repeat here fully based on the law, and not only the law, but international standards in the field of statistics. Some of these are listed in the Information, I don't really want to repeat them, what's written to you is even more accurate than what I might be doing here, I can do a lapus, so I don't want to repeat it. And we knew by then that we had very little time left to do this, agreed on the same day the decision was signed, a press conference was called, that the media was informed and the public, we informed and
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21268	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. The word is Mr. Mladen Bosić, the correction of the wrong allegations, chairing the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21269	Mr. Jukić on you is a terrible burden, on you is a huge responsibility, you have made a decision that has caused a crisis, a political crisis that can be much deeper than it looks at this moment. This is when you talk about foreign experts, foreign experts are dealing with normal issues, they haven't learned about such con men as they are here, they haven't learned that people are thinking in advance how they're going to cheat the system, or even a list, not even knowing why they're doing it. You had to publish the data as it is. No Niko has anything against data, publish them as they are, announce how many of these people live abroad and say I work abroad, and live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Or my kids are abroad, my underage is 7 and 10 years old, and me, we all live in Bosnia and Herzegovina together. Put it on, those categories, so everyone can get what they want. And that's the solution. I don't know what kind of probilistic methods you said, please, 16 of you. I mean, maybe that's true of Sweden, so when some lady didn't see a field fill it up, then he filled it out. It may be for these normal systems, but it's clearly done here, so when the list was declared, everyone objected to make a political contribution in some way to their group and send messages that they should do something about it and create a political atmosphere that everyone is thinking about cheating on the other side. Here, I'm not talking about either side here, so I'm not talking about it, because I don't know exactly what relationships are. And secondly, here's what you said now, but you didn't say what happened to the D.A. and your invitation to go make a statement. So, that detail, I was present at the meeting when a political agreement was made because of the sensitivity of the list's subject to prolonging until December 31st. After that he comes to the Council of Ministers, as we heard several times there, your request to do so. So if that's a coincidence, we all accidentally telepathically think the same thing, and you had no idea about it or I had no idea about your intention. The situation that you were called about the list in the Prosecutor's Office before the date on which the legal deadline for the publication of the results of the list is clear is that there is political, or judicial pressure on all of this. Here, we here now, this discussion isn't really about how to find a way out of this situation, this discussion is about how what we've been able to cheat, and we think we're better off, each other, how to keep it instead of finding a way to solve it. And it's very simple, you withdraw that decision and publish it all, you publish everything, make sure the data is correct. And let me tell you, at the end of the day when you publish that same EUROSTAT or I don't know which agency, or state agency, big countries have serious statistical agencies because they base all their planning on the results of the agencies, they will declare your results unreliable and will not take them into consideration around Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we're going to get into a situation where everything was in vain and we've made an incredible political crisis over the technical issue of the census. Here, I invite you to say what happened in the D.A.'s office, did the D.A.'s office ask you before the June 31st deadline to ask you anything about the list, and is that pressure? You say it's not pressure on me, I don't feel like pressure. Well, that's clear what it was, and that's enough to question this whole list story. We can handle this easily, I said, here's a question of will, but if someone thinks they won here because they put 100,000, I don't know, of their countrymen more on some territory, less, so that doesn't really mean anything. Only wrong data will be, and nothing at all will change Bosnia and Herzegovina's system at all, nor relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what happened to Mr. Jukić, it's yours, I think it's too much weight and you need to think about how to resolve this, because this will remain something that's on your soul and later.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21270	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21271	Thank you very much. He took some of what I wanted to say to the chairman, but I still can't say that we remember Mr. Jukić for a while, and we know for a fact that he's not the kind of man who would pull anything that could have a lot of repercussion and make that decision. And I think he had to do it for some reason. It's so much easier for his position to withdraw from all this. There's a chance he'll do it, so here's a colleague, my suggestion, we don't have to agree, right, and if he were, if all that were to be agreed on. But what's really inexplicable is that statistical institutions, here's at least how you write here in this letter of yours, that they had very similar opinions when it comes to all of this, and now that you say just now that something like that needs great knowledge and expertise. How is it possible that people who have had a very similar moment to come to the next moment you, 17 who are not a man of the profession, and you cut it off and you make a decision. I mean, it's impossible to defend. Because here I see that, practically the Federal Bureau, he didn't even want to make a statement – I'm waiting from the Council of Ministers to see what he's going to say. People don't know what to say, to see what the Council of Ministers will say. The Council of Ministers doesn't even answer. So after all, the entity statistical institutes again sent a letter directly to the president of the IMO team that he, they said, disagreed with his recommendations. So for a very long time, entity institutions have spoken similarly. I beg you, you didn't give the essential answers, what you said is what we know, it's the administration, but what we don't know is what we asked you, and that's what you don't want to talk about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21272	Predrag Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21273	Here's a lot of things being said, how not to say, how not to repeat. About the importance of the list, I will not talk about the importance of publishing the results of the list because many have said much about it. I'm absolutely convinced that everyone was completely honest about it. It is questionable that I have carefully, given the seriousness of the subject, read this information that we have received here, which is not from the Council of Ministers, we have heard, because it is questionable that such a decision be taken by the Director of the Statistics Agency. Carefully reading this, I am fully convinced that the decision in that sense is perfectly legal. Indeed, Article 20. The list law states that this unique methodology is determined by the Agency, and Article 8. The statistical law says the same thing. And Article 9. The Statistics Act says this – the Director represents the Agency and acts on its behalf, organises and secures legal and effective implementation of tasks, adopts regulations, when it is authorised under the applicable laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and adopts other acts, in accordance with its powers, and takes other measures under the Agency's authority to exercise the mandate of the Agency. It is very clear that the Director of the Agency had not only the authority but also the obligation to make such a decision, such a regulation. I would have, everyone would have been far happier if that decision had been made in one consensus, if it hadn't been for that divergence that's being discussed in this information. Was that possible? In the Information, we saw that the level of divergence was increasing, not reducing how the deadline for publication of the census results was nearing its end. And as we have reached out many times in this country so far, so to speak, for the mediation of the international community through this whole process of executing the list and publishing the results of the list. I'd say the happy environment is here, unlike some other mediations that have been from different servants, to express myself here, perhaps inappropriately, international politicians, that this was, I think, a professional mediation. And that's kind of important to say. He would also be far happier if the BiH prosecutor's office hadn't interfered with this job. It's scandalous that the D.A. was involved in this business, not only the Agency's director, but some other people in this business have been having some discussions with the D.A. And it's not the first time the D.A.'s office has done it on different grounds, we've had the D.A.'s report here today, so we voted on it, so here's how we voted on it, look later at what we said about the prosecution's business and this. That interference of the prosecution in this business is, at the very least, just as scandalous as political interference in this business. Is the decision professionally good, is it in that way in accordance with all the provisions of the List Act I can say it very hard by reading these materials, because we have heard that here we have extremely professional terms, prodigalistics, definitiveistics. I've tried to get into what it means in this context, and in some ways I have, I haven't. Although only the name of these methods of probabilistism and determinations says – except that they are highly professional, they are extremely inaccurate, but I did enter the 18th question, essentially question number 40 because I was directly interested in it because my child studied outside of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I will not, for example, show my child plastically what question number 40 means, but I will say that on the question of my friend who lives 10 km from the border with Croatia, not far from Grud, there are two children and children from the area by difolt in high school going to Imotski, to the Faculty in Split. And so are two children of this friend of mine, the older one who studies in Split, the best man himself. If we consistently apply question number 40, those two children are non-residents. I will not go to those drastic examples of Sweden – non-Swedish, but the most people concerned or children concerned with question number 40 is in Croatia in 18.192 and cannot accept that these people are non-residents, these children that they are non-residents. And that's why we need to talk about it and talk about it. The conclusions proposed here, so I'm afraid that at least one of these conclusions or one set of these conclusions is a little bit in colluding with Article 17. The statistical law that says – when implementing the Staff Programme, the Institute will not receive or seek instructions from other states..., in fact Article 20. The Statistics Act – when realising the Agency’s staff and entity institutions programme will not seek or receive instructions from authorities, other state bodies, this is of course also relevant to the Prosecutor’s Office, political parties. We talked about the prosecution's pressure, and we can only speculate whether it had a crucial impact on someone's decision. We can speculate, one man knows it, and I trust him completely when he says he doesn't have a crucial decision, that this decision has been made under the pressure of a deadline. That important deadline, because it's too important to me, and I trust all of us that the results of the list and the list, so to speak, do not fail and get these results because of the importance of the list. Without intending to, uh, suggest a lock, aware of the weight of the problem, aware of the open problem, I just wanted to say these few things so that we don't go here with the ambiguities, especially about the legality of this whole process and process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21274	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21275	I thank the chairman. I have to do what I said one more time, because apparently, dear colleague Kožul didn't understand. Article 9. The Statistics Act states that the Director of the Agency is in charge of the work of the Statistics Agency and our College is in charge of the work of this Parliament, but that does not mean that the three can make decisions. Article 5 The Statistics Act is said – The Agency, within the meaning of this Act, is the Agency established by the Council of Ministers Decision, published in the “Official Messenger” 16/98. And that decision clearly states that the Head of the Agency is the Management Board, which makes all decisions by consensus. So the director for making such a decision had to have the consent of his two members. Otherwise, it would be as if Mr Bosić had now said, today Parliament has put Mr Jukić's decision out of force, signed the act. Is that legal and okay? Of course not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21276	Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21277	...the chairman. Therefore, my observation also refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Kožul, who said he felt that the director had acted in accordance with the Census Act. However, it must be said that this is about the law, therefore, about statistics, which was necessary to apply in this regard. But there is one more symptomatic question that has caused a strong political crisis with inconceivable negative consequences, so that Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter what, is 25 years after this last '91 census. Which is never then, nor has it been officially verified in the Parament of BiH, we are now putting ourselves in a difficult situation. I can understand that in a certain situation some decisions have been made without the consent of the entity statistical institutions. Another very significant piece of information should not be forgotten, I believe most MPs know, and the directors of the entity statistical institutions were heard in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, but look at what coincidences, almost three months before this. So, in any way, to interpret any motive to hear any of the responsible persons in the prosecution institutions, they are in the position of pressure and when the best talks are, they are without a doubt in the function of pressure. Normally, it's best known to those people who are being interrogated. And it is interesting that this decision is acceptable to IMO international observers without it being acceptable to the BiH Statistics Agency. It's disturbing and very worrying information for me. If a unique methodology has been adopted which would be compatible with the most modern methods and principles of EUROSTAT, the least we had to expect there is that we have the agreement of the Director and his deputies. It's disturbing for me, and I'm not inclined to believe it's a better solution if we didn't get to this. It is also disturbing to note that, therefore, it was not acted in accordance with the agreement of the BiH presidency, the chairman and deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the House of Representatives. As much as I think it is, it's extraordinary, so it was one step that would be a significant step forward, that the final date of publication would be 30.12 this year, and that these 4 or 6 unconformed issues would be the subject of an agreement and I don't think it would be the end of it all, but it would have been said everything to get the data. This is what we come in 15.06. That's 16 or 18. In 06, when this data is published, until the publication of the Unique Methodology, says we will have 01.07. data, because I don't know which ones are qualified. I believe that this has brought untold damage to BiH, that this is a return and a strong construction and deepening of mistrust, rather than reaching constructive solutions. Certainly respecting all the expertise of the people who deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21278	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the presentation of colleagues of Kožul. I would like to say that everything that some colleagues are trying to do more to present here an argument that would defend the decision taken by the Director of the Statistics Agency, in fact, that argument that they represent is beginning to be in their case counter-argumentation, that is to say that we from the SNSD are also from Republika Srpska that the decision is illegal and is not based on the law on which it was meant to be. So, you said everyone, we'd all be happy if this decision could be made by consensus, but it's not. So do you really think that good and quality decisions are not based on 20 consensus or at least a close consensus in this country? What do you think if it were to be held in the next month by a group of Republika Srpska MPs who would vote with the Bošnjak in this House for amendments to the law, the electoral law to hold elections in Mostar City and renegotiate you from HDZ? What do you think if that happened, do you think it would be a long-term decision that would be good and good for this society? We at SNSD say it wouldn't be, but here you obviously think that decisions that aren't based on consensus are sustainable in this society. You said we heard the D.A. got involved in the process of making this decision. Worse. So, do you think it's a sustainable decision to make under the prosecution's pressure? And many today's arguments have been made here where it has been said and confirmed that the prosecution has been directly involved in making this decision. So these are those counter-arguments that, your arguments become counter-arguments in your case. And in the end, you said that children from Imotski in the ranks of the Croatian people are going to go and school in Croatia and that according to these principles, these children would now become non-residents in BiH. So is it possible that these children who are educated in Croatia never come to Imotski or to the town they leave? Do not convince us and do not put us in a position to convince us of what is unsustainable in this society. And it is unsustainable to claim that it is an unnecessary consensus, that no agreement is needed in this country and that it is possible to make decisions that are under the prosecution's pressure under that, under this, and that it is all sustainable. So, those who think that today's debate will end in this way, certainly not, and what the predecessors have said, all that's being said today, it's just saying, it's going to only deepen the crisis, and at the beginning of this one, maybe some have acted harmlessly and the decision that should have been made will really become a big reason for the crisis in this country, and you, Mr. Jukić, have to be aware of this situation and you have to be responsible for it. It was more honorable that you retreated under pressure, if you couldn't stand them, than this crisis is expanding and it's making even bigger scales than it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21280	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21281	I'm not going back here to different decisions over the past few years that have been made in this way and in that way, this and those hands to the harm of this or that, because it's unproductive, it's giving birth, and there were all kinds of them. Just one little geographical clarification, so we're clear on question number 40. So Imotski in Croatia, a child from Gruda who went to Bosnia and Herzegovina for four hours to go to school in Imotski, went back home, kept cows, then slept in Gruda, but with the consistent application of question number 40 would be a non-resident. And it's impossible to accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21282	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21283	But I don't know if these are corrections, repairs, repairs, or just an explanation anymore. A man doesn't really know anymore. But here's how, to relax this atmosphere a little bit, I'm very interested in it, given that, at the same time, they hung out together, every night, the son of Milorad Dodik and my son, at the time of the census, studied together in Milan, together. On one occasion, this one at the second university and the census says that they are currently students and that they are resident, that they live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I wonder whether they'll be residents or non-residents. So I said the son of Milorad Dodik and here, and I, my son, shared every night together, went out. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21284	The debate of Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered for the debate, but I'm going to use a little bit of what it says today during Mr. Backović's session to replicate a little bit. Mrs. Marković, so
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21286	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21287	It wouldn't be the first time we've been voted by you or the high representative, so we've already Googled it, so it doesn't mean anything to us anymore. Well, we're not giving you anything back as much as we should, but I mean, don't now, let me talk, and then we'll talk about it. The other thing, therefore, Mrs. Pandurević, I think you don't seriously think that the work of Parliament and one agency is, therefore, the same thing and decision-making. It is not the same, it is not a comparison at all at the place of work of the College of Parliament and I do not know the Director and Deputy Director of an executive agency. But I didn't get up to put any more problems in it now, so obviously, different contexts are being observed by this information, or this situation, this decision by Mr. Jukić, so Mr. Bosić said what he said about the prosecution, and we saw today how you thought about it, so you supported the report. Well, that's how it went, I don't know, I don't know, and you voted us and Mostar around the street at... today you showed us again what it looks like. Also, it's only in Mostar's problem, but I'm not going to talk about it again. Anyway, I liked Mr. Nikola Špirić's idea. So, you all said today that it's an extremely important topic, that it can get us into something that's not okay, which won't be good in our future work. We have the conclusions you suggested. Now I as a representative, so, and I don't know most of us or one part of us, thinks whether these conclusions are in accordance with the Law and on statistics and on the list. Perhaps his proposal is not bad, that the College in the extended composition should consider until the next session, therefore, both these conclusions and others that will appear today, and that the Parlamenmt shows what we can legally declare, without touching the provisions of the list, statistics, etc. And so that we don't leave new challenges ahead of us, so that we don't deepen the crisis and say it ourselves, so don't let us end this today. I don't know. He's out. He's not here. So maybe today, as we interpret it in different ways, some people say it's illegal, it's not respected, others think it's totally legal, the director himself said what he said. So it seems to me that the only possible way, and so is the 27th session. So, the College could, in an extended composition of this conclusion and others, take its stand and propose to the House what we can actually plead without being against the law, or that we do not make conclusions or any proposals that are not in accordance with the law. So, I might suggest such a conclusion and if we could stop today, we've heard a lot of it, if there's more need to call Mr. Jukić, to answer some of these questions that have fallen in the meantime, I don't mind, but let's keep going, so we don't make sure it's legal, is it legal. Now, I don't know, so there are three conclusions here in this set, I'm not sure if they're in accordance with the law, that I can plead as a representative, that we order him to withdraw the decision, or if I don't know if I give the Council of Ministers? At the end of 22, this is neither the Council of Ministers' information, and it was with them, and it is also required that the Council of Ministers be made manifest. So, let me think, we still have time, it's not that now, if it's such an important topic and we have to come up with a decision today, then you're going to have to let it all be thought about anyway. So it's simply impossible to plead like this, no matter what we read the Information. Mr. Špirić suggested well, I agree. Here I am prepared to formulate that conclusion, so that the College in the extended composition until the next session, consider all the conclusions proposed today, so if you want and discuss and suggest what we can plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21288	Just this one, question – you suggest we interrupt the session, so that it continues sometime later is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21289	I'm proposing a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21290	This is a special session, this isn't
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21291	Well, I suggest the conclusion as I suggest, that we finish the session with it, and that what the conclusion is, let's consider it at a regular session of the 27th that we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21292	Well, that's different, which means they pull the plug and put themselves on a regular session. But that's up to the motion to decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21293	So here's what I suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21294	Now we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21295	That's what Mr. Špirić suggested. That's how I understood him.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21296	And, uh, second thing, I have to tell you, you're wrong about the vote. Look how the vote was,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21297	Well, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21298	So the correction of the wrong quote is from the scene. 23 Borislav Bojić, for the Prosecution of Voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21299	The Honorable Chairman. So, look at the result of the vote and you'll see that you're wrong, you'll see when you take the contents of the second round of voting, you'll see that you're wrong, but it doesn't matter now, it's important that this question really, the importance of this issue has been heard several times here and I don't want to repeat what my colleagues have said about the importance of this issue. And I definitely think that the issue of consensus on this issue that has now become an important political issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina is something that we all need in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All of you who remain silent and will not speak wait for this debate to be over and the conclusions to be reached, this problem will not escape from Bosnia and Herzegovina will remain here for us and we will have a problem, all of us. Don't think only those who talk about this problem today will have a problem. I assure you we'll all have a problem if we won't get the result we wanted. And I join those who invite Mr. Jukić to first and foremost the decision made in the way he did, which in his content is not legal, to withdraw and find a solution. I don't want to talk about expertise, but I don't doubt his deputies are also professional enough to say everything they said. I have here and part of the views of his deputies who, therefore, are completely contrary to what Mr. Jukić did. So it's perfectly logical what I've heard here and I don't want to repeat it. And what I can notice, as a non-professional, when it comes to Article 2 of the Honorable colleague Kožul, in Article 2, is in this way, when it comes to the usual place of residence, which you were talking about here today, is the place where the person lives and usually spends his daily vacation, that he usually spends his daily vacation, is not unusual but usually spends his daily vacation, regardless of the absence spent for the purposes of recreation, rest, visitation of friends and relatives, work, the school you were talking about, exactly decadently stands schools, treatment or religious pilgrimage. So, it's all clearly defined by this Law, so this example of yours, of course, I don't take it as my right to speak as an expert because I'm not an expert, but from this I'm concluding that the question of schooling is something that is completely clear and decadently defined by this very regulation. So, there's a lot of political stories here, it's definitely present and I call on everyone present to look for a solution. If this decision is made by any kind of vote, including this Agency, and anywhere else, believe it is not luck for the future of us living in this country, the way it is, and in this country only decisions taken by consensus have a perspective. The decisions that will be made the way Mr. Jukić did will certainly not contribute to a better atmosphere in BiH, I am fully convinced and I am obliged to say this because of the importance of this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21300	Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21301	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome my colleagues and colleagues and members of the Council of Ministers. In fact, I think the subject of the census, or decision taken unilaterally by the director, has been the top theme of the past 30 days in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There were different qualifications. What the SNSD demanded was that in Parliament, we openly discuss the issues with the power of the arguments, the fact, respecting and articulating all the views of the institutions involved in the process, so 24 of us asked for an emergency session. We asked for the Council of Ministers' position. Today, we are informed that the Council of Ministers could not be given the position of the Council of Ministers and today we have no formal information from the Council of Ministers on the decision taken by the Director. And that's a fact, that's about how the Council of Minsitarians works, about a big question for this country. So the Council of Ministers couldn't make a decision, couldn't make a statement, couldn't make his position on the decision made by the Director, that's clear enough that we're in trouble. We also have a situation where the director in his presentation says that he asked the Council of Ministers for a solution, that the Council of Ministers did not want to put that item on the agenda, and then you were left alone, so I figured you out. And it affected you to make your own decision. And why didn't you share that decision with your colleagues? Why did you not share this Decision, or the motion for a decision and with the people involved in the process, in accordance with the Law? And the question remains virtually open, did the prosecution ask you to do something like that and what are the ultimate goals? Respecting, of course, the different opinions of people coming from the Agency itself who are participating in management. We don't have enough attitude, these people write us a letter and say they disagree, and your reaction is important. Gentlemen, don't sit in the Agency either, resign unless your director respects you. Let's open the matter to the end of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers shall appoint the Directors and Deputy Directors. I fear there is no readiness, we are deeply aware that without the role of everyone in this House, as well as the Council of Ministers, from the order of the Bosniak and Croatian people, no decision can be made. But let's stop the problem now, so we don't suffer the problem later when such census results are published. So what do we do? So what do we do? I do not understand you, Mr. Director, that on the basis of all the arguments you have heard, in the end and from your first associates, you do not withdraw the decision. We suggest you withdraw the decision, it's best for all the citizens of this country, for all the peoples of this country. And we'll understand that reckless moment, and what do we have like this? Will you allow this situation to develop? What will then be the consequences, what will continue to be the consequences for.../sound warning for the MPs/.. So I believe that these conclusions, which Mrs. Majkić and part of the conclusion that Mrs. Pandurević suggested, have articulated our views on this matter and I really want to warn you that it would be very useful and very smart to take this as a good intention, to get out of this now, not to develop a problem in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21302	Correction of the wrong quote, Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21303	Thank you very much. The respect of my colleague and my colleagues, I didn't mean to answer, but here we are being nucleared by our colleagues and by our little colleagues and called. And of course I don't want any letters, let alone the word in a rough way, Bog forbid, I don't want to cause any replicas or further discussions. I like the story of compromises and agreements on either side to come. But are they sincere, from the heart, from the heart, from the human and from the neighboring? So if they are, here I ask all of us, how many laws have been laid down in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska by voting over the Bošnjak and Hrvat? Is there anyone here who can name it? Are those dozens and hundreds of laws, decisions and conclusions? Is that the will of Bošnjak and Hrvat? Is that the will to compromise and the agreement? I'm afraid not. So we have to go from ourselves to where we're doing power, and we're showing this thing as a revote, it's just not true. Why is it that unilaterally those who exercise power in Republika Srpska, this is how many years, with children of Bosniak nationality, write the language of the Bosniak people in booklets? Is that the will of the Bosniak people? Is that what you respect the 25th will of the Bosniak people, colleagues and colleagues of Srbin, so you put it in the books for the children, and then you come here and tell us – so we're in favour of a deal and we're in favour of compromise. So show him. And we beg you, don't do it, why do it, don't do it. No, where you have power, power, you spend. When we fight terrorism, arrest 32 men for no reason, declare them terrorists, and here a year goes by, who was in charge? It's nobody. And imagine each and every one of us, how that would be, and how we'd feel if we were declared a terrorist and called television and the picture showed up and then nothing. We're talking about good intentions. Let's think about the representation of Bosniak and Croatian peoples and others in the RS according to the '91 census, we have a valid '91 census. How many Bošnjak and Hrvat we have in parliaments and municipal councils/sound warning for MPs/... today, as much as in legislative, as in executive, as in judicial authority, as in public enterprises, in public institutions and institutions etc.? Of course, someone will say the same questions, and in the Federation, and in the Brcko District, etc. Let's take a look in the mirror and see how honest we are and then tell nice stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21304	Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21305	If you listened carefully, I didn't talk about voting. I was talking about political attitudes. I will tell you that the institutions of Republika Srpska function in accordance with the Constitution of Republika Srpska. Please, you know well that there are mechanisms for protecting the national interests of the people, you know well that there is a Council of People, that there is a Constitutional Court of Republika Srpska. Perhaps all the legal solutions are not at will, but what is quite clear is that the Constitution of Republika Srpska is respected from the aspect of the law that you were talking about. On how institutions function, I would like to remind you that there is also a constitutional category on the number and parity of representation both Bošnjak and Hrvat in the institutions of Republika Srpska. Don't say it's not like that. When you mention a certain type of arrest, I have absolutely no ambition to trade with you in that sense, so probably arrest warrants are given by judicial institutions elected by the VSTS, not only by Srbin in courts and prosecutors. And let's not talk about any other things that are present here in Parliament and further complicate the situation, to run away from the topic that is on the agenda. That's what you were talking about, and I want to remind you in college, it's not today's agenda. And I don't see the need at all, if you want to make any further complications, that we're giving some kind of attitudes that will insult us here to each other, say so. We're ready for that, too, but I don't think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21306	Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21307	I think we should stop this, because I'm undermining again, that there was no need at all to discuss this, unfortunately, we made a mistake last time and we opened this story that's trying to turn into some tape and in some period that's in front of us all the time to talk about it. He took a lot and said Mr. Rančić when it comes to the desire for consensus, said Mr. Bojić. And I'll repeat what Mr. Rančić said. Isn't it a shame, isn't it a shame from the government of Republika Srpska, to impose and abuse children of Bosniak nationality? 26
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21308	I have to warn you, I didn't, I let these two debaters go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21309	Wait a minute, I just...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21310	past the subject, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21311	We were talking about consensus and that this country needs a consensus.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21312	No, and that's past the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21313	Do you think, just a little bit,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21314	So, go back to the subject of the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21315	If you think there's gonna be a problem, then make it a problem. So there'll be a problem with the Bosniak language, so let's make it a problem. Do you think, because you think there's a problem in this one?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21316	Oh, please, I don't think, I'm running a session with a theme that's one thing, and you're saying other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21317	You've been threatening us with some problem all along. Well, let's make it a problem. So do you think you can banish a million people to kill and that
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21318	I'm warning you that you're out of the subject, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21319	I didn't go out...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21320	Go back to the topic
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21321	I didn't come out, because the problem is 27.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21322	I take your word. In accordance with its powers,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21323	And why is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21324	I warned you three times.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21325	And why is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21326	to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21327	I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21328	You did not accept
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21329	I'm talking about the subject, Mr. Bosić. I'm talking about the subject. I'm talking about the subject, I'm talking about the essence, and the point is that it came up more than the Bošnjak were planning in Republika Srpska, that's the point. And you want those Bošnjak in Republika Srpska to be gone. And you know it, and you know it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21330	But now I warn you to insult and it's not true, it's no one...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21331	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21332	You're insulting me. I'm taking your word from you now.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21333	That's right, take away my word, you didn't thank me Bog you took away... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21334	Denis Bećirović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21335	Mr. Chairman, as well as other colleagues and colleagues, I made it very clear to you all 15 days ago in which one unprepared session could be born. It's worse than I said it would be. There's a SDP club. I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21336	A 15-minute break. Please take your seats to continue our work. Mr. Backović needs to get started. The next reported, non-compliance with the established agenda, Mrs. Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21338	Thank you very much. I just want to ask you to help me discover two ambiguities, actually get an answer to what's the agenda point today – Information Council of Ministers. The materials show that the Council of Ministers has become familiar with the Information, we have no position. We've been talking about the list for two hours now and we've been out of the agenda for so long and so far. I am interested, my colleague Ahmetović's word has been taken away, and I would like him to explain to us the Honorable Chairman why, since it was a language issue, the name of the language in Republika Srpska. The question of the language name or the language spoken by the users, residents, citizens of Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation was also what language you speak. So it was a question, and it's an integral part, if we can already design it so wide, I don't know why it comes out of these frames. The bigger question to me is that the Council of Ministers was not determined according to this, but that we received from the Agency the most direct material.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21339	Well, you see, I'm asking, or I'm going to ask for a stenogram of this, otherwise that course of the session to be clear, and about not keeping the agenda, so the question of language was not asked here in the context of the language issue on the list, but was set up in the story of what children teach in schools and what is listed in their books. So, the whole thing, you're right in one part, this whole debate we're running without information from the Council of Ministers, and the point is called the Council of Ministers' Information, but it's clear what the essence of the problem is, and I've used my business right to take away the word of an MP who doesn't accept warnings to return to the agenda point. There, that's all. The next Hazim Rančić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21340	Thank you very much. So, just for a little while, last time I spoke, I didn't want to mention anyone by name or say my correction or discussion or speech refers to both that and that. I spoke to all of us, both in the majority and in the words of a respected colleague and colleagues from Republika Srpska, etc. A respected colleague replicated arguing that the Constitution in Republika Srpska is being respected. I'm responsible for not respecting all those things I've counted. But here, I don't want to argue any further. Here, unfortunately, there are no colleagues here, I don't know if there are any children, thank Bog there are any if there are, and if there are no, my question for him is, in respect of respecting the Constitution - what does the Serbian language or the Serbian language say to his children, and what does it say to a Bosniak child? So much for applying and respecting equality in respect of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21341	Here, I didn't want to interrupt, it's the same story again, so it's the same subject again. I keep asking to go back to this topic. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21342	First of all, I have to say, it's a good thing that the SDP colleagues were looking for this break to cool Ahmetović the head a little bit and calm down the passion of the one who's trying to scare someone here, and that's what he's been complaining about, and while I'm discussing saying if there's going to be a crisis, so be it. Here, the SNSD thinks there shouldn't be a crisis. And why I came forward, so as to correct the wrong allegation, let me say that here today some discussions are trying in a weekly and diabolical way to implicate Republika Srpska MPs that it is allegedly us who have introduced the method of voting in Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision, whether in this institution or in another, which is not true. It's not true, Mr. Rančić, that we voted you in some laws, we just used the right that the Constitution gave us an entity vote, just like you at the SDA Club used it when it suits you. So, what I'm saying is, the SNSD has submitted a proposal for conclusions and our conclusions are heading towards including the Council of Ministers in this problem, because this is a major and difficult problem for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this problem will not be resolved without their participation. And the second thing, SNSD, our Club suggests, is that we are asked to meet up with a solution to this problem that would provide a long-term and quality, quality answer to the problem we have today. If someone thinks this should not be supported, then perhaps some advocate what Sadik Ahemtović thinks. And he obviously has a '91 script now. and '92. when Srbin were voted in the referendum, what happened afterwards. But I believe that up to that, that everyone will rationally think about what they are...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21343	Please come back...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21344	If you could talk about student books and language, I could talk about Sadik Ahmetović's discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21345	I know, but I warned them, and here's what I'm warning you, Mrs. Marković, that we should get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21346	Which has greatly offended many here in the Hall so much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21347	Zaim Backović, Mr Backović, this is your third correction so you don't have... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21348	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21349	That's how you pressed it. Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21350	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21351	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21352	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21353	Come on, Zaim Backović. Mr. Backović here have managed to pass you by this technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21354	When I don't put this on then all I see is that arrow and press what's one of those three. So I have the right to be a dead end, which is, for years, they've done their part.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21355	Okay, Mr. Backović, you have to tell us which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21356	I'm referring to the Codex.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21357	And the Codex,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21358	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21359	Injury of the Codex?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21360	No, no, I have a reason to tell you this. I would ask you, honestly, as a man, to ask that in rhetoric this will have inconceivable consequences, this can lead to anything, this can produce anything, if you don't allow it. You yourself know the consequences only that rhetoric can cause. And here I am telling you, read the comments after such rhetoric as those who are 31 outside this room react. That rhetoric is a rhetoric of intimidation, which I don't know, myself or others. But it's not rhetoric that leads to real calming and finding a solution, that rhetoric leads to it being on the bow, and you would know what that means. And this rhetoric doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21361	Are you talking about my rhetoric?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21362	No, no, I'm telling you to stop such rhetoric.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21363	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21364	That's what you're right about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21365	We understand what you're saying, you're right. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, non-compliance with the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21366	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21367	...Mr. Mešić for the sake of it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21368	Respecting indeed your position and your mandate and everything else, but the fact is that lately, I even think that you are doing it unconsciously, and unconsciously because you absolutely do not listen while MPs and MPs speak, or talk to each other, or you are imagined, or something, because lately you have been noticing how you take someone's word when it suits you, while other colleagues and colleagues don't even remind you. So, you took Ahmetović your word from your colleagues because you thought it was going in the wrong direction, Mrs. Milica Marković absolutely wouldn't take away the word until the first, second, or third lines warned off the microphone that you should do something about it. And according to that, you take away the word and you say it's not in line with the agenda or the topic, and you won't accept the fact that it's on the list, we should have spoken what language we speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21369	Here you are now speaking past the established...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21370	Here's the list -- the list, here's the list -- the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21371	You see, all this stuff you've been saying has nothing to do with your application for non-compliance with the agenda. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21372	I don't have a chance to distract you that you allow some colleagues and colleagues to talk, while you take away others' words as you do now. I have written down how many colleagues overstep time to speak, a minute, a minute and a half, while the others break up in five seconds. And I've got it written down, because I'm just running statistics to show it to you. That's one thing. Another thing we should have said on the list in which language we speak, which will say that some people are safe in Republika Srpska, certainly in some cantons, where cantons also translate to Croatian say that it is not Bosnian, but is Bosniak. And now according to that, if we have spoken, some of us, that we speak Bosnian, no one will consider it, but will continue to write that these people are speaking Bosniak language out there somewhere. Now that's a list and that's it, and you're saying it's off topic. That's exactly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21373	Mirsad Mešić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to attack you just trying to correct Mrs. Marković, for a stenogram. We didn't ask for a break because of Mr. Sadiković.It's because of the situation in this House, and we were going to calm the situation down a little bit, and I think we've done it a little bit. So we asked for a break because of the total atmosphere in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21375	Thank you. Amir Fazlić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21376	Here, the chairman, this leads to some calming tone of the session and we are going back to our current course, but as chairman of the SDA Club, I express a protest according to the way you took away your colleague Ahmetović's word. And you wouldn't have responded immediately if you hadn't taken the word right after that to a fellow member of the Milica who said here a series of her grades on behalf of Sadik Ahmetović, who is not there, and who has reported today that he will otherwise be absent from the session from a certain time. I ask you to conduct the session correctly, you know it, you have a political experience and you can do it. Please take, what is said, the bat in your hands and hold a session as the Rules of Procedure determines and allows you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21377	Okay. I just need to remind you that I warned MP Ahmetović three times to return to the agenda point, and that I also warned Mrs Milica Marković, who had stopped after that. So there's no point here in defending each other or attacking each other, I'm trying to run this session towards the Rules of Procedure. No more reports. 33 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21381	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21382	Well, it doesn't matter. So, the first conclusion of the SNSD Club, Dušanka Majkić, is an MP. Should I read the conclusions? You don't have to. Please state in the conclusion package. 11 for, against 20, abstentions 7. There is no general majority, the conclusion has not passed. Second vote on the conclusion of Aleksandra Pandurević. Ten for, 19 against, nine abstentions. There is no general majority, the conclusion has not passed. We also have Mr. Lovrinović's conclusions. Please prepare yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21383	He's giving up, he's giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21384	Did the gentleman give up? 34
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21385	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-15-0.u21386	He's giving up. So this is where we end the emergency session. But please remain in place, the extended College has agreed to open immediately, based on 15 signatures of MPs, a new emergency session with only one item of the agenda – voting on the tv service, charge fees, which is in the second reading due to the request for an emergency session. So, in order not to call an emergency session, we agreed to finish it right now, open a session and hold a vote. Session completed at 6:35 p.m.
