ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13933	Please take your seats, let's take a session. I am opening the 32nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. (technical disturbances) Sit down and let's hear what's going on with the anthem problem. (technical disturbances)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13936	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13937	Who's here?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13938	Damir Arnaut...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13939	Damir Arnaut has arrived. According to the Service, 37 MPs attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for changing the agenda, things are like this. The agenda has been downloaded: point 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television System – Proposer: MPs Amir Fazlić and Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1417/16, since 13.05.2016. (second reading), in accordance with the request of the Commission for Transport and Communications. Point 8. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – submiter: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01,02-37-2 1581/16, from 01.06.2016, in accordance with the request of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Point 9. Information on the state of emigration – applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights, Act No: 01,02-42-1590/16, from 02.06.2016, in accordance with the request of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. There's no record of a hearing. I find that the 32nd session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 31st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1361/16, from 09.05.2016 and 10.06.2016. (first reading), shortened procedure; 4. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-929/16, of 21.03.2016; 5. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – applicant: State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, Act No: 01,02-50-19-150/16, of 19.05.2016; 6. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2015 – applicant: Office for the Review of Appeal, Act No: 01,02-50-19-1676/16, of 13.06.2016; 7. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, Act No 01,02-04-1339/16, of 06/05/2016; 8. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31 March 12. 2015 - submiter: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01,02-16-1-1,587/16, of 02.06.2016; 9. Information on missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Opinion on the ICMP initiative on the takeover of competence by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers - applicant: Council of Ministers, Act No: 03/6-40-1314/16, since 01.06.2016; 10. Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Basic and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the national group of subjects and on the study of the mother tongue throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, Act No: 01-02-1-179/16, of 12.01.2016; 11. Amendment to the Technical Assistance Funding Agreement for the Corridor 5c – BiH concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina, JP "Autoceste FBiH" d.o.o. Mostar and European Investment Bank, Act No 01,02-05-2-1628/16, of 08.06.2016; 12. Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border co-operation programme – Montenegro for 2014 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union, represented by the European Commission, act No 01,02-05-2-1677/16, of 13.06.2016; 13. Agreement on the financing of the state programme of activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014 between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the European Union, represented by the European Commission, act No 01.02-05-2-1678/16, of 13.06.2016; 3 14. Consideration of material with label, confidentially, act number: P – Pov – 07-03-10-9-12/16, since 16.05.2016. (Note: The material for this item of the agenda is, for confidentiality, available exclusively to the security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cannot be delivered. You can get an insight into the materials in office no. 215 (II. floor) every day from 9 to 17 hours.) Moving to the first point, [[Common discussion]] Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 31st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13942	I answered, I hope you won't turn off the microphone, this, since you went, you've been very expedient, the first thing that you've brought us here today is that we're almost discussing nothing, uh, with such a modest agenda in which there's nothing but one item of the agenda that doesn't look like what we asked for five MPs, and it's about violating human rights when it comes to Bosnian language in Republika Srpska, and I suggest to you, through this debate, that we first hold this urgent or special session, an emergency session, and then we continue working with this session, given the urgency and the problems we have today when it comes to children return to the Bošnjak in Republika Srpska. But I can see that you're not interested in it, that it's not a problem for you, that you don't know about this problem and we're sending these kids a very, very, very ugly message to their parents. Parliament, or Mr. Bosić called a session on the emergency list, had no arguments, no reason, brought these entity directors, and I think you should have called that session, you should have brought entity ministers of education or education and the minister of civil affairs and held an emergency session focusing on the execution of this Bosnian language for Bosniak returnees in Republika Srpska. There's probably trouble in the Federation, but without the minister and without quality information, I can't speak. So I'd like to ask the president of the SDA Club to request a 15-minute break so that we can agree first at the SDA Club whether this is important or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13943	So, the president of the club has the right to sue the break, and for your information, we have asked the Council of Ministers for information on this agenda point, with the agreement that we will put it under review at the next session. That information has not yet arrived, and this is why the agenda has been proposed. Here you go, Amir Fazlić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13944	Well, here's what I'm going to take the opportunity to say hello to all of you and to suit our member's request, and given the contents of the agenda, I'm going to request a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13945	It's a 20-minute break. Please proceed with the session. Senad Šepić...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13947	...the president of the club...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13948	The president of the club should say about the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13949	Well, here's the SDA's Club of MPs has held less consultations and we accept this agenda, but we want to underline that with point 10 on it we will have our own comment, and with point 10, it is not a substitute for the point we expect, it is an initiative of five MPs who speak, which speaks of violating the Bošnjak constitutional right to use Bosnian language in the Bosnian Serb entity. So we expect the Council of Ministers and the College to put this item on the agenda as soon as possible. Whether it's an emergency character session or one of the points means we're not arguing, but to get this information on the agenda as soon as possible. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13950	Okay, thank you. Just to inform you that we have instructed the Council of Ministers that the report you are asking to be discussed has not come from the Council of Ministers by now. I don't know there's no Civilian Minister there eventually to give you some more accurate information about what's going on with that report, and this point that's on the agenda today wasn't even meant to be any substitution. When the report comes from the Council of Ministers will be a point in front of this Parliament. I'd like to note that we've moved to point one on the record. Here, any comments on the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13951	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13952	Is it about the record or is it something else? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13953	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13954	It's a record. Here you go, Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13955	Well, so I volunteered to help out a little of this previous discussion. I was one of five people who signed a request to support this emergency session, something said about it now by our club president, and you, the chairman, mentioned it, you asked for information from the Council of Ministers. This problem is three years old and you're telling us that after 10 days there's still no response from the Council of Ministers that we've appointed, let's say, to one state that the whole state has information, the whole region, not to say beyond, and we can't get one piece of information that we're reading about today. I don't know why you have, Deputy Chairman, the need to, uh, sufflage, let me finish...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13956	Well, you see, it's really not the point of the agenda, it's not the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13957	And let me just finish you off this part is about the agenda and...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13958	Come on, if you can finish the sentence, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13959	The one we have, what's-his-name, the one in the state. I was a signator because I really wanted to settle this urgently so we could put this thing aside and try to turn to what things are like in this country. Is it obvious that many people are not interested and that's why.../the ambassador is warned/...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13960	So, I warned you it wasn't in the agenda, we've given enough explanations, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13961	Chairman, I was just about to...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13962	I don't want any kind of conflict here. Please allow the session to be held according to the adopted agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13963	Come on, you're heading towards the adopted agenda, do something... 6
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13964	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13965	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. Maybe my destiny as a previous colleague Šepić the Pawics, I just wanted to draw attention...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13966	And isn't your discussion about the record?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13967	Yes, it is, about the record... the only question is how are you going to figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13968	Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13969	Do you remember, apropo Records my discussion two or three months ago that I called for each month's Council of Ministers to report to this Parliament apropo adaptation to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Coordination Mechanism, the Reform Agenda...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13970	Mr. Špirić has nothing to do with the zapisnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13971	It's got, it's got...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13972	I must take away your word or return to the subject of the record or I will take away your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13973	I think it's a shame that the farming cooperatives have been abolished, I think we bring this Parliament to that, I'm sorry it can, I won't, I'm going to...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13974	Yes, yes, well, with this kind of behavior and destruction of Parliament's work, I agree with you that it is possible that such perception in public, but it is a warning to you here what an impression we leave in public. So, Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13975	I thank the chairman. 7 What is really worrying here is not what is said beyond the agenda, but what we had two MPs who literally told you that they wanted to discuss the record, and they knew the moment they said they didn't want to discuss the record. And I really think it's a shame for the chairman to say that he's going to be discussing himself on one subject, and then he gets up and discusses on another topic right away. And I don't know how to stop this, but I find it fascinating that two MPs stand up and tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13976	I'm closing point one. We're going to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure asked lawmakers: Senad Šepić asked the Council of Ministers two questions; Diana Zelenika asked the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH Highway; Denis Bećirović referred the initiative to the College of the House of Representatives; Hanka Vajzović asked the Council of Ministers. The following answers were delivered to today's session: to the questions of Denis Lovrinović, asked in writing at the 24th session, the answer delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH; to the initiatives of Senad Šepić, submitted at 25th, 27th and 29th session, and the question asked at the 27th session, the answers delivered by the Council of Ministers; to the question of Šemsudin Bojić-Mehmedović, asked in written form at the 27th session, the answer delivered by Ministers' Council; to the question of Nikola Špirić, asked in written form at the 28th session; to the questions of Mirsad Đonlagić, asked in written form at the 29th and 31st session, answered the Minister's question of the Hanka's responseVajzović to the question addressed by Mr Pancurević, the Minister for the 29th meeting; to the reply to the questions addressed by Mr. Who wants to comment on the answers received? Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13978	I thank the chairman, and I warmly welcome everyone. First of all, I would like to settle for Mr. Justice Minister. which, after four months, provided me with an answer to the asked question in writing, however, I am not satisfied with the answer excessively, in fact, because this answer showed all the tragicity of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that no law is respected, in particular the Office for 8 Veterinary Administration of BiH, where the Minister himself states in his reply that no systemisation regulation has been delivered, or to my question – why the inspectors of the veterinary profession in the BiH Veterinary Office are not able to carry out veterinary inspection, the answer is that the Systemisation Regulation and, at the request of the Ministry itself, has never been laid down, or delivered to, an insight. What does that mean? This means that the Law on Administration is not respected, nor is the Veterinary Law respected. So, accordingly, I ask Mr. Minister to, in accordance with this response delivered to his services or to read this Veterinary Act in BiH in person, where Article 3(3) says - veterinary license. So, in our own term, we're dealing with a veterinary license, and the vets at the BiH Veterinary Office don't have a veterinary license. This means that these veterinarians should probably have a ID card to go into some business entities or business entities and that with their own ID card, whether they are monitoring, which is nonsensical. The Administration Act also mentions the veterinary license to exercise control, i.e. in response here is said to be done by entities, entities and the Brcko District, which is exactly by jurisdiction, but that does not mean that at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina veterinarians do not need to have a licence. Also under the Systematisation Regulation, which is in some preparation, is contrary to Article 83(3) where no veterinary licence is mentioned in the systematisation as well. In line with this answer, which is superficial and which has shown all this tragicity, I will look back at the next session with another additional parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13979	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13980	Thank you, Mr. Presiding. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome all present here. So it's true that I asked the question, but not just BHRT. I'll remind you that I got the answer you can imagine first of RTRS, now I've got BHRT, I've been waiting since Federal Television so I can comment completely, and my question was, so how did they implement the provisions of the law that spoke about editing and broadcasting programs in official languages? So sometimes someone told them, at least what I got so far, and I probably hope until the next session and from federal television, and then I'm going to totally comment on it, sometimes someone told them that they're public TV services, and so they can answer me just to say they have a show, they have 10 seconds of that, 15 seconds of that, an hour of that, you know, we followed that and that event. I ask them – how did you implement the Law on Editing and Broadcasting Programs in official languages, that doesn't mean a minute, a second in that program that you do, or someone told you that you are public TV services and that you can do it any way you want. But here, when I get the full answer, I'm going to try to fully comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13981	Thank you. Šemsudin Mehmedović. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13982	Thank you. Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. At the previous session, I asked a question, I received an oral answer from the Minister of Transport and Communications with which I was not satisfied, but here I also received a written text of answers with which I am particularly dissatisfied, because imagine, and my question, to remind you, was related to the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge by the Republic of Croatia, without having brought the technical question of the dimensions of the bridge with Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Republic of Croatia. But what I came forward for is, it says – regarding the point indicated, it was concluded that the construction of the bridge, including the mainland-Peljesac bridge, should be a matter of profession and no policy. This is obviously the political position of the Republic of Croatia that, that is, the issue of the profession is not politics. Why? Because the Republic of Croatia considers this construction, i.e. the Peljeska Sea is considered by the internal territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because nobody in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina has ever asked a question about these things. But if this bridge doesn't have technical conditions to sail beneath it in two-way traffic by large overseas ships, then it's the closure of Bosnia and Herzegovina to access the open sea for all time. That is why this is also the issue, and the political issue, because this is a matter of establishing borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. I'm surprised that both our Presidency and the Foreign Office are silent about all this stuff. Here, the Ministry of Transport and Communications requested information from the Republic of Croatia regarding the technical conditions of building the bridge and that is the only positive reality in all of this. I therefore expect the Council of Ministers to inform us on this issue, because this is a key issue for the future, and here is the issue of business in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13983	Thank you. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13984	Madam Chairman, I didn't hear if I was, did you say in your comments that I had received an answer to the asked question. If I did, I'd comment accordingly. I got a written answer, but you didn't read that I'm on the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13985	I read that you got the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13986	Okay, thank you very much. So, at the 27th session, on the 28th session of April, I asked the question – why is the Public Competition for the Election and Appointing of the BiH Postage Agency Council published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", issue: 73/15, since 15/09/2015, only in the language of the Bosniak people and only in the Latin letter when all three languages and both letters are equal? Accordingly, at the 60th session, held on 14 June 2016, the Council of Ministers identified the following response. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, on the basis of the conclusion of the 10th session of the Council of Ministers of BiH, held on 10 June 2015, announced Advert for the election of members of the BiH Post Traffic Council in "The Official Messenger of BiH", adjective No 73/15. 10 Advert said the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH rules in accordance with the Law on Ministerial Names, the appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments of Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger", No 70/03. And they are now quoting a member of the Law, "Article 8 of the Law stipulates that advertising for vacant positions must necessarily be published in at least "the Official Messenger of BiH" and "the Official Messenger of the Brcko District of BiH", and at least in one daily list of any circulation in Bosnia and Herzegovina". Advocacy for the selection of members of the Postage Traffic Agency's Council was published in "The Served Messenger of BiH", "The Official Messenger of Brcko District", and three daily lists of "Ppress of Republika Srpska", "Dnevni list" and "Dnevni Avaz". And what is most tragic about me in this response is the final part where the Council of Ministers is told that it is not in this article of the Law that requires equality of language and letter, that is, the Law on Ministerial Names, and they say – given that it is an ad, not a law or a sublaw act, it was not the need to publish it in the languages of three constitutive peoples and two letters, but was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", an advertising part in the Serbian language and the Latin letter, so in a section exclusively intended for advertisements whose publication requires certain monetary costs. The above shows that there was no violation of the provisions of the BiH Administration Act. So the equality of the letter is subject to the savings of the Council of Ministers, it's called equality. That's why it's no wonder people were looking for a break. If the Council of Ministers, which is the executive body, which is obliged to publish in three letters,... three letters and a language does not publish in the "Official Messenger", that justice to savings, then what kind of country do we live in? The second thing, this produces consequences for the candidates and whoever sues this will get in court. And I'm really sorry that we're getting these answers, I'm not with them, I'm not happy with these answers, but I wanted to read what the Council of Ministers' Justice is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13987	You see, you've already read, three minutes have passed. Hanka Vajzović, and two minutes are scheduled answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13988	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13989	So is there a business intervention here? In the context of comments?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13990	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13991	Well, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13992	Dear Mr. Chairman, this is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and... and Mr. Špirić is persistently trying to deny everything the Constitution provides for, the Constitution of BiH. Mr. 11 Špiriću, don't mention it, you are the least invited to talk about equality and to seek equality of something. You just said that...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13993	Please, no comment, no, this is not a business comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13994	I speak the language, our language is called Bosnian.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13995	No, I agree, but you see you have no right, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13996	I have the right to say that my language is called Bosnian, not Bosniak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13997	Well, I know, but you have no right to comment on the MP's comment that he received...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13998	I expect you, as chairman, to act, to warn Mr Špirić about the name of a people's language.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u13999	Please, I must take it from you, no warning of comments, so anyone in the comment can state their position. So, it's not... I guess you know there's no discussion planned on the comments. You reported a business intervention, and it was not a business intervention, it was an obvious answer to what Mr. Špirić was now saying. Please follow the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, agenda and way of functioning of this Assembly. I don't know what's going on here, which has increased this tension in Parliament, in the House of Representatives. I ask you to comply with the Rules of Procedure, with the respect of each other, that's how we treat each other. Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14000	I had one of the questions to the Council of Ministers about education and support for people from the so-called "Secrets". Third lifetime. So I asked – what do we have in particular in the country about it and what are we planning to do? I got an answer that we didn't have anything, but I didn't get an answer on what was planned to do. And I'm just asking now to complete the answer, because we're not specific, we don't see where we're going when it comes to the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14001	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14002	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. I've got answers to two of my questions. One question was the education of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, individually to tell me who was, what funds were spent and what are the effects, and on what legal solution did these funds for education use? I've got some answers. With what I've received, I'm satisfied with that, but with what I haven't received in this response, I'm not satisfied, because here I am now being instructed by the 75 agencies to look for that information, and I have addressed the Council of Ministers to give me the Council of Ministers to answer this question. And I would ask, if possible, for the Council of Ministers to hold back and pay attention to my question, and to give me an answer entirely to the question of how I asked it. As for the second question, which relates to the recovery of damage to recent floods, which were there about two years ago, I received one really detailed answer from which certain problems are seen, but that the problems, as I would say, are being kept under probation and that these problems will be solved as they come. So with this second answer, I'm satisfied, with this first one I'm not. I would pray if it can be insisted that this response be the first to be put up for education, although I find education to be extremely important and significant, but it must be transparent and in the function of the jobs being done and why people and schools are being trained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14003	Thank you. I have to apologize to Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, this is a technical mistake because he jumped a comment past the reporting order, so you came to an end. I'm sorry, but it's a technical problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14004	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all who follow the work of today's session. My question was from the area of security. We all know we don't need to prove how important it is and how much it really is in our terms, how many problems we have of that kind. The issue of border security is certainly a first-rate issue for every country, and what I wanted to hear from the Council of Ministers was about the Doljani border crossing. Whoever was heading south could see that the Republic of Croatia was building a new transition, we have an agreement with them on joint these points, the crossings, the question was – whether the agreement was broken unilaterally or unilaterally. They said they didn't know, they didn't actually get any information, and they probably didn't cross the border to see that it was in a remote phase, so it's working very intensively at that border crossing. The gap between the current and the one in Metkovic, which is being built, is 1,800m. Our space is more than a mile away, that space, I asked – will it be covered in security? About, of course, I'm not satisfied with the answer, because I'm about to be told that here's the part they don't know about, and for this second part, I'm about to be answered again on the question of maintaining a satisfactory level of border security, they said, who would be pleased now, that they're not really sure that it can be done, so it's a matter of carrying out security at that border, a correct exercise of cross-border traffic control. I've been described as having problems, and this third one will be referred to in three months on Gabel. So there's certainly 13 big problems here, not to mention the Maljevac where it's constantly falling systems and that citizens have a really big problem, and here as a security issue the state certainly needs to draw attention to all of us and those who take care of it. And the indirect tax administration no one knows anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14005	Thank you very much. This concludes the agenda point – comments on the answers received to the parliamentary questions. Let me just say that the Rules of Procedure for Parliament's Affairs leaves two minutes. The comment is not limited to time, but it is defined as saying whether or not the representative is satisfied with the answer and should not, according to the College, be longer than the time provided for asking questions. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1361/16, from 09.05.2016 and 10.06.2016 (first reading), shortened procedure The proposer submitted a bill requiring consideration under a shortened procedure, as it complies with the EU's legal legacy. On 12.05.2016, the legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions which found that it did not fully comply with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. The Council of Ministers delivered the draft law in accordance with the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector on 10.06.2016. The College of the House of Representatives referred the draft law to the procedure under a shortened legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 134. Rules of Procedure. The Joint Defence and Security Commission delivered its opinion on 23.06.2016. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At today's session, the Constitutional Commission established the consistency of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. You've got the materials. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. Moving to the point of the four agenda, that's Ad. 4. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-929/16, since 21/03/2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14008	Good afternoon and a warm welcome to all. Here's a little something that might look back on that amendment. You have already said enough that the session was held this morning, and here as chairman of the Joint Committee if colleagues have not arrived to read, to say that in Article 2(2) of the Law proposal, and in relation to Article 78(2) of the Administrative Procedure Act, the word “indictee” is replaced by “person”. The Joint Committee unanimously reached an agreement on the same text of the Amendments and Supplements Act and proposed to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to adopt this Report and adopt the same text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure with an amendment adopted in the House of Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14009	Thank you very much. Since no one's answered their word, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the five-day agenda of today's session, which is, uh, Ad. 5. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – applicant: State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, Act No: 01,02-50-19-150/16, of 19.05.2016 At the 31st session held on 23.05.2016, the House College appointed the Joint Defence and Security Commission as responsible for considering the Report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 13 June 2016. The Commission adopted the Report. The report was removed from the agenda last session of the House due to the inability to attend the submission of the Report to the House. I'm opening a debate. Is the Reporter here? The director's here, so we have a representative of the Agency. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We're going to the six-day point, that's Ad. Six. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2015 – applicant: Office for the Review of Appeals, Act No: 01,02-50-19-1676/16, from 13.06.2016. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14012	Thank you very much. The Honorable College, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I, uh, right to tell you, have seen here for the first time since I've seen in this House, or in some report, that all the members are signing the vote. And then I was interested in what it took for the report to have contributed that certain members of the Board of Appeal voted, so those who didn't sign that report wrote statements about why they didn't sign the report, and we got all that with this report. And of course, when you get something like that, you're interested in what people signed it for, or what's wrong with it if it has to be done, or if people sign it. And if I don't go in a lot now, I don't really want to open up any questions, I'm going to do it through parliamentary issues, I think I'm going to give more effect than to discuss it today, but among other things, I've come to the conclusion that everyone who works, and especially those who work in regional offices, are not equal with those who work here in Sarajevo, so Sarajevo thinks that the bosses in the regions, etc., etc. And now that I'm not opening a series of questions that I'm going to open and I'm announcing that I'm going to open up in the next period, but I have to say that there are a lot of bigger problems here that will not be solved by the Commission's conclusion. These problems are solved in a completely different way. I hope that in a further period, especially through these issues, we will succeed in ensuring that the Council of Ministers pays a little more attention to the functioning of this institution so that the consequences of this will not be suffered by those who most often and suffer, and these are those whose complaints are being considered, or those who participate in the procurement process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14013	Thank you. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14014	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had this item on the agenda every year – Considering the Office's work on the examination of complaints, and I remember that a few years ago we even had a memo from the director at the time, it seems to me that Pilav called, who asked to use the annual vacation or to recognize him 16 paid vacations for the reasons that many of the items there were buried, etc. And we, of course, refused it here, even more and more unseriously approached the problem because the number of cases from year to year was piling up. We didn't allow more people to be hired. And in the last term, it seems to me that we have passed amendments to the laws that form offices in Mostar and Banja Luka. Now here I see from the conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget is looking for additional funding, in one of the conclusions, to increase the number of employees there. What's that supposed to mean? We have already increased the number of employees because we have formed two new offices and still need additional funds to be employed year by year by an increasing number of people in the administration. I think it's an unacceptable approach. Something there seems to be happening again in that Board of Appeal, because it's obvious that, in fact, the corrupt activities of certain bosses, the contractual authorities, as they're professionally called, are the result and the product of this situation in the complaint offices, because the team is also formed these two offices. You remember that we are revoted here in Parliament for that very reason. That is why I believe that these conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission should be accepted with the reserve for the very reasons I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14015	Thank you. I don't see anyone applying for a discussion anymore. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the seven-day agenda, that's Ad. Seven. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, Act No 01,02-04-1339/16, from 06/05/2016 At the 30th session of the House, of 10 May 2016, as competent to discuss information, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH has appointed. Information was downloaded from the agenda of last meeting of the House at the request of the competent Commission. The Commission submitted its opinion on 23.06.2016. The Commission has unanimously taken the information into account. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14017	Thank you very much. I can't believe there aren't any more reports. So the question of security, we have the Security Information, we've been looking at it at the Defence and Security Commission and there's been discussions, and I think it's a real pain in both our society today and in other environments. What I would say about the Information is that it is a good framework for discussion, but it seems not well organized in the sense that some of them have been mistaken, so it's all glued here, given by various agencies, that's what I've been saying to the Commission, we've had a practical report, especially from the Foreign Office. Instead of assessing the security situation, we had a report on how much who did what, how much is the percentage more or less compared to another period. What has drawn attention to me in particular is on page 14 of the subtitle - the entry of citizens of high-risk countries, and I don't see that anyone in particular, so I miss, in this Information I miss some analysts, because it's the only way we can get from professionals the whole 17 situation. So it happens that in measuring this entry, coming out of these high-risk migration environments, areas where they come from, there's a number of 15 thousand, here says, 367 people who have entered the country, actually who, who have entered and have not come out, have obviously been bound by visas, visas because they are from these areas, especially here Avganistan is mentioned, etc. There is no statement on this, and we have, therefore, no text, and we have really many of those who deal with these issues and those in the Ministry of Security, Asylum and Migration, we have the Service for Foreigners and the like. It's repeating itself here, and I'm talking about this information, and I think we should get a different text, and that we should have a serious debate here since it's not at all, not at all, a good state of mind about it. At all levels, of course, I know to whom what belongs, what canton will do, what this one will do, but also at the state level we know as well. There's not much further information that we should have learned here, and we've been waiting a long time for some of the events that would be enlightened here, so the information is kind of lame in that regard, but the work report is given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14018	Thank you. Mr. Saša Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14019	Thank you. I welcome you, both my colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Very briefly, I need to draw attention to the fact that two or three months ago we spoke about meeting the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning cybercrime. Then we talked about a convention whose signatories, one of them, probably among the first countries after this convention was made, which we ratified ten years ago and where we didn't go far. So here we had the Ministry of Security, or SIPA's view that it was the biggest security threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we all quoted it from the document we got. We also had the conclusion that the Council of Ministers, within a deadline that has already expired, will say what has been done on the implementation of the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina under this Convention and what are the laws that we need to change, or what are the laws that we need to adopt in particular. I use this opportunity to point out to the Council of Ministers that this is an obligation which is not respected in relation to Parliament's conclusion, and if this is already the biggest security threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I think it is necessary to take more seriously the obligations that are primarily international, which arise from the convention itself, and then Parliament's conclusions on this matter. The report that we are considering today and through this report unfortunately cannot be seen what is, what are the problems in this area and what is what the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is doing to resolve them, of course respecting the jurisdiction of all levels of government. The second topic that, in my opinion, has not been properly processed in this report is hate speech and its consequences. You know that especially in countries that are full members of the Council of Europe, the subject of hate speech and the obligation of states on this matter is that they are significant, that recently we are here, and thanks again to all colleagues and colleagues, we also adopted the Declaration of the House of Representatives on the condemnation of hate speech, but in this area, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as all other states of the Council of Europe, has significant obligations. And what every citizen can see is that it doesn't seem much in this matter. We have not, although announced, come to consider, let's say, amendments to the Criminal Law where hate speech on the Internet will be specified, crimes also all others. But here in the debates we ourselves were the ones who said that from this hall and from similar 18 halls of parliaments throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina quite often messages are sent that leave on the ground and what consequences. And here we are, we have taken our step, but the Council of Ministers and executive powers, therefore, still have a lot to do. I have based, therefore, on these two topics, the implementation of international obligations on cyber crime and security and hate speech and on these two topics that are particularly important to me, and in terms of security, I am not satisfied with how they are processed in this material. In order not to be, of course, critical here has very good and useful information. I think our security agencies finally have to call on certain activities and when they're being criticized, so to say, here's what you can see that we've made a step in some areas. But these two areas, which, I say again, are valid for me, and that's what the Ministry of Security said was, I repeat, the biggest security threat, unfortunately nothing was done to praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14020	Thank you. The word has Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14021	Thank you. So, let me start from the end as I thought, so Mr. Magazinović spoke well of this hate speech, but I hope by the conclusions of various things that we are... that we will have on this topic in a more serious debate. I think that along with those allegations and in this report that destabilise the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, one very, very important element that contributes to this, but here may be another occasion we talk about the hate speech, not only through these reports, but in the adoption of legal solutions, and then we will also give examples of how it is done and what it is done and how it is created by a neural situation, perhaps even where it is not needed at all. But first of all, it's a felony to me. The second thing I wanted to say here, so I, of course, read the report and okay, is what happened in 2015 and which are the most important segments, but I miss it, so as my colleague Magazinović said, not that it's some criticism, but I lack the information that happened with the attack on the commander of the BiH Armed Forces Staff. I think that if it isn't qualified as a terrorist act, it's kind of ridiculous and inadmissible that we don't have that information in 2015 as long as it's been done and what it is and how it is, therefore, imagine one, so let me say, an organized country in which the commander of the Army has been attacked, so in order to respond and what would be asked for answers, I'd like something of this to be found here. Although it may be hidden in the individual data, which is similar to terrorism, it is not seen from it, and I think the Commander of the Staff is a function and a person to whom special attention should be paid and ultimately shed light on what actually happened at the time. And somehow it's hiding somewhere like it's trying to forget that a person did it all the way from the state service. Well, I hope you get an answer to that. And secondly, here is a lot of space dedicated to terrorism, the fight against terrorism, although this is, of course, a 2015 report, and of course, maybe more of this is directed to the prosecution from which I keep looking for answers about some of the acts that happened in Central Bosnia, it seems to me that it's always good for me to consider the one-year situation in this area of terror to connect to 19 what happened and somehow get out, so to say, it's always rooted from something that happened before that. First of all, I'm thinking about events that took place in Central Bosnia in '98. The years when both officers and returnees were killed, and I don't think these events should be forgotten. Of course, they cannot be listed in the 2015 Report, but parallels can be made not only with these events, but also with others as well as in the area of terrorism or other serious crime, so they can give some answers and some answers should be provided. I have no doubt that perhaps the security agencies have it, but therefore and only that, that fact is already being told to me, so I can say, almost a year away from the prosecution to give me an answer to this question, until as far as the investigation of these events has arrived, and it seems to me that such types of information always bends relevant reports and doesn't perhaps give me a real picture if they don't connect to something that happened before, and... the consequences with the heavy acts that I have cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14022	Thank you. Mr. Fehim Škaljić, he has a word, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14023	I welcome the members of the College, gentlemen of Ministers Bevanda and Mektić, to the presence on behalf of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the other present. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, an important topic of topic and content with a lot of valuable data. I see it as information that needs to say what is the security of the country, its institutions, the property of citizens and businesses and how we co-operate with others. We have this lot of things that are still ahead of us and in relation to what is happening in the environment and in relation to what is the degree to which we have evolved so that we can warn all the negative consequences that are present. Sometimes in the need to solve a lot of things, we escape into the dimension of solving the most large ones, and then we forget that we are responsible for both the individual and his position and the security. We can't be happy and say it's okay to steal about 1,000 cars in Sarajevo annually. What is the safety of citizens in a city that is open to the metropolis, where many people with trust come in if 1,000 cars are stolen? And that trend is being maintained. What is our position here in Parliament when we take a position on such an important subject? We are not here, ladies and gentlemen, to receive knowledge or knowledge, but to produce acts that are useful to the country, its structure and its citizens. And always, not just about this topic, about any topic which is on the agenda of this Parliament whenever there is this capacity of determination that you take to knowledge in me something is rebelling. What does that mean? How am I supposed to vote on something I've learned? Well, I'm not a fool, when I got the text, then I met him, and that's what I'm supposed to vote on. About these things that are security, not only institutions dealing with the security segment, but all segments of government to municipalities and citizens must be entities of the security system and contribute to its construction. Did we put this on August of events that would lead us to this level and how much of our stuff is still out of control? There has been a significant improvement in the dimension... of the aspect, significant things have been built that we haven't had, but we have to be completely open here to say, the system isn't completely tied up and it doesn't work at that level to the citizen, if the citizen isn't a subject of security. I, in the middle of my life, haven't seen a foot patrol of police for the last 10 years, going through the neighborhood where I live, which was common in some period, and bringing certain trust to the citizens and establishing certain contacts. We've agreed to that, and so have we in parliaments, to ask that only the professional part works for all of us... segments of security. It certainly cannot be effective in a way that meets all our needs. The professional part is the one who does the jobs, plans and suggests 20 of us to arrange the things that are ahead of us. But there's a complete need for all of us to get involved in this. That is why I oppose Parliament's view of such important things. We need to encourage professional structures to do their job and we need to train them to do it, and by the relationship we received to knowledge we're actually saying it doesn't interest us. And that's not good. That's why I'm discussing this, and I support these things that are being done and that contribute to the promotion. I would like to say, in that sense, that it would be good if we had periodic information in the areas of the security segment, not all of them in one chamber, because it's a very dysfunctional area, there are things that should be discussed, discussed and specialized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14024	Thank you. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14025	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief, since we had this discussion on the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. Namely, this is quite a good information that is abundant in good data that can be drawn from a lot of conclusions, but I suggest that a more realistic and comprehensive and comprehensive picture of the security of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is made in the sense that we and you as a ministry are responsible for. Namely, the key response to be sought in the Security Information is whether in 2015 we are safer than in 2014 or whether the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are safer for a year, so later. As this data says, we wouldn't say much, but we have even some indication that we have a reduction in crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially when it comes to intoxicating drugs, which according to media reports doesn't stand, but here I want to believe that these data are correct. I want to say that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in fact, we have these internal security challenges that may not be counted here by these 14 that you have counted. I think we should have a slightly different approach when it comes to radical groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which seem to me to be growing more and more in Bosnia and Herzegovina and which may be the key cause of instability when it comes to feeling the security of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to mention that some are called traditional, some religious, radical, etc. No matter what we call them, it's obvious that we have a problem with it and that we have to deal with it. Then criminal policy, it seems to me, that we have an increasing number of returnees in committing crimes and that this is the consequence of criminal policy when it comes to the criminal law of BiH and this Parliament and the whole bh society should be dealt with because it is one of the elements that can directly affect the sense of security of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The next thing you know is respecting the law at all by law enforcement agencies. We have, here are the witnesses that we have very frequent cases of non-compliance by the agencies, we have even more and more situations that some of the head agencies participate in non-compliance, i.e. violation of legal provisions. Imagine these constant incidents around the Vlasenica and, I don't know, in some other municipalities where those who should provide the safety of citizens, especially those most sensitive categories, are returnees, that they participate in creating incidents, and even in causing incidents with undetectable consequences. 21 Next, the presence of foreign security structures on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. Are we serious enough to approach this problem? We obviously have this problem some official, some off-the-book. Those who are officially, means it is easier to identify them, easier to make an action plan for the possible suppression of their actions, but we also have those who are unofficially in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is very difficult to identify them. Then the staff problem in law enforcement agencies. We are witnessing that many, many, particularly authorised persons with fake diplomas that are very easy to get, here I will be free to say in neighbouring countries. Such personnel, such personnel potentials cannot meet the security challenges that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is obvious that it is only a motive for hiring people in the administration, or what they say about the budget, and that we today are the consequences of it and how we all suffer in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then, do we have that phenomenon, and it seems to me that, by what information I have, do we have a phenomenon that, that it's institutional, it's connected to the underworld, or criminal groups of people. It is obvious that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have such a problem and that this can also have consequences for the sense of citizens' security. Because you know we can have statistics whatever we want, but the sense of security is the individual feeling of every single person in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that I'm not talking about the security of institutions, etc., but it's very important how every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina feels. As long as we don't ensure that the Bošnjak in Vlasenica, Srebrenica, Banja Luka doesn't feel uncomfortable or, I don't know, a man of Serbian nationality in Sarajevo until then can't say that we have achieved our goal. We do not, therefore, have a sense of security in every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina as any man living in this country should have. That's why I say the key question is, are we safer today than the year before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14026	Thank you. MP Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14027	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will first say to the Minister of Security that I welcome the fact that a very good thing was done in 2015 when you adopted the Action Plan against Human Trade, which will apply to Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2015 and 2016-2019 respectively. I would not agree with the argument and with your final conclusion that this will be a final document for this area for a simple reason because, according to the European Commission's 2015 Progress Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, a repeated attitude has been made clear from year to year, which is repeated by the European Commission, that Bosnia and Herzegovina must make a strategy to combat human trafficking. So I think that, because probably in your absence, you will consider this a top document, which I think is well done, I think it would be good in the interest of the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina to do the strategy that the European Commission is looking for, especially taking into account what will really represent the crown of your excellent activities in the field of trafficking of people who are recognised and beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina at excellent results and at the rate of reducing human trafficking when Bosnia and Herzegovina is a transit area or focus area marked. I, therefore, am speaking to you 22 in this section of congratulations and I support your efforts, but I ask that a strategy be made to combat human trafficking. The other day, as members of the Human Rights Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we were in Brussels, we attended a major international conference, we discussed, me and my esteemed colleagues, and we made a promise that Bosnia and Herzegovina would make the document required by the European Commission and, of course, we praised your work results in this field and we were proud that we could say something good about Bosnia and Herzegovina. And especially in the segment when you are now very critical of the visas of our European pathway. I would only ask, distinguished ministers, not to raise any doubt about the truthfulness of the data written here, yesterday in the media and the day before yesterday we could see that the reports say that news articles and electronic media are said to be a very large increase in the use of opiates, drugs, and the report says that the decline in drug use is the opposite. Now I'm saying, of course I'm going to believe your Ministry's report, but I don't know how the media got that information. And here in the report it says that those who use drugs, especially rebirth, are connected via internet networks, Facebook and other applications,...and others. So I ask you, not only in the drug segment, but also in the segment of drug use, but also in several segments, to mention once again cyber crime, my distinguished colleague Magazinović spoke about it, and the representatives who remember our discussions from the beginning of this mandate, and my discussions when I was a delegate in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the last term, I have submitted a number of times to the initiative that the definition of cyber crime and child pornography is finally included in domestic legislation, to be incorporated into the criminal law of BiH and the criminal laws of the entities and to be harmonised. I ask you to be, to endure truly in this field, for I know that you do it personally, and also your Ministry to make great efforts in segmenting it. So I would like in the next report, which I hope will be even better, not to have a sentence saying that you are aware of the fact that it is indeed Internet crime, cyber crime represents a great monster of the modern era and that we are being tried with it, but that we do not have trained officers for it. I am quite sure that, at your request, the leadership of the Council of Ministers will clearly determine if it is necessary to educate additional officers who, who will raise the level of Internet awareness, who will be able to prevent this type of crime from being committed, including cyber crime, and child pornography, and drug use, including human trafficking. I ask you to also refer such a request to the Council of Ministers or if we can lobby towards the EU institutions and as representatives when we participate in conferences outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. We, therefore, here I am personally and all my colleagues, demonstrate our willingness to lobby for Bosnia and Herzegovina to finally create miles that will be safe for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I ask you to step up your efforts to protect the children of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the context of violence against children, especially sexual violence. I think the good initiative that took place in Republika Srpska is something that I've been talking about for years with a few of my distinguished colleagues, Mr. Prodanović and Mr. Genjac, and we've talked more than once about the need to finally announce in Bosnia and Herzegovina who the paedophiles are, publicly register them, and I think that violence against children really is on the rise in Bosnia and Herzegovina, even if statistics don't make it so. To try to prevent the increase of peer violence, especially violence against the powerless and the weak, and these are our children. I think they're the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we need to create miles of safe life for them. I personally, therefore, am giving you support both to you and your Report, but I ask you to make further efforts to create a safe mile for Bosnia and Herzegovina's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14028	Thank you. 23 Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14029	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, Mr. Mehmedović is gone, in fact he asked me to supplement what he left out, he listed some spaces and some phenomena that make certain people in some space feel insecure. So, I would ask the Ministry of Security to do a little better, more closely and in future work to promote the work of the Agency for Foreign Affairs. Namely, I have information of some kind or should call it part of the information, that in Central Bosnia somewhere in 2012, in 2013, a few hundred Turkish citizens were enrolled on the basis of certified, so they actually carried out the equivalent of nostricting a degree here in Sarajevo which is the original jurisdiction of the county. So in 2013, if I'm not mistaken, a couple of hundred were annulled by the Central Bosnia Ministry, and they were at the same time in 2013 or '14. these students who thus acquire the right to stay in the country have made a kind of riot and unrest down Bosnia and Herzegovina, in central Bosnia. As far as I know one part of these issues is resolved, but I would like to draw attention to the following reports in such a way of staying, and survival, and movement through Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, as far as I'm aware, even the Federal Ministry of Education and Culture has given these nostifications which could not have been passed by law through an agency here in Sarajevo, but here's just a complete complement of what he said that one part of the Central Bosnia citizens felt insecure about it, because they were even this physically very violent person, even as far as I heard the information, their parents were coming when it was all unsettled, so the re-nostified diploma was requested by the minister at the time, he had personal threats, but now here's for another occasion and only one supplement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14030	Thank you. Mrs. Vajzović, you've already had one discussion and you have no right to another, only to apply for the correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14031	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14032	Come on, please. Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14033	I was inspired by my colleague Škaljić's discussion, and I wanted to join in this, so that we should not lead to such important issues under the knowledge of some information. I think we all agree, here's a rhetorical question, if there's anything more important for the state and the people than the security issue. In this regard, my criticism was, for example, of this information, which shows how much it is done, I don't know 179 information about the collected, and let me just read on page 14, somehow, I was running out of time, where it says that there is a significant increase in the transition of the citizens of Avgnaistan and Iraq, based on the above data, is a clear need, says, to take adequate measures and actions to determine the reasons for the existence of recorded differences. It's minus 220, one terrible trend and instead of offering us this, not to need an analysis of it, but to offer us, not to say it stands, it was also mentioned here stealing 24 vehicles, that someone is edifying why the Federation has 1,208 in 2014, 1,097 in 2015, and in the RS MUP 143 and 172, one drastic difference. What's going on? Why is that? I think so much that it takes different citizens and the public to get an impression of whether we're sure, whether we're more than the past period or not, what it is, and not how much it's done to us, not how much it's done. It's not a report. It's an assessment of the state of security. I appeal that, of course, it's not the Ministry's reach, it's all gathered and it's being placed, but it should, I think it's an extremely important issue and it should be on the agenda, not as information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14034	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We're going to point eight, Ad. 8. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2015 - submitr: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01.02-16-1-1-1587/16, of 02.06.2016 At the 32nd session, held on 14.06.2016, the House College appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider. The Commission delivered its opinion on 24.06.2016. The Commission has accepted the information. I'm opening a debate. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14036	I thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry there's no finance minister, I just needed one piece of information - where he got this information about the state of the public debt. That's why I'm asking. Because here I now have the information that was in the National Assembly of the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska and in relation to this Information this Information, let's say the public debt according to this Information is a billion times larger than that presented there by Zoran Tegeltija. I just want to determine whether the Republika Srpska Finance Minister has deceived MPs in the National Assembly, because, watch out, a billion is not a small amount. In the Information Ministry of Finance in Republika Srpska's National Assembly, Republika Srpska's external debt is said to be a billion lower at the end of last year than in this Information Ministry of Finance. And I would therefore ask if possible, if the minister only comes to provide us with information on who his source is.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14037	Thank you. Is there anyone from... _________(?) 25 [[no microphone turned on]] We hear from the Council of Ministers someone can give information. Come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14039	Well, here, I'm taking the opportunity to say hello. I am Zakira Muratović, assistant minister at the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and I was one of the authors of the information you are talking about, so I will tell you how this Information is being prepared. Therefore, the State of Public Obligation Information is prepared on the basis of data kept in the finance and vault database when it comes to external debt, meaning the debt by which, this means, Bosnia and Herzegovina's liability bearer, based on data from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Data relating to direct entity debt are data that we get from entities like data on internal debt that we get from entities, and that sum is actually a state of duty. Since it is preliminary data, uh, I can't argue now what colleagues in Republika Srpska have given in their data, but the state of duty of some billion is really, uh, I can't believe that this is some amount now. It may be in some, I don't know, factor or some mistake or not, but this data that we have here is the data that we're standing behind. These are the data that we show every year and these are the agreed loans minus the paid-offs, actually the debt balance that shows the contractual loans that have been withdrawn, minus the principals paid-off. And that's what debt is all about. When it comes to the new debt and the old debt, there's only Parisian, London Club and something old debt that's, uh, that's been reprogrammed. So I don't know my colleagues there now how the data was displayed, but when we get together, there's some difference, but these differences aren't that high. I mean the difference that we know and that we recognize between the ministries when we're agreeing is actually about differences in allocation of some loans in percentages that are allocated, that they're not, but it's just a billion. Here, we'll check it out so we can tell you later what it's about, whether it's a technical mistake or if it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14040	Okay. Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14041	Thank you very much. Well, I don't really know how my colleague Pandurević got this frustration. Namely, I think there's been a mistake in the digitron.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14042	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14043	Well, it's not a correction, it's just a stenogram. So table 2.4. The Republika Srpska government's information, which was in the National Assembly, says Republika Srpska's public debt at the end of 2015 was 4.300,000, and this information here says it was 5,200,000. I'm sorry we don't have the Minister of Finance of Republika Srpska here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14044	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Information on the missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Opinion on the ICMP initiative on the takeover of competence by the Council of Ministers – submiter: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 03/6-04-1314/16, since 01.06.2016 The Joint Committee on Human Rights discussed and supported this information together with the Council of Ministers' conclusions and referred to the procedure further. I'm opening a debate. MP Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've come to say a few things about this information that has been delivered to us for the reason that I think this topic is about the search for missing persons, since this activity has started in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to this day, it also has an impact on many aspects of social life in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course on many flows in this society. In this regard, I must say in general, so as an MP, I am not satisfied, and I think that this is the position of the SNSD Club, we are not satisfied with the information provided, because the information says that this is information about missing persons and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on a specific, let me say, activity which, in my opinion, is secondary to what is the primary name of this information. What we least expected was that, in this information, that, to say, there are a lot of information and data, which would have been placed here, indeed, related to the current activities on this plan in relation to certain problems it is clearly having in the activities of the Institute for the Search for Missing Persons, and of course with the proposal, on their part, certain procedures and activities that the Council of Ministers and Parliamentary Assembly should also take to contribute to improving both the work and the activities and the results of the work of that Institute. Unfortunately here this is not the case, here is the case that from the information that was written on the 11 page 10 pages is given, I would say, is the information that could be called the problems in the management structure of the Missing Persons Institute. And about the actual activities and the results on the missing persons search plan you have, so let me not exaggerate, the incomplete one typed, printed page, so that's the end of page 6 and the first half of page 7, where they give some concrete indicators and data regarding previous activities. I think it is confusing and that this is unacceptable, especially for reasons, as I said at the beginning, which the results of this Institute's work should, therefore, give its concrete things and data to both this Parliament and the general public their positive contribution to some shifts in the movement of society in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is not the case, so here it is, the first 27-thirds of the information is written so that they introduce us to the fact that, I don't know, the Missing Persons Act was passed in 2004, that the Institute was established in 2008, as if the MPs here, so they weren't in the situation or they just couldn't imagine, so today until 2016, they couldn't get to know the fact, and we had several times on the agenda of various information about the Missing Persons Institute, that we couldn't get to know these elemental things, and then they were moving on to a big story and to work out what they had problems, how they started the process of establishing governance structures, what they did, what they didn't do, and most of all they couldn't do. And finally, of course, this is somewhere in the middle, so as a incomplete printing site, and finally it is again sought, or the Council of Ministers, on their behalf, requests that an agreement be reached, a change in the role of co-founders by the International Commission for Searching for Missing Persons. And of course, at this point, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and Human Rights is making it a priority, which I don't think absolutely this information can satisfy us. And here there is absolutely no real reflection and picture of what the Institute has done to date. Not to mention that we were expecting data, and we didn't get it in this information, except for the number you listed here, you said that, uh, until today, 18,249 missing persons items have been verified, somewhere it's mentioned in some paragraph that it's about 70% of all missing persons. So if you had difficulty in working, and we heard from the media that you did have difficulties and problems in work, if they were problems of financial nature, and even organisational,... that's what you should say here. So it's not a major problem in non-placing the results of what you've done and how much you've done to date. That, with the proposed amendments to the Agreement on the role of co-founder, whether the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board will be abolished, whether they will remain with the College of Directors or be the Director alone, that is not the point of this story. Not to mention that we were expecting, the SNSD Club expected you to say here, so which places in Bosnia and Herzegovina did you finish this job that you had information that there were mass graves of missing persons, that you were looking at certain locations, how many you found, what you found and what the point of it was. It's not here, except in a few digits, and of course the number of missing persons verified per year, from 2010 to '15. And I can now ask the question here, of course, these issues that are related to the Missing Persons Institute are very, I say, broad, wide spectrum and there are a lot of issues being raised about your work, and especially what the families of the missing in Republika Srpska are interested in, so what is the relationship on the national basis of the people you've been looking for and found and the ones you haven't found. Why, for example, according to the information we have in 2015, the Institute verified 656 missing persons, and of which, according to the information we have, only 30 people are Serbian nationalities, everything else remains. If we go from the fact, which is certainly true and true, that every mother, every family in the same way regrets and suffers for a missing member of her family who disappeared, say '90. '91. For years and 25 years, they still don't know where the face is, and they know it's gone somewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. This is a question addressed to you, so to the Institute, why for 25 years there is no information and information about the missing Srbin who have disappeared. Here for Sarajevo, for the Sarajevo area, information is moving that it is somewhere between 6,000 and 7,000 missing people of Serbian nationality that are not there and to this day is not known where they are. Not to mention some mass graves that haven't been touched yet, and the birds on the branch know that there are missing faces and that we need to dig up those mass graves and we need to find those faces and identify them. So there are a lot of questions that are being raised here. Apparently, this institute hasn't done a job with this information. The Institute is most important today whether there will be a Management and Supervisory Board or not, and what the Council of Ministers will do on this plan. And when you read the Information in general, this is a clear conclusion that the Institute of Missing Persons expects that today when Parliament adopts this Information, I suggest that it is not adopted, so when it adopts this Information to be a green light to make changes in the management structure of the Institute, and this is also the one that has been, which was probably these management structures and the Management Board and 28 Supervisory Board and Director, all of them have had some compensation, because this is the institution that is financed from the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so everyone had, uh, not to say, I will say modest, but they have had some compensation, the results are not satisfactory. So this information that we've been given here in materials is meant to do something else, which is to solve problems in the management structure, because here a lot of things that have been listed, the governance structure, the setting up of the fund, I don't know the third, the tenth, fifth things, a lot of things are said, at the end when it's elaborated, then it says we didn't do it and we haven't been able to do it. So the question arises which is at all the justification of the Institute's work to this day. But not to overcomplicate that story, so I'm focusing here on concrete results, what we expected from this information that we didn't get until today. And that's why I think it's unsatisfactory and it's inadmissible that on the 11 pages of the information you have an incomplete one-page missing person, the results made on that plan, that missing persons are found and identified. So that's the purpose of the Institute and that's the information we expect from this institution. That is not the case, and that is why I do not think this information deserves to get the green light from this Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14047	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14048	Thank you. So, in large part, I join Mrs. Milica Marković's discussion, only a few things I would like to say. Namely, I am not even sure whether the title is the point or the information itself, says – Information about missing persons. I think that's the information on the missing persons search process. But watch out for one thing, you have item four in this Information, says the lack of a Fund to help missing persons. How to help missing persons, what funds. I mean, a very ugly title, to me, like this. And on the other hand, I did expect this information from some other information, to say the essential problems. How can it happen that the 30th time goes out to the location of the search for Bugojan Hrvat and actually falsely testify? I asked the prosecution, the VSTV and other institutions, of course, and I didn't get, of course, the answer, how some witness or witnesses for the thirtyth time can manipulate the ICMP or the D.A.'s office that he knows where some are, and what is done when falsely testifying. On the other hand, so what happens to the people and events that we know existed, I can tell you about Central Bosnia, so I know. Bulls where people are missing, what's going on with it. What happens to other missing persons and what is done on this plan and what is the cooperation of this Institute with the prosecution, or security agencies. So that information really isn't there, it's really not there. So, this information, as Mrs Marković said, which 80% or 90% contain only the story of themselves, which is probably problems, but we don't have, therefore, how they titled it – what happens to missing persons. For years, they've been asking for information, they're gone, not from the D.A.'s office, not from them. And I hope that one day they get serious and start to really justify their name, so they're looking for missing persons regardless of their national background or any other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14049	Thank you. No more reports. 29 We move to the 10th point of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Basic and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on the study of the national group of subjects and on the study of the mother tongue in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, Act No: 01-02-1-179/16, of 12.01.2016. At its 25th session, held on 02.02.2016, the House College appointed the Constitutional Commission as responsible for the discussion. Following the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the Ministry of Civil Affairs delivered the updated information on 24.05.2016. The Commission submitted its opinion on 14 June 2016. The Commission adopted the Information. I'm opening a debate. It's Monika Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14051	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. I filed a parliamentary initiative about compulsory high school education sometime a few months ago. I have to admit, I haven't gotten that information by today. What I am interested in today, what I read in this report, in the Information, is that in certain cantons there are BHS languages. I have to admit, you may have heard it, but I've heard it for the first time, and I've read that information for the first time. I'm interested in who built the standards of this language, what is the curricula and the program in this language, who named it, how classes take place, and since I'm directly involved in higher education, I'm interested in what degree follows this and how these children continue to study later. I've heard for the first time, maybe I'm the only one who knows about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14052	Thank you. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14053	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would actually focus my attention on the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, or its conclusion. According to this conclusion, I have not read the Information, otherwise the Information dominates the absence of any problem in this regard, because everywhere the Constitution is respected, there are no problems, and the public is upset precisely because of the problem of disrespecting the BiH Constitution. And that, here, the Constitutional Commission, without any conclusion, without any direction in what we are actually proposing a solution, I apologize to my colleagues for being on the Constitutional Commission, but I don't see here that you've had a disagreement within the Commission itself, so is this possible that this is a unanimous conclusion that here we are getting to know and putting a point. I think we have a lot of problems in this area, but it's obvious that these problems aren't open. They're not open because in this written information there's actually no problem of disrespecting the Constitution. Therefore, the Komsija adopts information that is what it is, and 30 actually do not represent a real picture of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I'm feeling a little weird, so I'd like to hear, here are the representatives of the Constitutional Commission who adopted this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14054	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, I apologize, meanwhile, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil has applied for a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14055	I thank the chairman. This is the only option since I haven't heard that before this point you specified whether or not we have someone from the Ministry of Civil Affairs present today at this session that you could provide adequate information that will certainly appear today during the discussion. If we don't, I don't see any reason to talk to each other when we need that competent institution to give us the answers according to this information delivered. Well, I'd just like you to consider, as chairman, whether we have someone from the Department of Civil Affairs. Why the Civil Service? The minister of civil affairs holds the chair of the Conference of Education Ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. It's crucial today, because unless we have a minister of civil affairs, a deputy or someone in charge of education, I don't know if this is really necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14056	Yes, I agree with you. I don't see anyone here from the Department of Civil Affairs, but I see the head of all the ministries, so the chairman here, so I guess if there's any need, he can intervene. So Sadik Ahmetović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14057	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. This, I don't know, a few months ago, I've been looking for this kind of information so that we don't get into the situation that we're in today, and that's that over Bosniak children, I'm talking because I know, so this problem, it's an absolute discrimination and humiliation and humiliation and parents and children, and in the end I'd say it's also being done in Srebrenica, Bratunac, children who are indirect victims of genocide. This is for not believing what it says in this information, it says here that everything is fine. This is something I say, on page 6 of this information, the Ministry of Education and Culture of Republika Srpska, according to the Ministry of Education and Culture of Republika Srpska in Republika Srpska students are studying a national group of subjects: Bosnian language, history, religious sciences Islamic and Catholic. Bosnian language... from second to fifth, etc., etc. At the Kozarac elementary school in Kozarac, 326 pupils study Bosnian. So, I don't know if you have this or if they've given me this, uh, special one, since lately I've been talking a lot about, so I can't believe that someone's got the strength to lie this much. So either he is lying, or the minister, as the one from the Republika Srpska government is called, or these are not good copies of what was sent to them from Banja Luka. So either we knowingly deceive those we least need to deceive, who need to be told the truth, which are children. 31 I, therefore, am thinking again and asking to be held, when, behold, you have quality material and not lies, because this is a classic scam, to call an emergency session where entity ministers will attend and that this area until it is escalated we will take action. If someone thinks that 20 years after the war, they're going to break, they're going to hit the identity of a nation, especially the identity of genocide victims, they're wrong about not getting an answer. The answer can be anything. I call you to reason, to call a session, to call the ministers, and to resolve this issue. I don't say this on behalf of any party, and I speak for myself and, if I may say so, on behalf of those who have this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14058	Thank you. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14059	Well, I've come forward to correcting the wrong quote for this, let me say, the suggestive question of fellow Ahmetović who asked the question... of this material – who lies and who doesn't lie. So since the minister who wrote this Information, or whose ministry wrote this Information, from your party, Mr Ahmetović, I am responsible for telling you that the minister of education and the culture of Republika Srpska is certainly not lying. The information that came from Republika Srpska's government according to what it says in the Republika Srpska Constitution, which means the language of the Bosniak people. What will say is that, this dilemma of yours you're setting, obviously, could be interpreted here and discussed in the context of the minister who wrote this information and what brings you to the dilemma. But that's your problem and the problem of the SDA Club, that's not our problem. And I would like to ask the Kolegijum of this House that, in future, during such concessions that contain a connotation of certain threats as Mr Ahmetović put out here when he said the answers to such behaviour can be all sorts of, so now everyone will interpret, those who are more afraid of interpreting in a more terrifying way what he said, I obviously do not belong to the one who fears your findings. But I want to say here about matter, when we talk about the matter that is absolutely constitutional matter from the Constitution of Republika Srpska, then, Mr Ahmetović, you have to make peace with the fact that this Constitutional Court of BiH, which you so worship and whose decisions you worship and only wait when it will publish a constitutional court on a certain appeal, is also saying that, how does the Ministry of Education and Culture of Republika Srpska and instruct all schools in Republika Srpska that language, when it comes to Bošnjak, is the language of the Bosniak people in accordance with the Constitution of Republika Srpska. That is what the BiH Constitutional Court has announced. Now you find these decisions of the Constitutional Court very expensive and good when it announces a decision on 9 January and a celebration in Republika Srpska, but when it announces such a decision then you do not agree and then invite institutions such as the Ministry of Education and Culture in the Government of Republika Srpska to work and act counter-constitutionally. That's never gonna happen. As much as you threaten here, however unhappy you are that the Ministry will continue to work in accordance with the Constitution. And if this constitution ever changes, which I doubt, then you have the right of course to ask for anything, if anyone supports it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14060	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14061	Gentlemen chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What I'm beginning to worry about is the way we discuss the challenges that Bosnia and Herzegovina has, not only in one part of it, the entity, but also in another entity. I think things should go back to the institutions to talk about them honestly. At the first point of the agenda, since I was least invited to talk about language equality, there are no more or less invited here, we are all invited to speak openly as MPs, and I have only warned that in the institutions we use the language is not equal, and it is justly from the Council of Ministers with expenses. So, even languages are only if laws are published. That was the point of my asking questions and answers. And what I'd like to ask you to return the debate to civilised flows. Anything that can look like any kind of threat won't help solve a problem that I don't doubt my colleagues want to solve. You need to talk, you don't have to make a public play out of the problems that exist. But I'd like the MPs who are so fiercely and fiercely arguing, who have diametrically opposed attitudes, here are empty halls, and I haven't come in one day and found anyone to talk about what might be the problem of adults, children, old people, anyone else. So everything becomes a manipulative category in this country until it becomes the same. And that's why I'm warning, I think we're on our way to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I wouldn't want... to get angry, not make a manipulative category. And my warning is to calm down passion, we won't achieve anything if we say.....I don't know, using... the means to solve the problem. Only democratic means... that we all tried, only democratic means in this country can be a solution to any open problem if there is. Everything else I can't understand is that after 25 years, we mention it as a possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14062	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14063	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I will give up the discussion because I see this going in a completely different direction, but I will only comment here on one finding that the data provided by the Republika Srpska Ministry is incorrect, false, etc. Here, I don't know if they are, uh, whether there's a possibility or not they are, but it's certain that the Federation data isn't fake. And the Federation data says like this -- that in Tuzla Canton, in primary schools 42 students study Serbian language in the entire canton. The data says, here are some examples, that there are 7 students studying Serbian in Tuzla canton in the Tuzla canton, or there are sentences in the Zeničko-doboj canton – the teaching is done in Bosnian and Croatian, and there is an organisation of classes in Serbian language in the Maglaj municipality. 25 years after the war, we're getting ready for it. Or in Sarajevo, we don't even have any data as to whether it's being studied in Serbian high and elementary schools at all, with it being religious, there are 20 students who study Orthodox religion and 8 Protestants. Either, or, or, and so can I state in every canton in the Federation and Sarajevo what the situation is. I don't think we got the right information, that it wasn't in the same way and uniformly every canton answered the asked question and that this information should be refreshed, or that the Ministry should have delivered practically one form in which 33 would have all given the same information that we could compare here today. This is how we have data that simply gives each of us the right to discuss in its own way and prove its thesis, no matter what others think and how the other question... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14064	Thank you. Deputy Chairman Šefik Džaferović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14065	The false allegation refers to Mrs Marković's exposure when she called the Bosnian language a Bosniak people or to students in Republika Srpska learning the language of the Bosniak people. I would ask that indeed we sitting here in this hall respect, above all the Constitution of BiH, the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and then use the terms as indicated in these documents. At the end of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which includes both the Constitution and the other ten annexes, it is said that it is signed in Bosnian, in Serbian, in Croatian, so it says there just like this. I beg you, and in English it is signed, that we respect it. Secondly, when it comes to the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the use of language in Republika Srpska, I have a different opinion than the decision. I think the disposition of the decision should have been different and that the Constitution of Republika Srpska was not in line with the BiH Constitution on this issue, but the Constitutional Court concluded otherwise and that is the case, no matter what I think of it. But it should be fair to talk about it, and then continue to say that the Constitutional Court also said that all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including educational institutions in Republika Srpska, are obliged to respect the name of the language as the person using the language has it. The Bošnjak children in Republika Srpska are asking for their native language to be called Bosnian in documents, and you, or the Republika Srpska authorities, do not respect it and then use the formula from the Republika Srpska Constitution and say the Constitutional Court has thus ruled. The Constitutional Court also said this – that a name marked by a student, or a parent, must be respected. And I ask you to respect it in Republika Srpska. Do not tell us that it is respected by respecting the Constitution of Republika Srpska, so it is said that Bošnjak children speak the language of the Bosniak people, but it is not written that children who come from the Serbian people speak the language of the Serbian people but are written to be Serbian. We need, therefore, to be fully consistent and we must, therefore, respect, this, the Constitution of BiH. And, Mr. Špirić, I didn't answer you to this provocation this morning when it comes to the name of the language, you know as well as I do that the official language in Bosnia and Herzegovina is Bosnian. If you forgot this in the meantime, see the time when you were here with me in the period from 2002 to 2006 chairing the vice-president, how many laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina you signed with me in which the content states that languages are in official use in Bosnia and Herzegovina are Bosnian language, Serbian language and Croatian language. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14066	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14067	I know, the one why so many replicas when I personally said, in the third month, I asked for this information. Niko of the MPs from the Serb people voted to receive it, nor did they give information about any state from Republika Srpska, in what state the area is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now that there's been such a situation that we have a big problem, I repeat, I'm not threatening anyone, but compromises, negotiations on the Bosnian language are gone, nor will there be, and the answer to who denies it and denies the identity of the Bosnian, Bosniak people, especially the victims of genocide, will have the answer. So, I repeat, they'll have an answer. So if, then, I don't want anyone to be afraid of this, but I also repeat that no one will impose genocide on the victims, so what language will they speak when they have constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14068	Nikola Špirić, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14069	I'll just be brief, since the keyboard isn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14070	Okay, fine, fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14071	the wrong quote, and to sign up. I, obviously there are problems, but I just warned you to calm down the experiences. We won't solve anything at all has its own burden, nothing will be resolved by such public manifestations without much debate, many arguments, etc. And no one here is afraid of anyone. Everybody should know that right now. So it's going to be like this or it's going to be such an answer, I'd like the answer to be the thing people will sit about and talk about without any duplication, I don't know evil intentions, etc. And it's true that every time there's a part of the minimum... but there's a problem in this country and it's almost certainly not going to be imposed, and until there's any kind of agreement... change, this is going to be a topic, I just want them to be different tones. And if someone wants to fight, yell, threaten, they can do it tomorrow for me, I'm ready to sit and listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14072	Thank you. I thought I'd suggest we cut the discussion short for five minutes, this is an unfortunate proposal, not to discuss this, but to inform you that we have a point that requires an hour's preparation for secrecy. So the idea was that this hour-long break should be combined with the pre-voting break, so let's finish all of this and practically break for lunch. So I suggest we cut back, not make a decision, but I suggest we cut to five minutes if you agree. Well, thank you, then the discussion goes on for five minutes. Mr. Zaim Backovć is next.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14073	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 35 A lot of what I wanted to say was said and I'm only going to try not to use those five minutes for a while. Let people in this country, that people are what they are, that they feel the way they are and that they belong to the one they think they belong to, without the will of others being passed on to them or that their will is passed on to others. Everyone here is right, but everyone. I am surprised that from the Croatian regiment no one reacts that there are no Croatian language studies in the Republika Srpska report anywhere, so no children, there are none. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, they're nonexistent. But I have to say this, that I have seen by accident a testimony in which the Croatian language is written, I have seen a testimony in which the Serbian language is written, and I do not understand how it can then write the language of the Bosnian, Bosniak people. Then let him write the language of the Serbian people, the language of the Croatian people, and then it would be somewhere egal, not Serbian, Croatian, and here the language of a people. That's not fair. I'm not reducing anything, and this is what I was talking about, a real problem in the Federation, and we forget that we haven't solved it in the Federation. Look at the Drava, look at that canton, here's a report, look at the Middle Bosnian Canton, look at the report, you'll get it all figured out. It seems that the separation is based solely on my rule here and it will be like this. Not that the children, the most sensitive part of the population we have, feel happy and even, but that through our story and then through the story, of course, to their parents, who feel this as a balance to them and the pressure on them, feel subordinated. Why are we doing this? Remember that I asked here to go to changes to the Framework Law. I understand all the frustrations that we all have in the previous period, but does that give us the right to pass on our frustrations to those little heads that are supposed to run this country tomorrow, or do we have to make them Earthlings, that they love their country a little more than snakes, cartoons, and we turn them against our country. Why are we doing this? It is this national group of objects that must give quality of life, not permanent antagonisms. And we have constant antagonisms. By the time these antagonisms last, is there anyone to stand up and tell us to stop this? And yet, look at the canton where the Drvar is, look at Middle-Bosnian, but look at the Republika Srpska, it can't write Serbian, in the second Croatian, in the third language of the people. That language has its own name and that's its historical name. And don't do that. Like history, we obviously want to forge and create lies for someone, for someone's truth, and then for another truth to there is a lie. And so for 20 years, instead of rebuilding 20,000 factories, we've been talking more about these things. At the end of this report, and I agree with individual debaters, no point is true and it would be necessary to hold a special session and bring guidelines, if anything, that we are clean in front of the citizens who chose us. Because this approach doesn't lead to anything, so we make the kids want to run. One of the reasons why we're getting out of this country is exactly what we're talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14075	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14076	Ma, since I come from Central Bosnia, and I am the only representative selected from the list below Central Bosnia, means from Central Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the constituency, uh, I have to answer to Mr. Backović and ask him, so where is the Croatian language being studied in Sarajevo? I'd like to hear where the Croatian language is being studied in Sarajevo, in Zenica, in..., so the state school, the one..., I know what, don't you jump into my word. Another thing, I'd like Mr. Backović to explain how he intends to organize, or anyone here in the hall, therefore, teaching sermons in the official language of any people? How does he plan to organize it? So, I'd like someone here to explain to me what a teaching process looks like in a high or elementary school in the official language of a nation, and to be... how you think and seek it, therefore, and that's not the solution as it is in Central Bosnia. There's a teaching process down there in Croatian, there's a teaching process in Bosnian jazz, there's no teaching process until the end satisfied in Serbian, it depends again on educational groups, so curricula and programs, needs, etc., which I'm not saying is not there and I'm not saying it's not a mistake, etc. But, therefore, since I applied for the discussion, this is a short time for me to answer you a little bit about the law that I have offered, so you've just turned it down, so when it comes to the national group of cases.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14077	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14078	I thank the chairman. One discrimination if there can be no justification for another. And that principle somewhere doesn't exist because it doesn't exist and in another area it's something catastrophic. It is disastrous to hear in public discourse, and it is particularly disastrous to hear in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to me it is devastating. So one discrimination to justify another. The only appropriate approach is to address the non-discriminations that exist, regardless of who they relate to and where. Another thing, in this discussion, which does not refer to you as a colleague of Lovrinović, is the use of hard words, so someone sees them as a threat, someone doesn't. And then those who say it take pictures, of course, it's attractive to the media, take 5,000 and more wages and go, until the next session and the next difficult words, which will not be solved entirely by that problem. And if it's gonna be made by someone else I don't know, I wish it wasn't, and it's possible it will. So, just as one non-discrimination can't solve another and can't justify, so the same hard words will certainly accomplish nothing here. And for those who claim to be Bosniak, that Bosnian is the language of the Bosniak people, and sitting here, I ask you not to do it, because it is simply not true. In this way, you are only helping those who really want to be the only language of the Bosniak people in the public space to become one. When you speak, I beg you as my colleagues, about the right to call the language what people feel, I ask you not to speak about the right Bosniak people, but all those in Bosnia and Herzegovina who experience that language as their own and speak it. And don't make me, which I'm not Bošnjak and I speak Bosnian, that I have to think about what I have to say tomorrow, what language I use and what language I speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14079	Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. I'm sorry, there's been a mistake here. It turns out that before you did, Zaim Backović, I'm really sorry. Zaim Backović. 37 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The problem is, what's here now is obviously some kind of computer application problem. Go ahead, Mr. Isaacovic, since I see that your name is already marked here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14081	Yes, my correction to the wrong quote is to Mr. Lovrinović. I want to make it clear that the Catholic school centre in Zenica is funded from the budget of the Women's Doboj canton because I participated in it and I know well, so it's not. And I'll tell you Mr. Lovrinović that the Franciscan High School is also funded from the budget of the Women's-Dobojski, and I'll tell you that in Zepč, therefore there is the Don Bosco High School Centre, which is also funded and that the Government of the Women's-Doboj canton, therefore, has equipped IT and certainly... every year there are funds for heating and other things. In this high school center, even the University of Mostar is open, and this is funded. So, here's how much, you don't finance college, but it's funded, so classrooms, these equipment, etc. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14082	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14083	Not wanting to get into the controversy at all, I don't even think about it, but what I didn't say I didn't need, it's the same thing as when I was talking in the first person, and the esteemed lady generalized that I was speaking for everyone. Dear colleague, if you've heard correctly, I've said that everywhere there is, I've just said look at it as examples, and now you're making me quote other examples. E under the circumstances of my colleagues before me has stood up, so on the budget of the Sarajevo Canton there are schools in which only the Croatian language is. They don't belong to the public education system, they own, I say, the budget, they own no Sarajevo Canton or some municipalities, but one, I don't know how, institutions that are religious, primary school, one high school, another high school. I also don't want to get back into the controversy, but don't forget that people are enrolling their children in such schools, and that's their right and I don't respect them. Every parent goes after what he thinks is best for his child. And don't generalize things like that because they're not true, they're not true, they're just not true. And I haven't spoken for a moment, if there is a discussion in this, too much data, too, I wanted to bring this down to it, to see that there are problems, to have everywhere in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we, as responsible people, have to look for a solution and answer or go into the ever greater mud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14084	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14085	Catholic school centres are part of the public system, but they are not state schools, so they were founded by a Catholic church. And I didn't mention the Pupil-Doboj County at all, so I know about this data, but I don't know if you know about the fact that in Central Bosnia it's funded medres, it's funded in the Women's-Dobby canton of medres from the budget. So, as much as they perform public office in the field of education. But I asked you, I don't want to, of course, delude you, we can do whatever data you want here, so, and be sure there's an answer, I asked you, as a gentleman who brought out certain things, not you, but anyone to say – how will you organize an education system in a way that everyone has the right to school in their own language, especially official, and that it's not two schools under one roof, that it's not a national group of subjects,..., tell me that form? So, the right to have my child, my granddaughter is educated in her own language in Croatian is right or not, and that right means from elementary school to college, and as you see it. I'd like someone here to stand up and tell me that form, not just to talk floscules like you're saying, say it once. So, Catholic school centres, medres and some other schools that have a public function are not founded by the state, that the state has given them little money from the budget can also end them, so in Central Bosnia, this is decided by decisions, so it is not a permanent source of funding, it can be interrupted, and those founded by the state must finance them. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it's permanent here, it turns out it's been like that for years, but please give me the state school in Sarajevo where the Croatian language, founded by the state, is based on basic and high school, see to me. Play Catholic School Center, ___________(?) And Don Bosco.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14088	Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14089	You can do this to your colleague Lovrinović, only we talk a little differently, you're talking about education in Croatian, and I'm talking about studying Bosnian here. So, studying Bosnian language and that's different, that's so small. So, before the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we had a lot of schools where he was English, German, Russian, etc., and then he left one class when those languages were in three classrooms. Why not give so little to Bosniak children in Republika Srpska? What do you call it? I'm not here, there's no need for anyone to be afraid, but they won't be afraid of the genocide victims, that's the essence of the message, the essence of the message, they won't be afraid 20 years after the war. Thank you very much. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14090	Salko Sokolović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14091	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's a little bit. I don't think this is good information, and I don't know if we're adopting or accepting it today, we're taking it to the knowledge, but in any case we shouldn't accept it, nor should we accept it. Now the question is, why? The title of Information, who reads well, says – Information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an emphasis on the study of the national group of subjects, etc., etc. What about Framework Law, what about its application, in this Information we don't have, we only have an emphasis, and the emphasis is here again, I'm going to repeat, studying the national class of subjects. If you can colleagues just a little louder...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14092	Please pay attention to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14093	Uh, I wasn't laughing, I want us all to hear what I'm talking about, because no one's talking about it. So, we're talking here, I repeat, once again, the information on the application of the Framework Law, we don't have any framework law in this information at all. We only have this accent and here we are involved in this someone, let's say, a chain round and it's obvious that this information is incorrect, not only, for space, for information we're getting from Republika Srpska but also from the Federation. To say that the Bosnian language is represented in schools, and to have through the means of informing permanent information that some bad things happen when it comes to Bosnian language in Republika Srpska, then means that the information we receive from Republika Srpska is not good. What we have from the canton, from one canton, we have ten sentences, from another canton 38 sentences, from..., it seems to me from the Sarajevo Canton which, let's say, by volume, by the number of elementary and secondary schools should have given us a little bit more information we have a few sentences, etc., the Un-Sancan Canton has not responded to send the information, it seems to me, the Brcko District, etc. So we have some information that, here's what's here amongst us MPs just produced a certain storm of disdain, debate, persuasion. I don't think she's good and we shouldn't have talked about her, but she's inevitably asking that this, uh, thematic session when it comes to education we have as soon as possible, with some specific, here's the chairman of the Council of Ministers, with one quality information from the Council of Ministers and that we discuss on the subject and not, here's this illogical, I don't know if you've noticed her through reading this information, says – the competent educational authorities are aware of the fact that it's important for your children to have equal access to basic education and to allow them to continue further education in the environments and schools that respect human rights and fundamental freedoms towards the Constitution of BiH. So, we have schools that don't respect basic human rights, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and then they should be here precise about which schools they are, are those schools that Bosnian languages don't recognize, but they call it some other language, etc. So, it can't in the information given by the official state institution be tied up, carried out in such a way that it opens up space for us to have in this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here's when it comes to education and schools that don't respect human rights and don't behave according to basic freedoms defined by the Constitution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suggest we not adopt this information. Thank you, Chairman. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14094	Hanka Vajzović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14095	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know what I'm supposed to say anymore. I'm probably the most professionally invited person to talk about these questions because, professionally, I am, therefore, because I've written and published about it, and I've told you everything, and now I feel like I need to prove an axiom. It's like I don't know where else to start, whether or not to replicate, there's a lot going on today. But if I start with this information then I'm going to say that this doesn't make any sense to direct it like this, I don't know what the answer was, and I'm going to take the opportunity to say that we don't need any of these agencies. We have education on cantons in the Federation, we have there, and we now have some agencies dealing with higher education, middle, primary, we need one ministry, the problem goes on a long time ago. Either way, it's about, what's controversial, about two plans. One is content, we're talking about language, the other is formal, we're talking about nominating language. And we got those two mixed up. Surely, as blasphemous as it sounds, if we had one language, and all would admit it if they were allowed to say it, yes, it is one language, but it is mine. One, if there were one here, I guess we know best, no one should be translated, it's about adapting to that little percentage of the difference between the ones that were created in the standardisation process, and now we're arguing about it. I'm sure it's discriminatory, I'll say it is, here I'll say it's political impertinence, and if I wasn't here, I might say political indiscriminately, in the sense of this kind of discrimination that only one people is given a descriptive name. Can you imagine, there is, whether there are Austrijanac, people who live in Austria, the people of Austria, whether we speak not of them, but of the language of the Austrian people, and I don't know which of all the peoples. Where's that? It's nowhere to be found, it has a name of language because it's called that anyway. Especially if it is discriminatory, even for one, it is descriptive, and for the other is a normal language name. So we have different language names, we have a common system of communication, we have a common means of communication, we have differences in some small ones in the standardisation process, differential lines, and we now make a hell of a problem, we're going to kill ourselves, I guess that's how it is now. I don't think there's a problem, I think we can communicate perfectly, that this issue needs to be brought into line with the Constitution and that I simply don't see any language, linguistically there is no, politically created artificial, this kind of problem. If I can still, if I have, if I don't, I've broken the time, now you've cut to 5 minutes, maybe it's useful for my colleague Tomić to admit that I'm the one who introduced her, most likely thinks others, that in 1999 it's the way it is, because I didn't have a choice of second, the BHS, and I think she's also responding to what Saša was talking about earlier, colleague Magazinović. So BHS leaves room for everyone to cover, I published the book, wrote before the war, published in 1999, it was not Serbian, I used this. So that's what the former Bosnian Herzegovina standard language term is. Unlike variants, this was an expression, and that is the language of Bosnia and Herzegovina as much as anyone wants it and that is its wealth. That's why we have both the system and the system, which is why everything here is absolutely allowed, makes one fortune a language. I don't see a problem anywhere, of course I see this as a serious discrimination that just needs to be put to a point, anywhere anyone who wants to say it's him and that, let them be allowed to do it in the Federation, is that in Republika Srpska, if they want to be called that, otherwise we go with a shortcut that BHS and no one is wrong. When it comes to the subject, be careful, it is not here, I think Sadik Ahmetović is wrong, the use of language and should be and it should be, of course, indicated, and what we will do when he is a biology student, who will then provide him with Croatian, Bosnian, or geography, we only have language systems when 41 we study should let out who interests or points to differences, we have no others. I've always done it and I've always insisted, I'm sorry, I've insisted, and I've called it language tolerance, learn from everyone that you can train for communication, everything where differential lines are mastery and respect your own, freely commit, choose what's yours, but as a teaching subject there's no other, there's just no other choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14096	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14097	I thank the chairman. Here, I'm going to really try to talk about the essence of the document delivered, not using this for populism and ethnic, further ethnic charge in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When the title of the document is read itself, it says – Information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is then said, is constantly being passed through the text by the term of the national group of cases, and taking into account the law that was adopted in 2003 and called the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, it is only mentioned as a term for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the countries in the region or countries in Europe where there is a need for our children studying their language in diaspora, so according to these agreements to this term – the national subject is used. What is mentioned in this Law is a common core, i.e. study, and, of course, through all these attitudes is mentioned whether, as it should be respected, there would be no segregation, discrimination and everything else, and not to mention all that Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken on as an obligation by signing the Convention on Human Rights. And then we get from Honorable Minister Adil Osmanović, is he, who is a member of the SDA, at that conference, at which I ask Mr Ahemtović, because he is so interested in solving the problem, that he also comes to the conference, where most of them are the ministers of education from the SDA, also from HDZ, so all those who are interested, to discuss together, because I am the only one from Parliament who participates in the conference. But not as one member who has the right, or the right to decide, but as an associated member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. What is also unclear to me is that this information was considered only by the Constitutional Commission, not delegated to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, so it was allowed to be derailed, i.e. in the pre-election of this process to show that everyone is interested in solving the problem. In fact, no one, or most of them, is interested, because if they did, there wouldn't be 20 years of this problem. What is tragic, in fact, and what is on the one hand and commendable, is that these older generations hold the status quo, but here next to all of these disasters that have hit the young population in Bosnia and Herzegovina social networks are constantly publishing one positive information, and that is where 12% of the population is interested in two schools under one roof are Stolac and Eggs, and that was parents who were respondents, i.e. participants in UNICEF questionnaire and covered 1,043 persons. And parents are 12% interested in two schools under one roof, but here in the last two weeks, we have information where high school students in Jac do not allow the division by ethnic principle, or to separate themselves, to segregate within the facility. What I'm still interested in is that in the Information itself, how dry it is, how inadequate it is, how many people are starting to wonder how many actually employees are in the Ministry of Civil Affairs, in Sector 42 education, that they weren't able to deliver the information to an adequate name as they name it. On the other hand, they are unable to deliver an opinion on this Information. What do we have from this information? So this is what we could get as a representation question, each of us could ask and get the same table view. And that this joint core, defined by Article 43, should be the same everywhere, shows this information that it's not the same. You have, say, Tuzlani Canton, says it's only the native language, so Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian states, and religious, while Canton 10 says it's history, so it says Canton 10, which I have to say a little bit of a positive surprise because when I asked a representative question to provide me with information as many children in Canton 10 have written or requested a print for going to the diaspora, then they couldn't give that information, because for God's sake, it would certainly mean how many, who stayed in Livanian Canton to live, and says here the Lithuanian Canton, when it states how many children are studying Bosnian, says no children for Bosnian language, there are no children for Bosnian language. Does that mean that this territory is ethnically clean? It's not information that would, the information is that it does, but they don't have the ability to learn Bosnian. And that... and this Information, this Information deserves a special session, not like this in five minutes, so, five minutes, you shortened the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, where I was looking for a report on the Agency for Primary and Secondary Education. He's gone, in 2014 you had inside the Council of Ministers' Work Report, 2015 you don't have that report. This shows all the readiness of the Council of Ministers to resolve the problem, it shows how much the coalition is really committed and wants to solve this problem, it shows that everything has been used for the pre-election campaign, this shows that children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this younger population is doomed to fail, namely leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina because of the failure of the ruling coalition to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14098	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14099	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Council of Ministers in one, so to speak, and the other guests, I welcome you all together. I must say, I read this report with a stomach cramp. I'll tell you why. It is, I can agree with my colleague Sokolović, in a lot of things missing, the text doesn't match the title, as if in the paper it's where... it happens often, but what I read I'll focus on a few things, because I'm really not an expert in education, and even in language and linguistics, the numbers are closer to me, so I'm going to say a few figures. In a very brief report from Canton of Sarajevo, we see that 770 students attend Catholic religious studies. In the city of Sarajevo, about 70,000 Hrvat lived in the 1991 census in Canton of Sarajevo. 770 are attended today by Catholic religious teachings of children in a city that carries the charisma of multiculturalism around the world, unlike another city of Mostar who often or daily resorts to the cross of shame. Where are those kids, where are those people, how did they disappear? Not to repeat what my colleague Backović added to me, 199 in Republika Srpska there are children who attend Catholic religious studies, teaching in Croatian, so there is no, and only in Banja Luka is food from the 1991 list 29.026 Hrvat. We've thrown away a difficult topic today, a population list, we've dealt with it, this topic has made us, like a boomerang, come back to us, in a way, on the subject. Just that few data. And that's why what we really don't need here today is a hypocrisy of any kind, even if the legislator, the proponent of this 43 Report, or the one who did the Report, is not here today to discuss how the report came about, why it's flawed, and to what extent it's missing. I said I'm not supposed to be, not from that branch, with my colleague Vajzović on the subject of linguistics to nominate, but I can make it very clear what the Constitution says about the languages of the constituent peoples... who are here. And that came from some linguistic analysis. We often mention some happier countries here that also, like Scandinavia, have their own languages very similar, I don't know if they're similar to these languages, but they understand each other very well. And I used to listen to them brag about how they made sure they had two schools under one roof, to study two languages, no matter how few children there were in Denmark in Sweden, Norway in Denmark, etc. When they told us how we would solve this system, they told us about these positive experiences. When I'm talking about hypocrisy, I don't know, I'm going to ask, I probably can't get an answer like this to that question, so it's going to go through the parliamentary question again about numbers. I'll be complemented, I'll be able to relate a little bit to what my colleague Tomić was saying, there are 85 BHS language students in Tuzlan canton in primary schools, in secondary schools there are 1,738 of them. It's interesting that jump from the eighth or ninth grade of primary school in the first grade. Interesting for analysis, but that's what it says. What may be hypocritical, but here's the question I'm going to ask, how is this BHS language class going on, whether separately or by chance those children who don't insist on their language is called BHS, or their parents, that BHS language class attends the Bosnian language class, and I don't know where the second language is written in student law, BHS. I'm afraid so. And that's what I'd like to see and check, because then it's hypocrisy. Then that's how we hide someone else, or third, or fifth thing. Thank you for your time, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14100	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14101	I'll be brief, I don't have anything but a correction to the wrong quote, and I'd like to actually explain how I think this is actually a recipe, it's a model that would be good. I applied it in the teaching, so in which language the teacher communicates, like what is his, and he, of course, consistent with the norms constantly pointing out where the differential lines are, and they don't have much. Literature, science says you judge one language according to the degree of understanding of its users, if understood and where they are. All we have is symbolic nature, which we have as that kind of differential, differentiation in the standard language and symbolic, nothing communicative. I can list 5 of some or 10 of the solutions where the message is going to be compromised, everything else is at the level of symbolism. Here, on a level or a level, sometimes I find this attractive, sometimes that. I mean, it's very possible and it doesn't have to go to harm any people. The teacher has both Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak. So let them, of course, as it is written, as it is in accordance with the norms, so they will say, cannot come out of these frameworks, warning always or notifying.../very difficult to understand/... we must communicate. I think it's as good as it sounds to someone... I tell you what linguistics says, what language practice says, the Constitution is different. What someone said was that it was all so, that now we have to argue about it is another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14102	Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've called a couple of times, maybe you've noticed, and every time I give up, because I don't think there's any point in taking part in a debate like this. Whatever material this is, he's much better than the debate. The debate went in a completely different direction and this debate was clearly marked by the upcoming local elections, which is quite evident. That's one thing. The second thing, I want to warn and ask those who speak here and in a negative context lead Tuzla and Tuzla Canton not to do it because they don't know how things are. It's not about the sudden jump, it's about the fall, it's about the fall, it's about a lot, a lot of things or the consequences of a lot of things, a lot of what's going on in this country. Individuals and whole families move out, and high school goes before primary school. So that should be taken care of. That's a second piece of information. The third data, the BHS languages, you see something, the one that goes to high school now went, eight years ago went to primary school, and those who go to primary school went to primary school only now are they facing the problem. Only in a few years will universities, universities, universities have terrible problems. This is where people move out, this kind of discussion contributes to people simply not seeing their perspective in this country. And that's the basic problem. As for BHS and data 1,700 or 1,740 students to listen to, to be defined for, in the universities of Tuzla University diploma is obtained for BHS languages. That's how it's set up because it's marked in the school system. So, for those languages or for that language, students are assigned either to that class of subjects or exclusively to one of the languages, whether it was Serbian, Croatian or Bosnian, so BHS languages. So, I ask that those who do not know things about Tuzla and Tuzla Canton, and especially Tuzlu, do not bring into a negative context in which the discussion is being held here. It is obvious here that there is not enough data, that there is insufficient knowledge of the situation, globally when we talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Federation of BiH, and that the discussion is based solely on political reasons and the collection of political points. Here, that was, several times I wanted to discuss it, so in the end I decided to say... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14104	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14105	So, I'd like to discuss some more things right now, of course I'll refer to something that's said in the meantime. So, next, Mrs. Hanka, a colleague of Hanka, she said she adapted it, so to the teaching staff. I think, ma'am, that's not a standard, so there's got to be an official language at school, and it's got to be spoken by teachers. So, first of all, it's a student question, not the teacher's. So now a teacher can't come to speak German and teach in German if children don't understand it. So, in the teaching process one official language can be used, everything else is 45 foreign language studies, and how we in Bosnia and Herzegovina possibly agree on a national group of subjects, and teaching must be done in one official language, and not as the teacher comes from somewhere, so can the Makedonac. When Mrs. Hanka, a colleague of Hanka told her about the Eggs, so I have to tell her the following is that, therefore, two high schools in the egg have a teaching process in the Croatian language. And the request of the mayor of the municipality, the request of the children's parents was to organise classes in Bosnian. When it started then now as children it won't. Look, now I don't know what anybody wants. So it is the right of the Bosniak people to study classes in Bosnian. When it was tried to accomplish it now it turned out that no children, and unlike them parents, the chief, wanted it. And when the procedure started at Parliament's Assembly of the County Assembly, then there was some sort of reverse. I don't know why. I also agree with her that a national group of subjects is not a model for a constituent people to educate their children. This with colleague Hanka, Maja, I agree, but it was a model that talked about return zones, remember 2002, and now that there was little today, there was a fair debate, remember that I offered legally to regulate the issue of a national group of cases. This is really not the solution to the education system, but it is for our question of the return zone. There may be a more permanent solution if we agree so already, where we can't get a complete education in one, second or third official language can also be a solution, but I'm ready for that kind of debate anywhere and anytime, I don't know where it's all mentioned. And when it comes to, say, Catholic school centres, so I'm just going to say about Travnik, the Court of Human Rights decisions, even in Strasbourg, should have returned the building, it hasn't been returned, it hasn't been returned since 2006. So that's where the public building started because the kids from the state school are going, and then she's amazed by 15 million marks, of course there's no money for it, it's quite a coincidence that she's so expensive that she can't move the kids out, that she can't go back to where she's supposed to be. And these are all the problems that follow the education system. But what I'm trying to say is, it's not fair, then, is that half a year ago, I offered the colleagues who discussed it so badly today a law that dealt with the issue of a national group of cases. That's six items for you, and that's serious, so serious intervention in the education system, in my opinion. So, if you have somewhere, let's say in Predlore six objects from the national group of subjects that that's when it's accepted, and neither are those who advocate it today, including religious, language, visual, music, history, so it's not accepted and there's no solution. And that to you... just as far as I know from the Horseman Fields are looking, so at least they have a national group of objects. Of course the point is in the language, but I haven't talked about it or asked for any explanation. As far as language is concerned, so my commitment is clear, the Bosniak people have the right to call the language what they want, I accept it, only if we are going to perform analogy out of it, so the name of the people gives a name for the language. If that's what the people want me to call it, and I respect it, but if that analogy were, then it would be the Bosniak language. But I accept what someone wants to call it, so I don't mind. So this, in my opinion, is the information the Ministry of Civil Affairs could provide, in accordance with its constitutional powers and responsibilities. And that's what gave it, what the authorized ministries delivered, and it's what it is. It's probably both missing and probably need a fat debate, and I'm sure these are the professional topics that we need in some, as Mr Špirić said, rooms, where they're free, where they're debated, those who want to take part in it, we don't have to be populists here, which is what a colleague here said. Information is a item of the agenda, I just took advantage of it, I believe other colleagues, that about it... nothing more. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm ready to discuss this kind of thing further. Thank you very much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14106	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14107	Well, since I am also a German language and literature teacher, I would like to inform Mr. Lovrinović that there is a third and fourth year of methodology and didactics teaching German where to avoid speaking any native language. Thus, it is made clear that you only use your mother tongue in the necessary cases because that is how you learn, or listen to, the accent of a foreign language. And it's for children who attend foreign languages very useful. On the other hand, where there may be no understanding, which my esteemed colleague Hanka Vajzović said, is that I also graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Sarajevo, where we had a professor who taught German and used the translation in all three languages. And that's that BHS. And we called this subject BHS language, where everyone had the opportunity to translate one text or one word to hear that it is said in Bosnian, or Serbian like this, in Croatian, where there are lexical... differences, etc. What I would like to mention once again, where I essentially think that perhaps Mr. Lovrinović did not understand very well, why I touched the joint core. Because it's Article 43. Framework law on primary and secondary education. And it says here that an ad hoc commission, appointed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was reached on a proposal by the provisional body and by an ad hoc commission on the common core of curricula and programmes and signed by all the entity ministers, i.e. the canton, or Brcko District. I am now asking a question – which is not in this Information Minister provided information on whether these education ministries have an agreement adequate for entities, for all cantons, the Brcko District, or whether with each canton, or entity, or Brcko District, an entirely different agreement on the common core has been reached. And that's for sure, I just want it in writing. And the information shows that in one canton... a common core of the native language, religious science, history, in another canton, it's not, because you can see that someone delivered a tabular display, someone had nothing to write. On the other hand, where there is a phenomenon of two schools under one roof, so no one gave information that and if there is a national group of objects, that is, The core, if it were physically separated students, if the students were going to school one morning, one, one, going to the morning shift, one in the other shift, so they wouldn't even physically greet themselves in the school yard. [[Employee is warned on time]] That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14108	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, non-compliance with the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14109	I don't have another one, but it is a little bit of a non-resistance of the agenda, because this information about the joint core doesn't exist. So, first of all, I'm a college teacher, and that same college only finished before you were 20 and a few years old, and I had both didactics and teaching methods and everything else. So, just to tell you one thing, the common core is not what you're saying, the common core exists in a substantive sense for each object and it needs to be implemented in all curriculas and programs. If you're a teacher, I understand what I'm saying. So, not 47 talk about one or the other subject, but in all cases a common core is sought, which as a result, students will have from each class in any curricula and programme. So, you've simply confused the concepts, but here we go, we'll talk some other time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14110	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14111	Really, Mr. Chairman, I don't understand why you let this go. So, a man gets up and tells you – yes, I don't have the right to a third line, so I signed up for not keeping the agenda and then goes on the line. And here today we have one constant, the members of all three constituent nations told the truth when they applied for the discussion, applied for a full... basis and stood up and the lights discussed. I just don't understand why you let them go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14112	I let go because of the tradition so far. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14113	Well, as far as my colleague Arnaut is concerned, I'm going to make a quite regular correction of the wrong assumption, and I'm going to refer to the exposure, to the correction of my colleague, Đonlagić, in a way to say that there are no sacred cows in this country, so neither is Tuzla, and sometimes we're going to mention it, no matter what context. And if, in the Report, this, the use of one language, even if it's called BHS from primary schools to secondary schools, I'm going to grow again with the language of numbers, 2,000 percent in absolute numbers, and 4,000 percent when we look at numbers relatively. Either it's not a proper report or something's wrong with, here, uh, the model... of that language. I will leave myself the opportunity, regardless of these prohibition provisions, to check how four different languages are taught in Tuzla Canton.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14114	MP Milica Marković, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, first of all, I should refer to what Mr. Džaferović said in his reply that he accepts that the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court is what it is, but that he thinks that the Republika Srpska authorities should accept and call the language, to formulate the language as one of his people calls it, referring to Bosniaks and Bosnian languages. And I am shocked by the fact that I, as a language professor, am now supposed to convince Mr. Džaferović as a lawyer that the Constitution and constitutional category are not a daily newspaper so today can stand one content, tomorrow will stand third, the day after tomorrow, the day after the third, and so on. So, all that has been brought out here and what has been said about the formulation of the Bosniak people's language in Republika Srpska stems from the Constitution of Republika Srpska. And I don't know if this is what we've been hearing today, where we've been listening to everything, means that one of our colleagues is now calling on the institution of an entity to work against the Constitution, constitutional co-egories and constitutional definitions as it stands. Until this morning, we have heard that Bošnjak want their language to be referred to as Bosnian, and here today in the discussion we spontaneously came to know that it is no longer Bosnian but BHS language. And what colleague Monika Tomić said at the outset – who has now introduced that category, where did that category come from, who came up with it, where does it stand, on which law is it founded? It is precisely saying that 48 is very dangerous and wrong to accept that in the official position of one institution there are findings as one would wish at that time. And just because he wants to do it yesterday doesn't mean he wants to do it today, but today he can do something else, tomorrow he'll want to do it third and so on. To say, Mrs. Vajzović, that political impudence is that someone will not nominate the language of a nation as that people call their own language is, I would say, at the very least, political insolence, the term that you have already used here in this House, although it is inappropriate for this hall, for the reason that everything here, the data that has been placed on us in this Information, tells us about another fact – that the presence of Serbian children in schools in the Federation and teaching in the Serbian language and national groups of subjects comes down to some differences. Because if you compare the numbers that are listed here with children who attend classes in Serbian, they don't have a national group of cases, when you do it mathematically, that's 0.000 percent. What is here is data that Serbian children attend religious science does not mean, it is not the effect of schools in the Federation, it is the effect and contribution of the Serbian Orthodox Church which has organized priests and religious sciences to come to these schools to hold children's classes. So these schools can't take themselves as their own effect to say, here we are, that's the contribution. One is religious, a parent can say my child will go or won't go to religious but the native language and the national group of subjects is something that should be mandatory in schools. Both political insolence and insolence among those who use this agenda today to say that, here they do not dispute that they are represented in Republika Srpska, and that teaching is performed in the language of the Bosniak people and that there is a national group of subjects. No one slowed it down here today or mentioned it. If it only slows down as it says in the student book, which is the language, it slows down. And I'm telling you now that in Janja next to Bijeljina where there is a significant number of Bošnjak who live are performed both the native language and the national group of subjects, and the religious sciences performed in schools by Tuzla Canton programs. And if there is this information here, here we have information, says – the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Middle Bosnian Canton, when it speaks of teaching then says – in information, the competent ministry states that if required and when the conditions are created, the teaching process will be organised in Serbian for students of Serbian nationality. Imagine, 20 years after some processes the Ministry wrote you like this. Or, for example, the Ministry of Boring, Science and Culture of the West-Herzegovina County, says – the competent ministry has only reported on the number of students in primary and regular schools attending Islamic religious studies, 36 students attending Islamic religious schools. Where are the others? What is this information that this, it seems, is that those who wrote this information from these cantonal ministries are either told or thought to send this information to the office of the SDA General Committee or sent it to the Ministry of Civil Affairs to come here to Parliament. So here are things inadmissible, inadmissible from the aspect that one who has done nothing where he is responsible and competent to allow the law to be applied absolutely in the same way. If you are looking for this in Republika Srpska, then you must make it possible for others in the Federation and in the cantons. That's not the case, it's only for one, and there we're going to look for hair in the egg to see how it says in the book, if it says Bosniak people, it's wrong, it's going to say as we say. And there's no such thing as These kids, I don't want to talk about where those kids are. [[Employee is warned on time]] Someone mentioned in Banja Luka how much food the Hrvat ate, so here I am telling you by '92. It has fed 150 thousand Srbin in Sarajevo, here, so where are those children today. There may be some who have returned but no one to organize their teaching in their language. And I know perfectly well that in Kiseljak, where the authorities do, therefore not Srbin, they have nothing to do with the power in Kiseljak, when A group of parents asked that Serbian, which is a very small number, allow Serbian children to study in Serbian and Orthodox religious science remained silent. [[Employee is warned on time]] And 49 today we have that one maybe a small percentage of these children go to school, they have to go to school because they live in another language. Now, that's Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there's no need to convince ourselves here. So Republika Srpska institutions will respect the constitution and no one has the right to invite them to work differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14116	Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14117	Well, here, I think it's about time we put things together, if we're talking about continuing in that and that language, or if we're talking about an object that covers a particular language. How do you think there's no discrimination here, however you like, I get from Republika Srpska, which is the rule, I get in Cyrillic, I get in Serbian, where it's recognizable differentially. Who's being discriminated against? Let's say, if you respect the law, the impossible of both of you, and you write in Serbian, and I assure you in Bosnian, it's simply not possible. Am I going to be so toleranceous that I know if the text is from someone who has defined himself as Croatian that I will win in Croatian. I have to talk about it, about tolerance, I need to know that difference and rule the team, that's why people are educated, that I can use that text, but let you do that on this second one, too. Here this, we're talking discrimination, political insolence, I said that I was in another place then I wouldn't say insolence but insolence, I didn't use it, but here I agree that it is, I'm talking exclusively about discrimination. If he is a jasik of the Bosniak people, then he will be both Serbian and Croatian, not one of them, one of them. It is not possible to organise classes in Serbian, Bosnian, Croatian, in all languages, it is not possible. We can isolate the object, what about the other contents? I didn't understand my colleague, Lovrinović, that a teacher must come out of that language. Does that really mean that the English must only teach the original, the one whose mother is original..., which would have to be the Croatian lecture of someone who is Croatian,... that's why they are educated. I didn't understand what you were, and this is how it works, it works. Here, the language tolerance of BHS to warn, this is where the differences are made, this is where the norm says that the differences are, you learn, choose your own, respect someone else's. And that's all the story. So if we call it, a language expression that no one will admit... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14118	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now this is what I'm taking as an example, this is something I didn't want to be dragged into, is the discussion all the way out of context here and beyond what was the goal of this information. This has completely turned into one, one politics, and with this discussion, we're not going anywhere. I had no intention of making a "holy cow" out of Tuzla for a moment, no matter how much it sounds like a cartoon, my colleague Kožul knows it very well, and if he determines any irregularity, which I don't say he doesn't, maybe I don't know it, I'll be the first one to go up against that irregularity, so it doesn't matter what happens in Tuzla, but my job is 50 that I fix it with Tuzli. And I invite you all if you're willing to correct the impeccableness, correct them in your midst, and don't let us criticize them only if we see them in the other environment. This is exactly what happened here, and I think that politics has come to a maximum today at this point in the agenda. That's not good. But here's the thing, really, not one moment, and it never occurred to me to ban the debate about Tuzla, anything that's negative, me and my colleague, Kožul, we're going to go to Tuzla and to the door, and we're going to discuss it there on the spot. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14120	Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened carefully to Mr. Džaferović's discussion in the segment when he said the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed in Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian and I think he added English as well, he said. I will referirati, in my discussion, MP Marković honours Mr. Džaferović, and he warns him with a sharp commanding tone that she is a teacher, also a language, but should say that she is a French language teacher, so then, I don't know how she imagines verbal communication, whether she will explain it to him in French, but I think she is the least invited to talk here about political impudence and insolence, because the highest possible level of political impudence and insolence is the ultimatum in which she keeps speaking and threatening and saying – she has to write as we say. He just needed to shake his hand and say what we say from the SNSD, because I know that's not what most people in Republika Srpska think. I apologize to you this time for my reaction earlier, but I would like everyone here in this room to respect each other equally, as I respect that it is called Serbian, so I would like my language to be respected that it is Bosnian, and that we respect each other. And I, and to you as chairman and to all my colleagues, always show my deep respect, but I will not remain silent to the fact that Mrs. Marković keeps mentioning the SDA. I am glad that you are always full of the mouth of the SDA, which is that you take great care of Foreigners of Democratic Action, and thank you for the importance we give, we deserve to have the importance because we are the most numerous political party, so by membership, in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but your perfidious insinuations that the report on the learning of Islamic religious sciences is being facted pretentically from the Ministry of Civil Affairs to the General Committee of the United States, is also a political insult, and the Council of Ministers, and the U.S.A., but mostly those who practice Islam as their religion. There's something else the SDA does, and don't you worry about what the SDA's Chief Board is doing, and don't tie up the learning of Islam as a science, as a religion, don't tie it up, it's not an exclusive of the Party of Democratic Action, absolutely. Islam is practicing whoever wants, who wants and who feels in his heart. So I think, of course, of course, don't insult us anymore and don't threaten us at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14122	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14123	My colleagues chair, my fellow Members and fellow Members. 51 I am closest to the position of my colleaguesĐonlagić I do not mind any differences, neither ethnic nor language, except that we, 20 years after Dejton, are trying to make up differences that will continue to distance us further and further. It's a tragic fact in this country. And no one can impose anything on anyone, nor is it intended to impose. I don't think there is a ministry that can describe the education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, I don't know, you're MPs, you talk to outsiders, so education for 25 years has only encouraged divisions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The way we debate today, who listens, is just deepening that division. That's why I was saying we got the information, people pointed out the problems they had on the ground in municipalities, entities, etc. Obviously, there are problems, there are absolutely... no exclusive culprits for the problem. But what worries me is there's no will here for us to handle it. If there was a will then there would have been, we've hit this information today, it's what I think it is, it can't write that there's no more, no less, but the education system 25 years after Dejton and otherwise the education system has made such scars in Bosnia and Herzegovina that they're hard to fix. And I ask you, please don't take the lead, what counterpart Đonlagić said, the election campaign, Information is what it is, people to keep talking, what is wrong with entity governments, competent ministers to open a debate on the problems and challenges of the education system. I listened to almost one sociological study where they said they went to the Eggs of Banja Luka and asked the children in eighth and high school – do you go to Banja Luka? They say -- sure, full, wonderful, wonderful, but we don't understand each other. How can you not understand each other? He says when we leave, so people understand the speech, and when we leave, the inscriptions are on Cyrillic, we don't know the sign of the stadium Borco. People it's 60 km from Banja Luka, in 15 years through this system it's going to be the same as if we've talked to children from Vienna. I'm just saying an example, so I'm not saying anything negative, children live in such an environment on both sides. I want to speak only of what traces this education system has left, and today we're talking about who was more involved in it and who was less, where it's like an ideal situation, and where nothing is wrong. And the question is, are we at this level of political maturity to approach this problem essentially? That's all I care about. I don't think we'd be better off, I'm sorry that this debate went on today and I knew and that's why I warned us to stick to the information, not the impression that anyone has about anyone's language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14124	Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14125	I think, Mr. Špirić, that you are not at that level of political maturity because it was you who were when... the machines appeared in this House of Representatives that troubled the fact that one of the languages listed here was Bosnian. So don't tell us about it, you're the least invited to talk about it. As for what your party colleague, Mrs. Marković, said, this is already who knows which time I heard her say she was shocked by something, and I noticed that she says that every time she doesn't understand something someone else said, so Mrs. Marković is very often shocked. Mr. Džaferović did not say at all what you interpreted in his, his correction to the wrong quote. So, in its decision, the BiH Constitutional Court decided that the formulation contained in the RS entity constitution, which is that official languages are the language of the Bosniak, the language of the Croatian and the language of the Serb people, that the formulation as such is not contrary to the BiH Constitution. And Mr. Džaferović said that if he had decided on it, he would have gone one step further and found that it was contrary to the BiH Constitution. But then he returned to that essence of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision, which concerns this topic, which is that no entity, or any authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has any authority 52 to challenge any constituent people's right to do so, the right of that contituous people to call their language what they will. So that's the essence of the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, not the first thing Mr. Džaferović spoke about and about what he said on the way that he would go on about it as well. But what is essential is that no authority, and the authority in this context of the Constitutional Court's decision means even the principal of the primary school, so no authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina has the right to challenge any constitutional people's right to call that nation their language the way they want it to, including that it writes Bosnian language in his student books. So, if the Constitutional Court's decision, which we both talked about in the end and Mrs. Kapetanović, were fully implemented, then the problem of the student books would be solved immediately because it would have written the Bosnian language. What we now have is acute discrimination, that in the case of one nation writing Serbian in student books, in the case of another people writing the language of the Bosniak people. And I guarantee you as someone who can really speak authoritatively about these issues that the European Court of Human Rights will very easily disprove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14126	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14127	Well, I wish we had one chance for someone to let us have a public stenogram here and hear what Mr. Arnaut was saying before, so there's no more than half a year, when they were opposition, and especially at the time when Mr. Džaferović chaired this kolegijum, that he didn't take himself off from any point but he did, the maltene at every point had a replica and parliamentary intervention. I think that if someone here lets you have this stenogram in public to make you very uncomfortable, and now you're defending yourself, and now you're reporting to defend Mr. Džaferović's character and work. I mean, I don't have a comment on that at all. As for you, Mrs. Kapetanović, you have made several incorrect findings here. First, if I were a professor of French, French, Italian and Latin, you didn't know that, and in my college school, I had four semesters of listening to Serbian language and literature and taking the exam, for your information. Secondly, I didn't say here that there would be as we say, you made it up completely and placed it here, I'm wondering where your political culture is that, from time to time, you get involved in the discussion, so what you think you've heard is someone you're complaining about and respecting here. And thirdly, I'm absolutely not interested in the SDA, nor are my mouth full of SDA, I don't know why I would be, I have no reason to, I'm full of the mouth of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats. But what I said here and quoted, like, the information sent by two ministries in this group information, I said, people seem to think that what they're writing is being sent to the SDA General Board's office, not that you're respecting me for what you imagined by hearing and now you're objecting to me. I mean, I'm really wondering where your political culture is.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14128	Nikola Špirić has no right to a third line. Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Your third is a replica. _________(?) 53 [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14130	No, no... technique works well.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14131	Nermina Kapetanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Marković, you have a terrible problem talking to an anesthesiologist. An anesthesiologist and reanimatologist is a person who knows absolutely and what he does, and what he says, and what he writes. You said ultimately and I wrote the same seconds, it's going to say what we say, one. Two, tell Mr. Džaferović of a nation, the Bosnian people are not one of the people but the constituent people of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the Croatian and Serbian people. And three, I think you're a person who absolutely doesn't know political culture, a person who's trying to cause unrest and disorder in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that represents the impotence and weakness of your political party from which you come.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14133	Safer Demirović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14134	I thank the Honorable Chairman and welcome all present. Here's an excuse to be very brief and I'll try to be. An interesting topic, a very broad discussion, a very, very, very missed few things, and I sometimes wonder at myself how we, and what we're doing here, the way we're looking at things. In the 21st century, we academic people have to embarrass ourselves, talk about whether someone's right and what they should call their own language, it's unacceptable for me. This information might have to tell us what is the state of primary education, what is the state of secondary education, whether this reform should be done, what is there, is wrong. The main thing is, the main accent in the language, the language study, is something that we, which is perfectly normal, civilized, human, that we, that we respect each other and say you talk like that, and that's your choice, okay,... thing. I have a need to give just two, three examples of how we sort things out for ourselves. The Catholic Centre is often mentioned, for example, the Catholic School Centre in Tuzla is attended by both Bošnjak and Srbin, education in Croatian, no one is bothered by it. Of course, people want a good high school education to their children, they've sent their children to that school. Also, the International High School in Tuzla Education in Bosnian, Srbin, Hrvat, wants a good technical education, but it is important to their child, or whoever has the opportunity to send their child to school where the language is English, German, so the thing is the quality of education system. And these things about language, I mean that, that's what we're discussing right now, it's really me, it's really unimaginable to me. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14135	Thank you. This concludes the discussion on this agenda point. 54 Before we move to point 11. I suggest that we bring together the debate on points 11 to 13 since it is about consent and ratification. Please, let's vote on unification. So 39 votes - 28, 11 abstentions. We have the entity and the general majority, we're uniting the debate into these two points. Ad. 11. - 13. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss, I'm closing this agenda item. Before I move to the 14th point, I have to give you a 60-minute break, which is your break to know how to prepare for the vote, because the technical services have to prepare an adequate gym because of the request for secrecy of the next item of the agenda. So this is also a break for lunch and preparation for the vote and preparation for the point... So at 3:30, we're back to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-06-27-0.u14137	Please proceed with your work. We move to a statement on the agenda of the 32nd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. We vote on the first item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes from the 31st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the record. For 36, no problem, no abstentions. There's an entity majority of both entities. I'm finding out that we've adopted the record. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the marking of small arms, light weapons and ammunition – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading), shortened procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 32 for, 4 against, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the law was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 4. – Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 27 for, 4 against, 5 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority from both entities. 55 I agree that we have passed the Law, but in fact the Report of this Joint Commission and we have adopted the Law on Administrative Procedure, the text agreed, the Law on Amendments and the Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure. Moving to point 5. – Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 – applicant: State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 31, you don't mind, five abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I understand we adopted this report. We're going to point six. – Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2015 – applicant: Office for the Review of Appeals. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 16 for, 11 against. From the Federation of BiH 12 for, from Republika Srpska 4 for, there is not enough entity majority. We don't have another round of voting, we don't have any colleagues here so this stays for the next session. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska's entities, so the vote on this conclusion is off, right, the alignment will be later. Glasmo, we are now going to item 7 of the agenda – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 – applicant: Ministry of Security of BiH. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 25 for, against 8, abstentions 3, a sufficient entity majority of both entities. I understand that we received this information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015. We move to item 8 of the agenda – Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's state of public responsibility on 31.12.2015 – submiter: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 4 against, 8 abstentions, enough entity majority. I understand that we received information on the state of public debt in Bosnia and Herzegovina on 31.12.2015. We move to item 9 of the agenda – Information on missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Opinion on the ICMP initiative on the takeover of competence by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. 56 Vote now. 26 for, no objection, against four abstentions, a sufficient entity majority from both entities. 21 Federation of BiH, 5 Republika Srpska. So we received this information about missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Point 10, we move to item 10 of the agenda – Information on the application of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with an emphasis on studying the national group of subjects and on language studies throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. You can vote. It's here for 8, versus 18, there's no general majority, so this information hasn't been received. The abstentions are 10, so 8 for. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We will, we will. At the request of the SBB Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote, re-vote, item 10 of the re-election. You can vote. So 4 for, 20 against, abstention 12, there's no general majority. I find this information... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
