ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1575	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who follow the work of our House and representatives of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of whom in the order of Bosniak 4, Croatian 5 and Serbian 5, the people. Delagat Fahrudin Radončić is not able to attend the session for justified reasons. As you are told to call for a session and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda for delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. We remind you that together with the invitation to the 17th session of the House of Nations, you are also sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form were submitted by delegate Sifet Podžić to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić; delegate Mario Karamatić to the foreign trade and economic relations minister of BiH, Mr Mirko Šarović and delegate Ljilja Zovko to the BiH Defence Minister, Ms Marina Pendeš. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure of this announcement were delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers on which the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the BiH Public TV Service to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Article 155(1). Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers, so I give my word to my distinguished colleague, Mr. Sifet Podžić. Here you go, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1576	The Honorable Chairman and esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Given that my delegate question was referred earlier on on the matter of waste disposal at the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the issue of Trade Gora, that the same issue was referred by the Council of Ministers to a respected colleague from the House of Representatives, Mr Bojić, and that I heard the reply of the Council of Ministers' Chairman and that, as far as I can see, he formed a commission, so I am glad if the issue at least encouraged the commission to be formed after 8 months. And here I am also to say that as a member of the committee together with my colleagues Rodić and Mario, I also received an invitation to the first meeting of the commission the day after tomorrow from Mrs Golić, so I am giving up the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1577	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. Mr. Chairman, you've heard Mr. Podžić's position on the issue, I assume there's no problem for you and the answer, uh, there's no need to report at this point, even though you've prepared it. Mr. Chairman, no need? Thank you very much. Let's move on with our work, say to the distinguished delegate, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1578	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to Mr. Šarović, the chairman of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which refers to the GEF, i.e. to the Global Environmental Fund. BiH has been a member of the Global Environment Fund since 2001, the foreign trade and economic relations minister is so-called a political focal point without which, i.e. Without whose written consent no project financed by the Global Environment Fund from the area of environmental protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be approved or implemented. I would ask Mr. Šarović, as far as he can, orally to answer the following question, and he will probably need a written answer, since the question is quite accurate, the question is – which projects did he sign a letter of support on which criteria were allocated, how much did he get which entity, who specifically in which entity and for which projects were intended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1579	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. Two minutes will be used by the honourable minister, Mr Mirko Šarović. Here you go, Mr. Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1580	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to greet you all. Since the question that has been delivered to both the chairman and I has only been referred to as a question about the Global Environmental Fund, the GEF with no specific details, perhaps this is an opportunity just to say a few sentences in the short two minutes, and to the honourable MP, we will deliver the answer in particular and in writing, within a decent time. By 2015, Bosnia and Herzegovina has done 12 GEF national projects totaling $22m, and has participated or participated in 11 regional projects worth more than $70m and is a grant, as is known. And currently, activities are under way to implement several GEF projects in the first row: Biodiversity Protection Project in the Lithuanian field, it takes place through the GEF, as well as the project called – Enerbija from biomass for creation... and energy security that takes place in the area of Srebrenica, Milić and Bratunac municipality. The GEF is funding Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 3m-dollar national project with the GEF grant of forest and mountain areas still under way, and the implementation agency is the World Bank. In addition to these, it is currently implemented... a state portrait called – Management of the Neretva and Trebisnica Rivers, which takes place in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, and the total amount of GEF grants is 8 million dollars, of which 6 million is for Bosnia and Herzegovina. All the other details, I'd say, the exact answers to the specific questions that you, the honourable MP, have asked will be written in writing, in writing. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1581	Thank you, Mr. Šarović, especially for these two minutes precisely. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1582	I am pleased with the answer, and as I am a river, it is not possible to respond to this in such a short period of time, especially not without preparation and serious analysis, so I am still asking for a written answer to be delivered to me. And here, by the way, I've been given the last question, which I've referred to the Honorable Minister, the written answer to my question, very large, very exhausted, and I thank you for that. And here I would ask, I have another 30 seconds to ask one question and a college, so according to the Rules of Procedure, we can ask questions highly presented by written means, as the most legislative body in the state. But I would ask you to urinate with an esteemed high representative to come to the session sometime to allow us at least once a year to ask him a oral question, or since I have some dilemmas that I would like to talk to a respected gentleman or you really want me to write him the pens, so I can send him, and here I think no problem is that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1583	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. I am sure that your letter would be more effective, given your style, I am sure that we would achieve more results than if we were to address it, but what I can remind you, in the light of the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, is a member of 155th in relation to oral issues, which in attitude 1 says very clearly – Delagati can orally ask questions to the Council of Ministers of BiH, or to an individual member of the Council of Ministers of BiH at the beginning of each first session of the House in the month before the debate on the agenda with a direct TV transmission. This is what our Rules of Procedure has solved, everything else I trust in your ingenuity, and I have no doubt that you will succeed. Thank you. The word now has a distinguished delegate, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1584	Thank you very much, President. That's a nice greeting to all those present. My question is to the Ministry of Defence, or to Ms. Marina Pendeš, if it is possible to provide me with information in writing on the number of persons with disabilities with a name, last name, rank, and under what law can the active military person be disabled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1585	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. The word has been given to the Honorable Minister Marina Pendeš. Here you go, Mrs. Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1586	I thank the president. Dear Mrs. Zovko, I will try to provide you with an answer as soon as possible in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1587	Since there's an agreement you won't be replicating a respected minister now. Thank you. Delegate Dragutin Rodić received an answer to the delegation's question in writing from BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović. Are you satisfied with your answer, Mr. Rodić? You'll have to make a statement for the record. The word has been given by the honorable Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1588	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I am satisfied with the answer, but the answer shows that we will have problems in realising this and I hope that all possible measures that are available to us will be used to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina first and foremost, and especially our trade and what comes from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1589	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Now we're going to the session agenda. For the 17th session, the following is proposed: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of delegate Ljilja Zovko for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-1017/16, from 01.04.2016; 5 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-637/16 of 22.02.2016; 4. Special report: "Accessibility of the work space of the BiH legislative authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to persons with disabilities" – applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01,02,03-12-501/16, since 10.02.2016; 5. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual journeys of citizens, No 01,02-05-2-1319/15, of 15.10.2015. Is anyone answering for a word, is there any suggestion that this agenda should be changed and complemented? I remind you, this is a harmonised agenda for the House of People's College. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's been reported for questioning. Given, therefore, that it is a harmonised agenda, it is considered adopted without voting on it. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate, and is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a record statement. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour, against none, there was no abstention. From Federation 9 for, from Republika Srpska 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the record from the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The request of delegate Ljilja Zovko for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1592	So here, just to talk to you so much that the change is very short, very important and I hope that you will adopt a hasty procedure, and refer to a very important parliamentary body, the Committee for Judicial Exams, which is one of the most important among other self-financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1593	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We're discussing the urgency of the procedure. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. So we are voting on the procedure, whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 were for, for 10 delegates, against 3 delegates, one delegate was abstained. From Federation 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the request for a review of the bill on the completion of the Law on Salary and Efforts in BiH institutions has been adopted by an urgent procedure. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Please, who's answering for the word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of BiH following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 were for, against three delegates, 1 delegate was abstained. From Federation 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions has been adopted in an urgent procedure. In light of the adoption of this Act, we are now moving to a statement on the proposal for a conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted at the 24th session, held on 04.04.2015, which reads: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments in BiH institutions by an urgent procedure. I'm asking you to initiate a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 delegates were for, against three delegates, one delegate was abstained. From Federation 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, no one abstained. There's a general and entity majority, so I figure this conclusion has been adopted. We move to work on three agendas, 7 Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH At the last 16th session, held on 22.02.2016.(?) in the year, the People's House did not adopt a request to consider the draft Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, nor of a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Accordingly, the draft Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH was decided to be discussed by regular legislative procedure at the first next session. This is a Plenary reading of the bill, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, and first, a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have also received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has found that the bill does not fully comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which is in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions. He asked the BiH Council of Ministers for the shortest time to provide an explanation of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, which will contain the principles on which the Bill was based and which are missing from the draft law and from the Directorate for European Integration of BiH to deliver an opinion on the harmonisation of the Law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH with European legislation. The BiH Directorate for European Integration has delivered a Opinion on the Consistency of the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH with European legislation, and the Ministry of Communications and Transport has provided an explanation of the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH. The Constitutional Commission of the People's House found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications adopted the principles of the bill. At the 26th session, held on 17 March 2016, the House of Representatives adopted a draft law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH by emergency procedure. First, I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Commission, if he wishes. As in the report, thank you. I now give the word to the Proposer of the Law. Mr. Chairman, do you want a word? As in the law, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go. Mr. Mario Karamatić has the word. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 8 Here we are the Management Board of the Public TV System persistently harassing with the transitional provisions that should have been solved there are years and years. So, this is about changing an article that will allow the payment to be extended until 30.06 this year, which we have already extended to New Year's, last one that has passed, and this has expired in that year before and the Management Board of the Public TV System should have ended it long ago because it is about transitional provisions, and in the imposed Law that we are talking about today, the Law on the Public TV System more than clearly states that the Management Board of the Public TV System determines how to charge the tv fee, so it is more or less clear to me. In the meantime, we had some conclusions here at the House of Peoples that were also on the Council of Ministers, so this became a more political issue than technically, which is what it really is. So it turns out someone's trying to take down the public BHRT service, i.e. BHRT, that this, yes, I would just point out this opportunity, means that within the BHRT, there are eight hundred and some employees, at least a hundred employees of the corporation that will never be established, who are on the payroll. Now that's one of the things that makes BHRT very difficult to work for. Why won't it be adopted? So very simple, because the respected Minister Matanović's digitisation equipment donated to Republika Srpska's TV, and the Republika Srpska Assembly made a very clear conclusion that Republika Srpska's tv cannot give its equipment to anyone, so that the corporate process is never going to be established. What I advocate all the time is that I and my colleagues and from the order of the Croatian people and colleagues from other clubs, we sit down and systematically resolve and pass a new whole law, which would enable the operation of both the Public TV Service and that would enable all the peoples in this country to be satisfied with the functioning of the Public TV Service. I, unfortunately, must say that one nation is not satisfied. And here, in these seven minutes that I have left, I'm going to elaborate on one of the freshest examples of why he's not satisfied. A few days ago, the verdict to Mr Radovan Karadžić for war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina... was sentenced to more than 40, to 40 years in prison,... the verdict has a appeal procedure, I am not going to enter the scale of the verdict, so that there is no other debate that is not here today. The central daily Federal Television, which is part of the Public TV System, lasted half an hour, began with statements by five Bošnjak, published a report all two times mentioning the crime that the Bošnjak and Hrvat were mentioned, reports came from Srebrenica, Prijedor, Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Pala. The mass casualties of Hrvat were mentioned in "Dnevnik" Federal Television as part of a 18-second crime in Brishevo, and in letters by Bishop Komarica about the persecutions of Hrvat and other crimes of 29 seconds. In a series of statements, starting with BiH's respected presidency, Bakir Izetbegović, through Serbian politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are no statements by any of the bh Hrvat, as well as any political party or association. On the day of the first-degree verdict, and the tragic events that we have been through, were also tragically passed on television, which should be theirs, in an entity in which they are a constituent people, were represented in the “Dnevnik” of Federal Television exactly 47 seconds. And the end of the "Dnevnik" of FTV, and the "Dnevnik" of BHRT begins for almost an hour, on the day of the publication of that verdict, since the topic is obviously of the interest of the Bosnian Herzegovina public, reactions and statements begin from The Hag, the interview of partners, participants, 5 Bošnjak one after the other, followed by reactions from Srebrenica – 6, then Vlasenica – 2 Srbin, 3 Bošnjak. Reactions from Pal and Banja Luka, normal people said they were not satisfied with the verdict, but neither in the Palace nor in Banja Luka. The distinguished BHRT gentlemen found no Hrvat to say anything. Foca... Srbin and Bošnjak with signs of how many people were killed, burned mosques and so on. A report from Prijedor similar to the same, with a Bosniak association reaction in place, an interview with one of the prisoners of the Bosniak camp. From the Sanski Most reaction of Bosniak victims, you will not believe the key is mentioned, in the key report they mentioned there were Hrvat among the victims, that's all. It continues with statements by the Imams, the Bošnjak from the Association of the Dead and Shehid families, a report from Sarajevo, of course, the most extensive with citizens' reactions. Then the guest of the "Dnevnik" of almost an hour 9 Mr. Jovan Divjak, who is not a Hrvat, then reports live from Belgrade by Nataša Kandić, and then comments on the verdict of Mr. Chairman Bakir Izetbegović, then Ramiz Salkić, then Milorad Dodik, Petar Đokić, pay attention even to the US Embassy's opinion, is good with Karadžić a little bit and with NATO, he also hooked up with America, but I think that Hrvat are more relevant than the US Embassy. All in all an hour of thread, nothing about the suffering of Hrvat, their strategies, the reactions of associations or bh politicians who come from the order of the Croatian people or at least one, Bog forgive me, a citizen from the order of the Croatian people, so they didn't do it either. This is not the kind of public tv service that Hrvat need. I urge you once again to enter this topic seriously, to create a new Law on Public TV Service, so that these things will not be repeated against anyone, according to any people, because this is a disgrace. If the measure of journalism is true, timely and complete reporting, where integrity is here, see if anyone can at least try to defend this. It should be television that should be paid by the Croatian people in this form, dear gentlemen, not in any other yes. We are in favour of the survival of the Public TV Service, but in a way that everyone is satisfied, we are satisfied for Bosnia and Herzegovina, everyone must be satisfied, it is a very simple thing, we are also for the EU, but we must be all happy in the EU, but we cannot constantly break things over our knees and vote, this is not a good way, what is done by making party or national public broadcasters is not a good way, and those who make it water and public TV services fail. I appeal once again, first of all, to the gentlemen and the Council of Ministers and to the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, to take this issue seriously and to make a solution so that I never get to take this kind of information publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1596	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. The debate is still open. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1597	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I welcome everyone present at this session. And not only is the agenda narrow, so to speak, which opens up the possibility for us today, therefore, to discuss this important issue in substance, but it is not so certain that this topic deserves, therefore, a serious debate in this House. Well, here, motivated by that, I'm going to say a few things that I think are important, first because of the functioning of the BHRT system, and then because of the true and objective information to the public about this very important issue, because I think, before I give some grades, that here in public media space, a story is created who is against something and who is for it. And in fact, it avoids a serious story about the real state of the BHRT system. And really, I'm going to start with the evaluations given by the Management Board of Systems, Information, first regular Annual Report, and we've been looking for special information and we've got it, so let me read it to all of us so we know what the evaluation of those who run this system is. So he says -- Bosnia and Herzegovina's RTV, BHRT acts in terms of complex, economic, political opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and does not implement the law, not implementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, "Official Messenger", number 78/05, that means 2005. 10 And now I would remind us here in the way that this Law was passed. So this Law was passed, and I was then in the parliamentary benches, in a way that when we talk about the representativeness of the constituent peoples, no representative of the order of the Croatian people, not only of one party, but of any party in the House of Representatives voted for the Law, or he had his position and suggestions on how to regulate that Law. All the MPs in the House of Peoples were also against it. The active vital national interest, all the judges of the Croatian people were against and again the law came into force. Just so we know the relations in this country and the parameters. And it's been 11 years since then. Today we have a situation, so BHRT is down, as far as I know, close to 6 million, according to this official data., we have a situation that the annual budget is somewhere near 40 or 39 million, and we have a situation that within that estimate 50%,... up here, down here, goes to gross wages, and maybe 15% on software content. So we're saying that we need a serious debate, not a politicization of this issue. I opened this debate here together with my colleagues on the committee, and here are some of the conclusions, and later, which we concluded here together, so on our side was an initiative in time for these things to be seriously considered. So, this model of charge, which, by the way, according to this Act, Article 18 establishes the Committee of the System and not Parliament, we only determine by law the amount of tax, the fee. So this model is spent, dear friends. It is now not already functioning on a significant part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, and it is not only in one space, but in general, and to extend it today, it is so spent that it will continue to collapse the Public TV system. That's what we need to know. And we have responsibility for that, if we support further-consuming models that have led to this situation which this analysis itself says is a financial collapse, and we also have responsibility as legislators who have passed this Law, to enable the smooth, serious financial business of BHRT, and to be partners in the Business Committee and to help it ensure smooth functioning. Here, that's the position, I immediately declare myself, which I represent here, and no political points to get out of this. And the fact is, then, here as an opposition representative, I would also like to say that we see which is the parliamentary majority that has established the compositions of the committee, both at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at the level of the entities and this Committee of the Systems functions as a sum of the entity compositions of the committee and has 12 members. So seeing these things, if there's any responsibility for that part, we can't all be as responsible. So, of these serious legal problems and assessments, where it is clear here that these three BHRT services, Federal and RS have not achieved imagined programme complementarity. It was the meaning of reform and of this law. No corporation has been formed to free the emitters from technical and administrative, marketing logistics and BHRT becomes the hostage of these relationships. So the charge is done by entity services, BHRT has no direct impact on the charge, the charge is weak, the losses are so much that the system collapses and even the extension of this Act cannot solve this... So, in order for us, as responsible people, to do something seriously together, this was expected by both the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of the System, to offer a new effective model that would be accepted in this country and paid. Because this country is necessary and necessary public, independent, credible, plural, autonomial in terms of politics, systems and services, and for that matter here I publicly advocate, and I think it's high time that we don't put our heads in the sand here anymore, and we don't put things under the carpet, but to take this problem seriously and responsibly. And even if this Law passes today, it's valid until 30.06, what have we solved? That's less than three months, what have we got? So, the charge drop is so drastic, you see from the data here from the report, now it's total somewhere in the Federation of about 400 and some subscribers, in Republika Srpska 200 and some thousands, just about 700 thousand, and only the number of households is a million and a half. So why don't we introduce that a million-and-a-half households pay for a TV subscription on a fair basis and have a stable funding? In just a year and a half, over 30% of the number of subscribers who pay the subscription fell. These are the data contained in this report, not my data. 11 So it's high time we found that model together and we have responsibility as legislators. But it is also clear, dear friends, that without the fundamental reform of this system, without a fundamental reform that will include media pluralisation, so we have European directives, we have a European Parliament resolution, we have a common position on our Presidency of this Parliament with the European Parliament, that we need to ensure equal representation of official languages in public systems programmes. Now nobody's talking about any divisions. And don't seriously argue about this question immediately in the context that someone wants any division. I am personally against any division, non-discipline that will further weaken all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I am also against any manipulation of the public system and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will go to harm anyone, in this case here is one constituent nation. And my opinion is, therefore, that we have responsibility for these conclusions that we have established, we have forwarded them to the Council of Ministers. According to my information, the Council of Ministers forwarded it to the competent ministry, where at six points we actually defined the whole thing. And we need... We need the core relationship of the Council of Ministers, so it is not logical for the Council of Ministers to propose a ruling vote here and vote against, by the parliamentary majority against the solutions proposed by the Council of Ministers. We have that all the time. And that someone from the opposition is then expected to save that parliamentary majority. Well, at least let's, uh, spread that fog a little bit, so let's see whose position it is. So I'm not the one who's going to be the one... to turn off today's light on BHRT, right here publicly speaking, no matter how dissatisfied he is now, and the public, because we need to allow him to work until the moment he's essentially transformed. But I'm also not going to hold a candle like this and be part of the responsibility for a very bad condition, as the BHRT leadership has assessed. And we don't have a choice, we don't have a choice, we have a choice, but to get here a motion to change the law, this law that will include, not just a deadline for charging the fee, but a fundamental model of functioning, the establishment of a corporation, rationalization. Well, it doesn't make sense, with all due respect to every man who's employed, his rights, the contributions they make, that a thousand people work with this kind of budget, and with this kind of charge, and with this effect. Take a comparative number of people should work, how much in the program, how much in the infrastructure, how much in charge, and we'll see. Now that's what we need here, one full, objective and serious report, that we can make one logistics and sound support of it, but of course it's not happening, what Mr. Karamatić said, that strategic, political, informative programs are placed on public TV broadcasters the way we saw it, here and which are illustrated. I think it no longer benefits anyone, and it is certain, therefore, that no one can defend that position and legitimate demands anymore, not just representatives of the Croatian people, but objective analysts and proposals, and here are European requirements, to reform this public TV system. Reform models can be discussed, it can be more channels in the official languages, there can be more centres, there can be one independent monitoring of the program and a number of other things, but don't let your brother continue to delay it and wrestling around the date of this another 2-3 months, and we see that the charge has dropped more than 30% in less than a year by the number of subscribers, that the losses accumulate, that the minimum conditions these people don't have down, not just for wages, but to achieve quality of their professional and responsible functions and formations, from infrastructures, reporting cars, digitalisation and everything else. It should be here in focus, to help them do it. So, I think we've replaced the thesis, the House of Peoples must not be part of that approach. I think the only conclusion can be to give the Council of Ministers a time limit for a consistent proposal for change, which has been requested by the BHRT itself, to put here on the table and to begin to resolve this very important issue in full and responsibly. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1598	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. So, appreciating that you've never broken time before, I've taken that fact into account and I haven't interrupted you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1599	Mr. Ognjen Tadić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1600	Thank you, Deputy Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests. So this is what our people would say, an extremely cornering topic. From whatever point of view you are going to start this topic and try to speak adequately about television space and this instrument of public speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including in the region, you risk not to come to any finality in your discussion and basically repeat stories that have repeatedly repeated, because what we have today in the media space is very far from what we all imagine or learn when we say television, especially when we say Public Service. So I'm going to try to focus on just a few thesises, what I want to talk about today, in the discussion of the principles of this law, or the proposal to supplement this law and the amendments, and just given that we are, here through the previous discussion, heard that this is not really just a question of how to determine how a subscription is paid, but that this is a question of many things. First, let me say that the SDS, represented here by Mr. Darko Babalj and I, has long proposed a model that represents stable funding. And he is a model that implies commitment to Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. And no SDS has ever changed its position on this issue, so it's not hard for us to come forward here, regardless of any previous decisions. In addition, our House of Representatives Club took the same position when it came to the consideration of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of this Law, which went there by emergency procedure. Why budget financing? Well, precisely because of stability, precisely because editorial policy doesn't have to be regional or so to say national courting in a way that is now partly expected of it, so that, as a result, we have a situation for someone to legitimize their non-payment of the TV subscription. The billability of a TV subscription in Republika Srpska is not low at all, even on a much greater advantage until recently, and now the advantage exists, may be slightly reduced due to economic and social opportunities, rather than in the Federation of BiH. I'm talking about percentages, I'm not talking about the number of subscribers, given that there are still more households, according to esteemed counterpart Raguž, in the Federation of BiH. However, it is not proportionate and satisfying to the programme that we see, either on TVRS or on BHTV or on FTV. Therefore, this funding model should essentially be reviewed,... it seems to us to edit it in the same way that funding models are arranged for everything else that is related to this structure, for the public sector, and that is the budget. Is that gonna make funding less? Probably will. But I don't see a mutual relationship between the quality of the program that we see and the amounts that are displayed as spent amounts for that programme. In particular, I don't see a mutual relationship between so many employees and the number of people we see in the program, so either through various productions, or through the representation of the faces themselves in various roles, by the leaders, I don't know, the news reader and everything else. So there's something disproportionate about it and there's some kind of systemic error that's probably talking about buying public money, so citizens' money, some kind of media support for certain political structures. 13 And therefore with full responsibility I tell you to stop funding this system now, he will not stop. It won't stop, because the policies that have power will find a way to provide him with funding, at least one of them, who are the protagonists of certain policies on public tv services. It can stop some commercial television, and the workers can split up here and there, but this sure as hell won't stop. Now the question now arises why some political parties prefer the Public TV system, regardless of that love seems very close, whether some authorities are in the coalition or not, and given above all whether they can affect their programming policies, rather than whether they like childcare, rather than what they like, say, health care, than what they like, say, cops, judges and a lot of some, for me, I know, maybe more inexcusable employees in this system than what they are public broadcasters. Look, I'm free to say this because I know that my treatment isn't going to change in those services, even to praise them, because I know who's giving them these policies. However, we can attack them as much as I want, I can praise them, the treatment of the political option I represent will be the same, because they depend on the structure of political nature. That's probably, these political structures will have to explain to their voters, and that's not my problem. What made this funding model fall? Well, I don't agree with Mr. Karamatić, these reasons he says they've already done their job. For these reasons, this model has never even worked on the whole part of the Federation of BiH territory, in these reasons that Mr Karamatić speaks of, ever. In broad brieg, it wasn't the same charging as in, I don't know, the tall one, never, and it probably won't be. So those reasons have done theirs a long time ago, they're not fresh. Fresh reasons are for poverty in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those people who paid the most for these subscriptions today often have nothing to live on. And when they think about whether to pay the subscription or to have bread in seven days, it will be determined for bread in seven days. And if we're real politicians, when we settle that question, all the others will be solved. And we know the causes of the state of the economy, in both its entities, what it is and why it is. And in the end, I don't want anyone to convince me about the need for a public TV system like this or whatever, here's the right to tell you. That there are some parameters to measure hatred, hate to measure in Bosnia and Herzegovina on today, and to ask those three services to strike for half a year, to do nothing, I guarantee you that in half a year there will be much less hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Much less, because unfortunately they are too often meant by the pilars of hate language, both in inter-party and in international, and in inter-religious, and inter-social, and in any other respect. The war didn't stop for them, and it looks like they'll never stop. This kind of editorial policy is why it's something that blocks our brains and doesn't allow them to deal with questions about the future, but keeps bringing us back to the past that we can't change. And that's why it's such a diary, as a result of these decisions or decisions of this court or that court, and that's why it's going to be in the future, as long as this exists the way it does. I would therefore, without intending to draw any conclusions, because this is not the time, but since members of the Council of Ministers are present, especially leadership, to draw attention to the following issues. Firstly, the model of sustainable funding I think cannot be different from what exists and for everything else that is related to the public system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the budget is the most stable. Will there be less resources? It probably will, but I guarantee that with the rationalization, which is necessary, and for eight years I've been a journalist, it'll be enough money. I'll tell you that in the war we produced serial programs, not a million, not two, but I don't know if ten thousand were the budget of these televisions, and the dramas were produced, films made documentary, like this and like that. It was working differently, it was doing more rationally. And then we talked about someone stealing something and I know everything. Secondly, you need to get as much off the back of the people's obligations as possible. I hear these suggest a special tax for themselves. Well, that's amazing. So let's introduce a special tax of 14 for teachers, more important teachers to us than cameramen, installers, drivers, cablers, cameramen, etc., with all due respect, these are my colleagues, I know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about priorities in this country, this country is not going to get better for the media, it's going to get better for education. So, the last thing about programming policy, anyone here to hear, anyone here to hear, to listen here to some diary or editor, and to say you shouldn't talk to this or that people, to this or that event, you'll have no right to interfere with editorial policy. And when you ask them, well, why is that your attitude you're saying, they say, so it's not up to me, that's what the others said I had to say. Who's the other one? I think it's clear in this country who's second and who's the one in hate language trying to maintain the atmosphere of political relations that suits those who are getting up to manage the editorial policy of public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1601	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Is there more? The word is Mrs. Zdenka Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1602	I welcome everyone and our guests, the minister, the chairman. We've heard exposure, here's those who disagree, and I really don't agree that for months, for years, there's been a solution waiting to sort out the public system. But I, as an envoy of a people who are not satisfied, and I must express the attitude of the people from which I come, with the editorial policy of public service. Honestly, I'm more of an information show in the Federation, or BHRT, than, frankly, than I can judge from RTRS, but I'm definitely a representative of a people who aren't happy. The other night, I'm not going to repeat anything my colleagues said from our club, the other night I was watching on a private television show by a prominent director from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who recently won a award in Berlin, saying that he doesn't watch TV, doesn't want to watch. He's a returnee, he's back from France with his kids, he says I don't like that policy of editors or journals, because it's hard, as he said, a nigger from whom, I don't want my kids to listen, turn off the TV and not watch, says a respected director. Then you can imagine how happy these others are. Not to repeat all of this, I'm going to say what's best of all. Now Mostar appears as a topic because there should be an amendment to the Election Law and most often there will be representatives who will talk about Mostar from what we call the citizens' parties. And at one point a chess room appeared on the hill above Mostar and it was a way to attract our public services and to come and say look what was up, it was a chess room that wanted to be presented as if it were a fascist feature. I don't really know how long it takes for someone to say that the chess shop isn't since yesterday, it's not 20 years, it's not 100 years, it's a lot more. It's one nation, it represents one people, it's not a religious symbol, it's the chess of a people, and it can't be represented as something so negative. We can talk about anything else, but that the chess room, which represents the people, in this way, ugly way, shows up on public television, can't, and we can't be satisfied with it. Please understand once more that this is something that belongs to my people. I don't mind when I go across Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in Republika Srpska, and in parts where most Bosniak people live, I absolutely don't care what's on the hills, it's shown some people and I respect it. I really want us not to be offended like this in what we saw on the hill above Mostar. But it was a way to attract. It is the only one, only then will the Public Service come and talk about a part of Mostar that is otherwise not talked about by anything or Herzegovina. I come from Central Bosnia. When did you hear something, something on Central Bosnia's television, if it wasn't negative? 15 there isn't. It doesn't really exist. On the diary, since this is the most visible part, the most seen is the central journals, meaning in the evening, with all due respect to the workers of Tuzla, I absolutely don't want to say anything about them, but they can't be ten-15 minutes persistent every night the Tuzla workers, as if no one else has a problem. That's more for me for the canton, because that's the problem that caused the canton. They say she challenged the state, and then she says you're it. We didn't, we didn't make a problem in Tuzla, we didn't make a problem in the coke shop, we didn't make a problem in any of those poor people who go out looking for their rights. They're looking for them in their canton. But there are others who have problems. Or why always just problems? We thus drive young people from Bosnia and Herzegovina. If he says that, as I said at the beginning, a respected director, there's nothing to show that he should live in this country. I can't watch, there's nothing on TV, on the journals, to say, yes, here you should stay. And even here we do nothing, but we do ourselves, so we bring the populist laws quickly, so here we have to correct them today, because they are not right, and we will correct them in order, because that is not how we have brought them. Purely populist, I guess we can get in touch with the Tuzlani workers and all the other workers, and then we'll figure out what we're gonna do, and we'll form the dependent committees to watch independent committees, so we'll do it ourselves. We have a point about people with disabilities, and I could ask the Minister of Human Rights every time, because I have no one else to ask questions about human rights violations that are not on that television. I have to extract data from the Conscious Health Organization as much as there are children in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are suffering from specific diseases or rare diseases, and people are just looking for a register, I could wonder how when it comes from the Central Bosnian patient here in the canton for oncology, that he must first go to a cure, buy it somewhere that is not in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so bring it with him so that it can be performed, etc., that oncology treatment. That's not what you're talking about. Or, if there's anything positive, if there's anything that could be said, here's the state that did it, but the young people were disgusted by the story of politics, the politicians were disgusted, the parties were disgusted, everything seemed to be that this young man got out of here. So, we're not happy and I can't vote, no matter what we're talking about today just these three months, because for years it doesn't seem like anything, and I'm asking that really this editorial policy, yes, and I have to mention that recently the same statement, the colleagues who are ours, make up the parliamentary majority, and, no, it says, you'll never get the third channel. I'm not asking, I have the right to have television in Croatian. I don't ask him to give it to me, I will. And so long as it's not arranged the way it's arranged in Europe or at least that I have the right as they have national minorities or some other community, I will always be against, as an envoy of this people.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1603	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1604	Ladies and gentlemen. I feel like I haven't read the agenda properly. Before I say why, I want to remind you that this House has on the agenda for the third time something relating to the TV system, that the Commission for Foreign and Other Policies has discussed this three times, proposed conclusions and that we have started again today from the beginning. The item of the agenda is to change one attitude and one member and there is one order, and here the four of you held a debate on the programme policy of the system, on 16 editorial policies, on divisions, on love, on everything and everything in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think that's necessary. And that's what you're saying, mostly against this attitude. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, we don't spread the debate where it's not necessary. We were all talking about what you were already talking about here today by this dot. We'll have to do it one more time. We morati also have to go to the Commission, and out of the four participants in the debate, three are from the Commission who spoke, and I am from the Commission, here comes another member of the Commission. We discussed it all. My suggestion is to stick to the agenda, so that you people who don't want to vote don't talk here for an hour and ten minutes about what we've already told you. So, I don't know who you're talking to, the ones who are recording, the public, who, from your discussions, could not conclude at all what we're talking about today, and we're talking about extending the deadline for payment of the subscription. And you don't have to explain long and wide why you don't want to vote. Don't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1605	Mr. Radmanović, I will bear in mind that you asked the College, or me as chairman, for a certain kind of intervention. So, I can only tell you one thing, and that is to discuss this law in first reading, so it is the principles and reasons for the adoption of this Law. They certainly include the views of delegates when it comes to their relationship as to why the existing system has or has not functioned and whether it needs to be extended. And thus none of the messengers came forth from the delegates, pardoning, did not go out of subject, nor were the terms created that I should take any man's word. I ask you on behalf of other delegates, therefore, as no one limits your right to discussion or its contents, that other delegates get that kind of collegiate equality when it comes to your guidelines on how someone will discuss it. The word now has Mr. Martin Raguž, who answered the line. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1606	Thank you. Well, I think that Mr. Radmanović, in his brief debate, did not offer any argument in assessing the debates of the MPs who could connect to his assessment that we missed the debate. It is up to the agenda to amend the Law on the Public TV System and the principles to be discussed. I devoted my entire debate to this, documenting the real state that exists there and the failure of this way of solving for which as we should raise our hand today. And Mr. Radmanović, don't argue with me, as I didn't dispute your right to tell you that it's okay today because you politically control it through entity TV systems, and then the debate from Republika Srpska and confrontation now we all need to share together in a way that doesn't matter, because we are talking here with arguments about the representation of the constituent peoples, the way laws are passed, the collapse of the system, the failure to meet the essential requirements of the reform that BHRT itself has given. And the fact is that we had a good debate thanks to you, and I respect it very much, and on the Commission and we have opened the debate and so we should continue. And we are all here today to ask ourselves why these conclusions that we have discussed do not produce an effect, but here today we need to technicalally extend again, and let things remain, we can also continue to debate on commissions and homes. And that's why we have a true responsibility as legislators not to stick our head in the sand, but to come up with a serious solution and our discussions are in that direction, and we don't have to agree on everything. Here, thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1607	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. He's got a word for his injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1608	Mr. Chairman, when you comment on the debate and you have to answer for a word like we do, not from where we are to give a lecture on what's right and what's wrong. So this is the House of People who has their Rules of Procedure. That's why I called. But while I'm standing, if you'll excuse me, I have two sentences to say about what Mr. Raguž was talking about. I thank Mr. Raguž for commending me for making a contribution to these discussions, and I will give them to the future. I'm just reminding you, and the others, that I never said it was okay in the system and I won't say it in the future, because I know a lot about it and I can talk about it, I just reminded you, and I remind you again, we're discussing a change of attitude (2) of article 42, which contains one row, to extend the funding this way until the end of the sixth month and nothing else. And I'm standing by that we shouldn't have had a comprehensive debate today about the tv system we can, and we'll probably have it for different things in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1609	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. So, let me say, at first there was a word, not even a line. So one word is enough to create the world, let alone one order. And I must tell you, respecting your opinion, therefore, that article 69. The Rules of Procedure say – House Speaker maintains order during the House session. All present are obliged to follow his instructions. The House Speaker may warn delegates who do not respect the order or provisions of this Rules of Procedure by their conduct or speech during the House session. The provisions of this Rules of Procedure make it very clear that the right of every delegate is an inalienable right to address this House in the context of the time at his disposal and respect for the agenda, which we from the College, particularly the chairman, are concerned about. This Rules of Procedure does not give the right to any other delegate to restrict the right of another delegate to what or how he will speak. And in that sense, I have addressed you as the chairman, not as a discussion, for which I would certainly use this pay phone. So there's no need, I mean, to move on with this discussion. I'm sure that each of us, respecting our past practice, will not limit the right to say what he wants. We're moving on with the debate. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sead Kadić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1610	Mr. Chairman, co-chairing, distinguished fellow Members, guests. I, when I look at all these discussions of my colleagues, can't just not react to things here. And it's right here, and I'm standing at that point that we should stick to the agenda point that clearly speaks of supporting the amendment to the Law on the collection of tv services for the reasons that such a situation, as my colleagues said, is very bad, generally bad at public 18 tv services. I am not sure that we, as the highest legislative authority in this country, can challenge the law, we can call for something that is contrary to what is regulated by some law. I'm not against all the questions that my colleagues are talking about, opening up on this House, talking about it openly, and no matter how hard it looks, easy, or whatever it is, but I'm also not about having a whole nation put up here and calling for some sort of editorial policy on one of the TVs, here's the story of Federal TV, because I know that my party from which I come, or my people, maybe we're not happy with that television, but we don't want anyone to respect us, about anyone that's going to work out, that we're the ones who edit something. Furthermore, here it is said – well it is only 3 months to how much this should be worth and what we would be doing now, and I say – so it is only 3 months until then, let's support it because of this tv service, and in those 3 months, as serious, responsible people, who represent their people, talk about everything that keeps us together on these issues. It is logical for me, logically, that the existing parliamentary majority supports the proposals, decisions made by the Council of Ministers. For me, it's the logic of things here, because that's what the Council of Ministers chose from this parliamentary majority. Maybe here, and what someone's been saying about the conclusion on the board of the RTV service, maybe in that segment if we can't agree differently to come to some conclusion that would suggest that this TV system, both in the RS and here in the Federation and state television, can work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1611	Thank you, too, dear colleague Kadiću. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1612	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished present. Honestly, we really do have an amendment to the law on the agenda that's actually changing a number, and we know what it's about. I'm not running away from the debate and I don't need to run away from any discussion about this problem. However, if we want to discuss this, then we must have the necessary analysis that is indeed an analysis for this kind of debate. After all, there is also a business obligation to have relevant material for each topic to be discussed. So, the topic is obviously significant and it requires and, apparently, it causes interest. And I would in the first part, however, we need to ensure for one time period a continuation of one tax regime, and that's our task today. If that's a good method, if it's a good way to charge, it's probably better. Is this a short period until June 30th, I'm sure it is. So it's not enough time to prepare an appropriate model. However, we have what we have on the agenda today. And I keep reminding you, from the European partnership to the report on the movement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you constantly have in the report to ensure sustainability, financial sustainability and stability of all three public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to ensure the editorial independence of all three public broadcasters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is an imperative for us on the European path, and we need to take care of it. Now we have this period that we've come into, and we need to solve it, legally, so to speak, to cover that this model continues to work. Many questions are simply being opened, since they are being opened in this way, and given some kind of view. So what's wrong with this system, what's the problem with this system? I'll remind you that this system is a model, so-called. A corporate model, established thanks to experts who have been engaged through OHR, that under OHR's patronage, the model has been established, that it has been started, laws have been adopted that provide for the formation of three public service corporations, public broadcasters, etc. I will remind you only, so what is the task of public service in that law. The main task of public broadcasters is to inform the public truthfully about political, economic, social, social, cultural, cultural, scientific, religious, ecological, sports and other events, to promote democratic processes, to ensure adequate representation of impartial news and programmes on current events, and in the second and second time informative, cultural and artistic, educational, children's, sports and entertainment programmes to be available to the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's also a provision on so-called. European content with the obligation of an appropriate part of the programme to be linked to the so-called European content. I will also remind myself of the provision of the Law which says that public service programmes will respect the rights of constituent peoples and others and will be equally edited in all three official languages and two letters. So we have a law that's a valid law, we have laws that are your laws. The applicable laws are respected and applied, and for better efforts to come, to get better, and there is a way in which these better laws are reached. Why isn't a corporation established, why is the system like this, why is there a problem? Believe me, if we went back to the past we'd probably come to responsibility and those who started one model and didn't finish it, I mean experts who were hired, internationally, and believe that a little in this room of political entities present would remain without being, that neither their responsibility would be found for the non-constitution of the corporation nor any of these problems that arise, etc., etc. What we're talking about today, what we're talking about, the question of billing. I'll, I think, public tv, BHRT delivered a report for the period until the 10th month of last year, I think. And that's the problem, and that's the service problem, the invoiced tax over BH Telekom 16 million, charged 12,900,000, invoiced fee over HT Ironet 6 million, charged 1.400,000, invoiced fee over Telekom RS 10,600,000, charged 9,400,000. So, over BH Telekom, 80% chargeable, over HT Eronet 24%, via Telekom RS 88%. We can talk about solutions that need to be fixed, but, I repeat, laws that are valid, above all, will be respected and should be respected. In responsibility for why, where we are in this state, what could be better done, every debate is welcome and needs to be opened, and we need to open it, however, whatever majority here in the House of Nations votes a solution, this solution cannot be a politically explicit order for members of the Council of Ministers who... with a certain political approach. Therefore, members of the Council of Ministers cannot be ordered to counter their political beliefs or things must be clarified. If we say in the conclusion that we need to ensure system restructuring, that three channels are broadcast in three languages, does that mean existing channels, all three languages on all three channels, as the law predicts, or is that something else? If something else can't be done by members of the Council of Ministers, they can't act against their political views. No parliament can order members of the Council of Ministers, it is a paradoxical situation for members of the Council of Ministers to act contrary to their political position, regardless of what it is. I just want to point out, the BHRT system, which has provided us with the report, and which we are in charge of considering the report, I also see the drive to improve business, see from the same report and reduce the number of employees, see also the tendency to rationalise business, see also, my personal point of view, one correct, responsible, professional editorial policy. I am to analyze the program, and every program, and every show, but really to do it expertly, to do it in a way that whoever we give this task to, to an expert or a group of experts, to analyze the program, and then, based on these expert analyses, we see what it is, whether the law is respected or not. If the law is not respected, then there are 20 ways to get rid of it. Of course, there is always the possibility that the laws will be better and there is always a need to try to improve the laws. And in the end, I didn't see Federal Television treating the chess room with a fascist symbol. The šahovnica has its own symbolism, but I cannot agree that on some hill on two dulums, which is a public surface, past public procedures, legal procedures, in an illegal way in the public surface, two dulums are covered by a symbol of a nation, no matter what people it is. This, when working on a public surface, should be a legal procedure and should be accompanied by the respect of all those, as we say, constituent peoples living in that space and who should indeed, indeed, in those symbols, show these symbols and display that symbolism, be to the extent that they are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1613	Thank you, too, Mr. Genjac. Correction of false allegations, distinguished colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1614	...we started making the Federation's coat of arms and they were interrupted by the police, but let's not talk about it. First thing I wanted to do was apologize to my esteemed colleague Kadić if he happened to feel called, so in no case would it ever occur to me... for the editorial policy. So it wasn't about the people, it was about certain circles that I wouldn't be talking about right now. I called about Mr. Genjac's argument. These experts and this OHR here's what they did to us, here's what they did to us. And speaking of legality, it might be a good idea to comb BHT and other public broadcasters. Who's responsible for losing $5 million? Are we here in the House of Peoples? I don't think so, I think the board of directors of the Public TV system is responsible. Financial sustainability, you often quoted it in the provisions there, it is not correct to quote targeted parts and resolutions and declarations of the European Parliament, mentioning some more things, as well as the right of all to inform in their own language. Someone can't convince me if someone writes on RTRS something in Croatian that it's information in Croatian, with all due respect to Cyrillic and television. Encouraging democratic processes. Well, here we have heard in these discussions quite enough how public broadcasters encourage democratic processes. I don't think there's any public broadcasters to make this country a much more comfortable place to live. And here I absolutely agree with my colleague Tadić's debate. What happened to us now? It happened to us that the board of directors had done absolutely nothing for 11 years, because it was nice to them. So they came to us last year—what do we do now, he says, runs out of charge. I repeat, it's about transitional provisions, transitional provisions that should have been completed 10 years ago. It was a temporary solution. In Article 18(1), this imposed Law by Mr Westendorf, OHR and other experts worshiping Bosnia and Herzegovina stands – the way in which the TV tax is charged is determined and set up by the System Committee. What doesn't make it clear to anyone? It's not our fault for the position that both BHRT and the Public TV system were brought into. It's their fault. Let them handle this. First of all, it's incorrect for us to pass it on. I'm just saying, it's only about changing one number in the transitional provisions. And what happens now if we adopt this, even though I don't see anyone in the line of the Croatian people voting for this, even if we adopt this today? Then 21 will come to us in the seventh month and say again – it's over, let's extend to 30.12., 01.01. will come – let's continue again until 30.06. I call on you to first apply Article 18 (1) of the Law on Public TV Service which clearly states – the way in which the tv charges are charged determines and establishes the System Committee. There they are, as far as they know, having the powers to do so, we have given them, and that we are dealing with the creation of a new Law on Public TV Service that will be in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws, because this is not except imposed with the revote of a nation, it is also contrary to the 2008 Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling, it is contrary to the Consumer Rights Act and it is contrary to the Law on Obligation Relations. Not to ask what about these two months that have been illegally charged by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's gonna give these people back 15 marks? No one, bit by a wolf forest, is important that media employees have primates, and it's okay, they should, but I can't be produced because I don't pay for a TV subscription because I adhere to positive legal rules. By what law do I have to pay the subscription? This is definitely not what I need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1615	Mr. Karamatić, you've broken the weather maybe a little bit more. Correction of false allegations, distinguished colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1616	Thank you very much. Well, there's talk here about tea, so that's what the honourable representative, Mr. Genjac, was talking about. I have to remind here what the House of People did on 12.05.2015 in its grades. So, a year ago now, almost, according to financial indicators, the overall BHRT state is going to be rapidly getting worse. A new efficient and sustainable collection model should be established. That's what we said a year ago, so it's not even about tea. Some of us were then... this is Mr. Genjac. So this model is gone, and what we're proposing today is not effective, but a spent model certainly, all arguments go that way. But here, the other thing is how we're going to react to it. Thirdly, the Board of the BHRT system has given its own assessment, so it's not my assessment, that the reform of the system as it's stipulated under... the law has never been reached, here, I'm literally reading, they haven't achieved even the complementarity of the program, there's no corporation formed, etc. But... this assessment they are giving, the legislative authority of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it's us, it's not done, it says, nothing to prevent the law from being implemented. And we keep quiet about it, and if we dare to talk, then that should, uh, be questioned from some positions. So this is too serious people, it's too serious. And the third thing, so when it comes to the role of the Council of Ministers, which is here today... I don't see anyone here saying that the Council, prescribed what the Honorable Chairman or ministers would do as part of their position... to the executive authority, that's their responsibility. We said the Council of Ministers should take a leading role in solving urgent problems, a leading role. How? We didn't say how, because then and then a year ago we said it was too serious... Do we have on the table by the Council of Ministers a consistent proposal or do we just have a proposal to extend this spent..., I ask you... And the third thing Parliament should be involved, we have concluded ourselves, in solving the problem of business, the functioning of BHRT in order to preserve the integrity of BHRT and maintain... the responsibility to do so. [[isn't understood because it's turning from the microphone]] 22
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1617	Sir, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, he's right, Mr. Genjac, citizens probably listen to everything we're talking about, they're wondering what we're changing in law, and it's obvious that they're not informed then. But, you know, you should inform them of this public TV system, so that previous people know why we are discussing it this way at this session. I can't write flyers, neither can any of you here, nor would it look like anything, so go around and say, "People, we've been discussing this and that at today's session, and then you write your flyer, your own, and then what does the people think about it? That's the problem, but it's just about this. Does the public know whether those who regularly pay the subscription to be in Article 42 of the existing Law stand, in the position (4), are charged by Telecom operators until 26.10.2015. So, I don't think that these subscribers got that information in time and so they're just being informed about it. Finally, at the age of 26.10.2015, Telecoms were able to charge this subscription. This is so little on the side of that information, or it's spreading in some way, and then the conclusions are made in the House of Peoples, then in the House of Representatives, and it's relativating, and it goes on, and on and on and on. So, I think we just hit the topic in these discussions the way we led them. You're talking about giving it another three months. What about these ten years now? So, it was a time when no one wanted to ask themselves, here's the problem that Mr. Mario Karamatić was talking about, so that he could adequately solve them, so that these three months don't come in line, but this was waiting, so let's do three more, so let's do three more, so Bog knows how many months. And he who spoke, come on, people, to solve this problem is the enemy of the system, whoever says to keep it like this, the law is not respected, you know we have a legal provision and so on. We don't have a legal provision, that's the thing, we don't have one, that's why we're discussing it like this. It's been quiet, let's say, 10 years. And secondly, here I see no particular reason for anyone to bring into confrontation the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers on this issue. So, the Council of Ministers, as far as I know, is the constitutional structure of this country, and I think I know something, competent for law enforcement, not their adoption. That's what we adopt that they have to do. They have the right to initiative, to propose, and that's nice, and that's good, and so is every delegate and MP here. And in that sense, any one of you, I, including myself as a delegate, or any MP, has the same function as the Council of Ministers has when it comes to legislative proceedings, the same, no less. And for law enforcement, it's true that they're in charge. Now, speaking of law enforcement, someone should have implemented this provision, that by October of last year, by the 10th month, this provision was in force and that it should be second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1619	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sredoje Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1620	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I've worked very hard to listen to the entire course of today's debate and accepting all of what we said today, with small or larger differences, we can accept that this is it. 23 Diagnosis, obviously, we all know from our point of view, more or less. We'll agree or disagree, but that's not the most important thing, it's what's the cure, what's the cure in the future. If we're gonna have this discussion every three months, or it's gonna get worse, I'm sure of it, then I wonder where we're all going, this is a picture and an opportunity for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why do you wonder at tv, and don't report on this, program like this, like this, innuendo, tid, etc., etc. Give someone here to tell me, or somewhere else, that the law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been passed and that it is fully implemented, don't let us line up now, and it's completely relevant yesterday, it's over 10 years ago, and probably for the next few years, not to say the prognosis, which is the law that will be passed and that in this Bosnia and Herzegovina someone will be over it... and will carry out it consistently and to the end. That's Bosnia and Herzegovina's problem, that's our problem. Either we will or we won't. When I think about three months, believe me, it won't mean anything to me for three months, or three years, to say this now, here's the next one, and I agree with those debaters who say where we've been in the past, I don't know how many years. But imagine last year this debate, look at a little bit of what we all discussed when we were extending this deadline, and, in the meantime, if anyone felt responsible for saying it stood out for those three months, or the six that we approved at this House, this same setup, and it's probably going to be the same ratio and ratio of strength, right? Has anyone said – wait, before the deadline let us offer a solution, and the Committee and Proposer of the Law which today is the Ministry, that is, the Council of Ministers, so it would be natural then. Why aren't we doing this? We're not going to say now that someone's been disabled, for both of us and them, that we're proposing legal regulations, changes like this, and so on, etc. That's why I think it's really a serious question to ask myself all the responsibilities in front of the public. Responsibility, we're not the ones who don't need to spread the demagogue and now that we're all talking to you, so that some say you have privileges, you have, you have, you have, you don't work, you don't work, you don't work, you don't work, etc., etc. Because what's the guarantee today when we talk, I'm just asking the question, that in 30.06 this year, a new law will be passed in which the collection of tv fees will be settled. If that's a guarantee I'm signing right now, if that's a guarantee from the Council of Ministers that says we're going to propose a law that you, we believe, will adopt, because there are those who do most here, excellent, and that. If it's us who say it, I really do, then I'll take it great, let's say it right now. What about 3 months or how much the vacuum is from the end of the legal deadline for collecting fees, is that right, so this period is already, under quotes,... without quotes at all, illegal collection of tv fees, but it goes, goes, caps, 5, 10 or I don't know how much it is, someone more, someone less, and now Mr. Chairman has read about how much TV fees it really takes here and we're thinking about what it means. These are huge differences, the proportions in the collection of tv fees. If we don't adopt those three months, I believe there will be a tax return. I doubt our lucky-unlucky citizens will apply for constitutionality of collecting taxes, legality, etc., so he... will find a lawyer one and give him what he would give for six years in the next, and so on and so on. But let's spend the conclusions of this House that we adopted, here are our colleagues talking about it, and I wish we had asked a delegate question today, all of us, until the conclusion of the House came about the conclusions that we made back then and then. No, we didn't. It won't mean anything to those who vote for today, possibly this Law, nothing will change in our heads that we think we're satisfied, so we're fighting to extend the TV tax next month or vice versa. Nothing will get worse in the minds of those who say today that we shouldn't, uh, accept it. And that's why I think it's good to discuss, it's good, but I don't think we could go out without a conclusion and put in charge, or I suggest that the Council of Ministers, or the House of Peoples, conclude and assign the Council of Ministers to offer a full law on tv within 60 days, or amendments and additions, or a new law, now, this one, it's quite whatever. That's it, thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1621	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I only ask for adequate material that is desirable if you can make that kind of conclusion, help you technical service...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1622	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1623	That from earlier on, this conclusion, therefore, is not to be re-pronounced on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1624	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1625	I'm sorry, you don't want a reenactment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1626	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1627	All right, thanks. If this is the end of your discussion, then the word has the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1628	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome all the honourable representatives and MPs of the House of Peoples. Although many things have been said, here are some information that may help to make an adequate and timely decision to continue this process. It is, of course, a very complex and very important subject which, unfortunately, as it usually happens with us, always goes from the field of the profession to the field of politics and then on that field either stops or makes things more complicated to the end. But here, just a few details. Therefore, the Council of Ministers set out exactly 2 months ago the amendments and additions to the Law on Public TV Service and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure, so that was true on 4 February 2016, with our proposal that such changes and additions should be considered by an urgent procedure in order to extend the existing system of collection of RTTV fees in time, and thus enable further functioning of our public TV systems before reaching a comprehensive or law that would enable, therefore, financial sustainability, but also the programming and professional independence of public TV systems. I would simply like to remind a few things, therefore, that the basic text of the Law on the Public TV System is in Article 42(4) contained in the provision under which the TV tax is charged by Telecom operators. However,... the first authorisation of the system is not defined... the payment model and therefore Article 42(4) has been amended last year with a period of validity until 26 October 2015. In the meantime, the Committee of the System has initiated amendments to the current Law on the Public TV System of BiH, with a proposal to continue to charge TV fees to Telecom operators by 30.06.2016. Unfortunately, we are here only talking about the dominant operators of Telekom, so BH Telekom, HT Eronet and Telecommunications 25 RS, but we forget that, according to this Act, the fees of RTV fees are due by all telecommunications operators carrying out telecommunications services on the basis of a permit issued by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency, which has not been the case so far. Thus, the request and such an initiative of the Committee of the System to extend the existing billing fee to 30.06.2016 was supported and adopted by the Council of Ministers, but based on the previous consent of the Federal Government, the Government of Republika Srpska and Brcko District. So, you have this proposal, which is supported by all governments, four governments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Mayor, or the Government of the Brcko District, and I really urge you to adopt these changes and complement them, to extend the existing system of collection to 30.06, which would allow the Committee of the Public TV System, and all other entities that will be involved in the development, adoption and adoption of a definitively defined new model of RTTV tax, to do so in a procedural manner and end. I recall that the Committee of the System has made such a proposal, that it delivered it to the House of Representatives, that a few days ago, in the last week, it seemed to me to be a committee of competence and that we expect, I don't know, what model they chose, that it seems to me by forming... a working group composed of experts from this area, but we expect a final proposal which would be sent to the parliamentary procedure, and previously, if necessary, we agree as the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers who would establish such a proposal and we send it to parliamentary procedure, since it comes as a harmonised proposal from the Committee of All Three Public TV Systems. Therefore, and with this end, I think it is very important for the financial sustainability, professional independence, the fact that this is one of the conditions that we... in all reports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the relationship between the executive and legislative authorities to the professionality and independence of public broadcasters, to adopt these amendments and to supplement the existing law extending the current fee, fees until 30.06., and until then we all try to speed up the dynamics of adopting a new law or a new system of billing for RTTV fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1629	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is no further application for participation in the discussion. Word to the Rules of Procedure, he has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1630	Well, it's actually a business intervention because there's no such thing as a break for 10 minutes on behalf of the Bosniak Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1631	Okay, thank you. On behalf of the Bosniaks Club, the break was requested for 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Given that a break on behalf of the Bosniak Club has been requested by a respected colleague, Halid Genjac, I offer an option to contact if he wishes. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1633	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1634	Okay, thank you. Since we've exhausted our applications for the discussion, we're now moving on to a plea. So, we are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 6 delegates, 6 delegates against them, 2 delegates were detained. From Federation 3 to, 4 against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska 3 to, 2 against, no one abstained. I find there's no such thing as a general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1635	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1636	Mr. Genjac, you've just brought down the law, the porch, and we attribute it to the porch.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1637	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1638	Technically, it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1639	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1640	We'll repeat the vote, we'll repeat, we'll repeat the vote in accordance with your request.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1641	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1642	Please repeat your vote at Mr. Genjac's request. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 7 delegates were in favour, 6 were against, and 1 delegate was abstained. From Federation 4 to, 4 against and 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 3 to, 2 against, no one abstained. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the draft law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH was adopted in the first reading. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1643	I thank the chairman. 27 In view of the fact that it is a law which is simple and the reasons for urgency are justified, in accordance with Article 103(4), which reads – if it considers it to be a law of minor size or a degree of complexity, the House may decide to consider the proposal of the law in another reading without considering it in the relevant committee, or in the second stage. For these reasons, and in accordance with Article 103(4), I propose that this Law be considered immediately in a second reading. Please put the proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1644	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Did anyone sign up for a word? Reportedly, the word has a distinguished colleague, Mr Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that the Law is in regular procedure and that I was planning to make amendments, I suggest that we leave a second reading for the next session, that according to the Rules of Procedure, I can submit the amendments I thought would be 24 hours before the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1646	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Is anyone else applying for a discussion? There are no further applications. We now move on to a statement on the proposal of the head, the chairman of the Bošnjak klub in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Halid Genjac, to hold a debate and a statement in accordance with Article 103(4), in such a way that this House assesses that it is a law of minor size or degree of complexity, so it decides that the proposal for a law is also being considered in a second reading, immediately without consideration in the competent commission, i.e. in phase two. Who's up for a proposal like this? Error, error, I ask the technical service to really pay attention to the console used by Mr. Genjac, because this is happening twice in this session. I invite you to reorganize the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 8 delegates were in favour, 6 were against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 4 to, 5 against, no one abstained, from Republika Srpska 4 for, 1 against, no one abstained. There's a general and entity majority, so I'm guessing Mr. Genjac's proposal has been passed. Given that Mr. Genjac's proposal has been passed, we are now going to discuss this Law in a second reading. I'm opening a hearing if anyone wants to sign up. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1647	Question, Mr. Chairman - How am I going to submit the amendment now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1648	Mr Karamatić, given that you have asked the question, I am obliged to give you an answer, although I have not previously consulted with any respected colleagues, so I will read what is in this article – If it is estimated that it is a law of minor size or degree of complexity that the House may decide that the bill is also being discussed in another reading without consideration in the competent commission, it is phase two. So, you are not limited, according to my interpretation, to propose an amendment, the only thing that is excluded here is, the deadlines for the submission of amendments that are in the ordinary course of 15 days, in a shortened 8 and there is no discussion in the commission that should be accompanied by the proposal for a law in the second reading and these amendments. I think it is important, for the sake of the public and respected delegates, to mention that an distinguished colleague, Mr Genjac, as the chairman of the National Club at a press conference held right after the end of last session announced this kind of proposal, and he also announced to us as members of the Colleges in the consultations that we had in the break that Mr. Genjac was looking for just as head of the Bosniak Club. So I can take into account this proverbial procedure to assume that there was a possibility of a possible amendment being prepared. If you want extra time to prepare the amendments, then I suggest, if it is not something of course that I overdo in the work of your club, that in the appropriate time of business approved, here is until a certain period of time your club head asks you to take a break to allow you to submit the amendment. If you don't want to consider it, here's to say the majority that clearly exists, so you yourself opt for one of the possible modes by counting on the rational use of the time that we have here for today's session course. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić, Mrs. Zovko, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1649	Thank you very much. Here...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1650	The word has an esteemed colleague, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1651	Five minutes' break to make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1652	Five minutes break at the request of the head of the Croatian People's Club. [[PAUZA]] The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1654	Thank you very much. 29 We have completed our consultations, so here will be the results.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1655	I have to admit, I suppose, but I didn't, but for a stenogram, this really wasn't clear enough. So, are you looking for a break for the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1656	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1657	You're not looking for a break for the amendment. Thank you. Well, if we've exhausted the debate on this issue, I'll conclude the debate in the second reading. We move to a statement on the draft law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH in a second reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 7 delegates, 5 were against, and 2 were abstentions. From Federation 4 to, 4 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the bill amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH was adopted in the same text as was adopted in the House of Representatives. We move to point four, and at the same time they report that part of the delegates announced a leave due to a session of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, I ask the club chiefs to take care of only the quorum for the sake of this fact. Mr. Karamatić, are you leaving or are you staying? _________(?) He's going, he's going. You're going, too, okay. I understand that we have the quorum that four delegates are present from the Serb people's ranks, four delegates are present from the Croatian people, three delegates are present from the Bosniak people's ranks. Since we have quorum and working conditions at point four, we move to point four. Ad. 4. Special Report: "Accessibility of the work space of the BiH legislative bodies to persons with disabilities" – applicant: The Ombudsman's institution for human rights
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1660	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1661	You want to vote again? Please organise a reenactment and a secretary until the next session to be removed if there are technical reasons along with employees in the technical service. Mr. Raguž you want to repeat the vote, last time you were up for this?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1662	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1663	Will you repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1664	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1665	Please reorganize the re-election vote. So, I'm warning all delegates that if you don't press the key that's in front of you, you're practically pleading as if you're being held back. It's a provision that speaks of that if you're present in the O.R. 31 Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 7 for, against no one, abstentioned no one, from Republika Srpska 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the Special Report: "Accessibility of the work space of the BiH legislative authorities to persons with disabilities" has been adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. Out of the 11 delegates present, 10 were for, against no one, held 1 delegate. From Federation 7 for, against no one, abstentioned none, from Republika Srpska 3 for, against none, abstention 1. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the conclusion of the Joint Commission is __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1667	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1668	I apologize for not offering you, but you said at the club you wouldn't support this conclusion, so I thought it was for that. Here, uh, we repeat the vote at Mr. Radmanović's request. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 7 for, from Republika Srpska 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. Now we're going to work at point five, Ad. 5. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual travel of citizens You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. I give my word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Commission, if he wishes. As in the report, thank you. I'm opening a debate right now. Please answer the word. 32 The Word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1670	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman. You have seen in the Commission's opinion that we have come to a positive opinion by revote. As chairman of the Commission, I was against establishing a proposal for ratification of this Agreement and I am obliged to say only a few reasons. I suppose a large number of those who follow these agreements do not care that a complicated procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina can lead to a poor assessment by the authorities who determine the proposals. In fact, in the year since this Agreement was adopted, many things have changed geostrategic and can always affect change and the need to change, that is, that this House does not give consent to ratification. Secondly, none of Parliament's homes have the possibility in the procedure before signing to say their opinion only when we come to ratification and many consider it, and sometimes here it happens formally, so we have and we are discussing five, six agreements all of a sudden and we adopt everything. In this Agreement, there is one important thing that a large number of people have not noticed, it is actually a transition from, a border with a ID card, as it is pompously announced here with a biometric ID card. It is true that we have biometric ID cards, but they do not give us in the EU even though they have the same ones. Here someone came up with that we can go to Albania and the citizens of Albania in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a biometric ID card. I remind you that we are not neighbouring countries, that we only have such an agreement with Montenegro and Serbia as neighbouring countries and we had with Croatia until it was in the EU and that, in my opinion, it is unacceptable for several reasons. First, the company was also the Council of Ministers, which twice passed an agreement through his hands and the presidency, which also passed twice, to assess the situation and relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole with Albania. All could have noticed before the Albanian Embassy was abolished here by an ambassador of Albania who was not in line with the opinion and foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that was already enough reason not to go to such an agreement and not to discuss it at all, and let's not get to the point of ratifying it. And if we ignore all this, you all noticed a statement by the president of Albania during an official visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, a non-diplomatic, non-state man called on Bosnia and Herzegovina to recognise Kosovo, although he knows perfectly well that one of the three constituent nations here is against it. And in such a situation, it comes back to ratification of the Agreement as we have. That is why I was against the Commission meeting, which is why I will not vote today for a proposal to ratify this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1671	The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, regardless of the public's interest in one such issue, which I suppose may be interesting to the public in view of the closedness, especially the tourist markets in the Middle East, the follow-up of the security crisis and the possible openness of Albania's market when it comes to its Adriatic coast, I just want here to, before the public takes any judgment on our position on this issue, to be familiar with all the facts. 33 Therefore, this Agreement, which has been proposed, is the Government of Republika Srpska and the Ministry of Interior, which is based, of course, in Banja Luka, fully accepted, and informed us that, after a detailed analysis of that agreement, it informs all of us that they have no objections, no suggestions, no suggestions, no suggestions on the same. So, here, in order not to have someone by some pattern or relationships that existed from some earlier period or possibly existed again on the basis of... concluded something, so you know that the attitude we talked about at the club, therefore, has nothing to do with any statements, internal conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, institutional, party, such or such, is simply a subject that is truly open, but is neither exhausted on what Mr Radmanović is talking about. With regard to biometric passports, this Agreement introduces a single newspaper that is specific to neighbouring countries or to countries of an alliance, such as the EU within which all citizens of all EU countries can travel only with a ID card and these are approximately those relations. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a neighbouring country with Albania, and it is not in any specific alliance in any Union that would allow the control of such a specific form of cross-border cross-border, especially as I say it is not an interstate border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, because it does not exist, but rather a practical transfer through the territory of the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Montenegro, where we have no notice of what these two countries think of it, because it is one thing to enter Montenegro with our ID card and exit from Montenegro to Bosnia and Herzegovina with our ID card, and one thing is to allow the passage from Montenegro's territory to the territory of the Republic of Albania with a personal map. So there should also be obligations of the Republic of Montenegro when it comes to this topic. I'm especially saying this because the transfer by other means, let's say by air or by sea, also has certain specificities and obligations to use passports under certain circumstances etc. so it does not represent this kind of exception or stimulation. However, like many other agreements that have some details, which are less or more applicable, more difficult or easier to apply or here to say fully and inapplicable, we have witnessed numerous agreements signed and ratified on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this Agreement comes at some point which is quite specific, before, not to be wrong, twenty days or a month, with the help of us Mr Radmanović, we had this at the session of our commission and I then supported this agreement with good will, good intentions, we also heard representatives from the Foreign Ministry. My question to the foreign ministry was this – do you have any indication that such an agreement could pose a threat to security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so here I say in the Republic of Albania? We've received information that those indicators don't have, which doesn't mean there's no such problem, because I'm the shortest I can convince it. Then there's a terrorist attack at the Brussels airport. And after that, we and the public come up with some information that the German police have arrested some of the citizens of the country with whom we should have signed an agreement as we heard through this information at the time, warning them not to participate in some activities that pose a threat to security. Without any prejudice, with the full intention of finding responsibility for this Agreement and above all its implementation in an adequate way, because it is as it is written that there are problems, but come on, so I think it might be politically wise, because our goal is to have good relations in the region with everyone, as well as with the Republic of Albania with which we are likely to be in the EU tomorrow, in one period, at some point, it will happen, that either this procedure will be stopped now, we will postpone, what we have talked about in the College, for a better time, or that we will simply finally state what we from the club are prepared to do, without any presupposing that we are giving anyone an opinion, we will not support this Agreement, if there is a vote, and that, accordingly, some new negotiation procedure that would offer us with more assurances that the security and other countries, I will not be subject to this agreement. All in light of these circumstances that we have in front of us and we can't hide people, tomorrow someone will ask the question why someone with less control went in somewhere, I say again, to Albania or to Bosnia Hercegovina, or that country served him as a transit to get him on that basis, etc. Got some kind of privileged status that he abused for these or those reasons. In doing so, I say again, without any prejudice, I speak only of the deep awareness of the responsibility that we have as the last instance that treats this Agreement. The presidency, this one, that defacto can be brought before the final act that no one here is intended to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1673	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1674	Thank you very much. Now, I understand what Mr. Radmanović said and Ognjen, Mr. Tadić, too, but the fact is that we are now opening up a completely new approach here in this way to our agreement on these agreements which actually means that we do not have absolute confidence in what the competent institutions have done, the Presidency is initiating negotiations, empowering who will negotiate, it is the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry, in that procedure they give consent. All consent has been obtained, if not I could understand it, from the competent institutions. So I also understand that some kind of political taste should be given to this process, but I think the damage will suffer Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way, so, instead of sending positive signals, here is a satisfactory procedure, we facilitate mutual communication between countries in the region, and we create assumptions that we are once part of a new relationship, not that we are constantly returning to what was. I really don't think he'd argue with this right, but I don't think it's time to block this deal, it's a bad message.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1675	Mr. Ognjen Tadić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1676	We have repeatedly said that this Rules of Procedure is very rough when it comes to these interventions, so, well, it pulls some controversy with itself, but it's not about correcting the wrong assumption, so this can't be settled, so you didn't do anything wrong to deny it, but just to supplement what you're talking about from my angle, given that we're a good part of the actors of all of it. So it's not at all controversial to support this way of establishing good relations between countries anywhere, so here we are tomorrow, I don't know, signing this agreement with some country that doesn't have, say, Schengen restrictions, examples working with the United States, that we're going with ID cards there and that they can come from the United States with ID cards here or, say, Canada, Australia where we have an incomparably larger number of our citizens, so people who, for whom we really need this kind of agreement. But they all have some reason why they won't sign it with us. Now, if, in view of the tolerance we have here for, let me say, some extraordinary circumstances, we have nevertheless estimated that Albania does not enter the order of the countries, nor do we enter the order of the countries which may represent any kind of problem, that is 35 good, and that is what we have given support and therefore there was all the way to the Commission and we voted on that commission by deeply discussing these issues. However, there have been changed circumstances, therefore changed circumstances that are not negligible, so Europe is closing for all of us, so these are some security signals, there is Mr Nović, who is certainly more directed at saying what it can mean, that means one reflex that we have to show towards the trend that exists. This trend will last for a while, it will melt down, the situation will calm down, whether it will last a month, two, three, someone will declare that it is no longer a red danger and we will return to this topic. In that sense, it is possible to go back that way to stop the debate today and wait for these circumstances. And we can say again we don't like the Agreement for these or those reasons, so we're going to tear it down, which is another option, maybe equally legitimate, maybe according to the Rules of Procedure itself, but when these agreements are always there, it should, at least I'm taking care of it, so it's not just a matter of procedure, it's primarily a matter of politics, because it's interstate relations, we can't be a non-serious country that brings some things to some point, and then it stops by saying something that we've changed our minds or anything else, so that's why we can't change our Rules of Procedure. But we can assess the situation, so when someone says it's no longer a red danger, that we're going to eventually spin on this subject or say here's how it is, maybe some new time will bring some better relationships, and then we'll deal with this in some better security situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1677	Thank you very much. Mr. Bariša Čolak has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1678	Thank you very much. Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I, from what I've heard, simply conclude that if we plead today that this Agreement will not pass, I would suggest that we still give this Agreement a chance, even though we cannot put amendments into it, to postpone the plea under this Agreement and to see how it is actually possible to get out of this situation. I don't think we're gonna lose anything if we don't come forward today, uh, and let's, let's say, a chance to see if there's any chance that we can just go along with it. If, of course, this is not an option, then we can and we will put on one of the next sessions or one of the next sessions, as we have already agreed, but here is my suggestion that we still declare today that we delay the statement on this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1679	Thank you, Mr. Čolak. If there are no further applications for discussion, if there are no further applications for discussion, then first we will, I apologize to Mr Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. The word has an esteemed colleague...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1680	...the chairman, I apologized a little later. Uh, I'm close to this proposal that Mr. Čolak made to postpone the next session and perhaps try to clarify the problem in the consultation process. The arguments we've heard against this 36 agreement, I must say openly, are not very convincing. I mean a statement by an ambassador of a state that can be a certain degree of diplomacy more or less, is not exactly a reason to assess relations with that state. I think that this second argument about all these events does not separate Albania from other countries, but here I am more afraid of the chain reaction to future agreements, if we start treating agreements this selectively, and therefore I would like to leave some space, to try to clarify, so let's try to clarify if there are problems and try to save if this is possible. And I propose a conclusion – that the statement on this Agreement should be postponed for the next session, a statement for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1681	Thank you. Correction, pardon, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Radmanović, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1682	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1683	Correction of the wrong quote, all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1684	I'm just asking that we don't simplify things, so it's not just about the statements of the ambassador who before he left here really at the Public Service, he's been talking all over the place, so I mentioned Mr. Genjac and the rest of you if you didn't hear the president of Albania for a visit a month ago. Maybe you haven't noticed, and you should have noticed that a man past all the rules and diplomacy without talking about state behavior tells us what we should be doing here, and he knows it can't go through. So that might be the key argument in all of this. There's just a little clarification, I don't see what we'd get if we postponed, so we can't change the Agreement, we can't change it, I don't think the time will make it worse, if you will, especially in light of what Mr. Tadić was talking about. When the whole of Europe closes and who knows what else that and the houses are going to do, we delay and wait. I remind you that there are a number of agreements signed on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are not ratified, but is not the subject now, just for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-04-0.u1685	I thank Mr. Radmanović. There are no further applications for participation in the debate, and I therefore put the first nominated proposal by Mr Bariša Čolak to postpone the statement on this item of the agenda. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present - 8 delegates were for, against three delegates, there were no abstentions. From Federation 7 for, against no one, abstentioned no one, from Republika Srpska 1 for, versus 3, abstentioned no one. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. 37 There are consultations in the College. Expressing the club's position, so there's no deal, is there? No deal. We're running a plea in the second round. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, 8 were for, against the three delegates, there was no one abstention. From the Federation of BiH 7 for, against no one, abstentioned no one, from Republika Srpska 1 for, versus 3, abstentioned no one. Given that there is a general and entity majority I find that Mr Bariša Čolak's proposal has been adopted to postpone the declaration of this Agreement. We have exhausted today's agenda, and I realize that we have completed the 17th session of the House of Peoples. I'm closing this 17th session. You will be notified of the date on which the next session is held. Session completed at 2:45 p.m.
