ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11972	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 27th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House and media representatives. Representatives of the National Minorities Council of BiH, representatives of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and representatives of the BiH Postal Transport Agency were also invited. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by no one. According to the Service's information, we have 40 agents present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168 of the Treaty on the The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Aleksandra Pandurević to the Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH; Senad Šepić to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Denis Bećirović to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Amir Fazlić to the Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; Predrag Kožul to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Hazim Rančić to the ministar of financije i trezor of BiH; Mirsad Mešić to the Minister of Civil Affairs of BiH; Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vlavica to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Damir Arnaut to the BiH Minister of Justice. These announcements are in accordance with Article 168. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct television transmission of this part of the session is provided in accordance with Article 167(1). Rules of Procedure. The questions are addressed to the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in that order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to legislators Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11973	I thank the chairman. Honorable members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers. My question was addressed to the Deputy Transport Minister. Namely, the road route Sarajevo – Podgorica is included in the regional transport network of Southeast Europe, and the construction of the 2 Ship on Drina /Foca/ – /Hum/ Šcepan Polje is on the priority list of the South East European Development Plan. The main project of which is drawn up in line with the European Commission is the production of study documentation to improve this direction, Sarajevo – Foca and according to information that I have for the production of the project documentation, it has provided 1.7m euros, and the construction of a road of 23.5km would cost about 62m euros according to estimates. The route is planned to be completed in 2020 and the project documentation is under way and the deadline is 24 months. What I am interested in is – at what stage is currently the creation of a project documentation for the route of Sarajevo – Podgorica, i.e. these shares of Brod on Drina /Foca/ - /Hum/ Šcepan Polje, are the negotiations between representatives of BiH and Montenegro, i.e. are all the preconditions met in order to obtain a quality solution in this project? Is the position of the future bridge on Tara, i.e. the contact point, and are activities taken to provide financial resources needed to build this travel communication and what is expected to be the time of construction? We know that this is a road section that unfortunately took very many lives, which is very frequent and which, I think, really should be one of the priority regional projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11974	Thank you. Answer, Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11975	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. The following, project, development of projects and studies to improve traffic on the TNT comprehensive network on route two A, two B shares of Sarajevo – Foca – The Drina Ship, which includes the production of a study, an idea project and a major project for interstate bridge on the river Tari, is funded from IPA pre-accession instruments from 2011. The contract for the project in question was awarded to the consortiums of Aecom Inocsa(?) and Institute of Construction – IG. The consultant started his work and has already made an idea solution for the Brod section on Drina – Foča, i.e. Hum – Šcepan Polje in the length of 20.2 km and started making an idea project, i.e. the main project. Idea solutions and previous studies are under way for the Sarajevo-Foca - Ship in Drina, which remains at that level of production, because it is thus defined by purchase, public procurement and contract. For a sub-division involving a bridge across the Tara River, a contact point with Montenegro, the consultant made three variants of that bridge and we, uh, Montenegro on 24.02. sent a letter asking that they be determined which of these variants is the most favourable for them, because, and we chose from our side the variant so-called. BC3, which is, we consider to be the most favourable for making this bridge. After agreeing on the bridge solution, they would also agree on a contact point and sign a protocol on the point of contact. This would allow the consultant to access the development of a main project for a sub-division that includes the bridge. The European Commission has provided funds for the development of the project documentation for the stock in question after the EBRD has shown an interest in financing the project. The European Commission has also allocated a 4m-euro grant to Montenegro for project documentation to continue the project from the border to Plužin and further towards the interior of Montenegro. Project documentation is expected to be done and revised by the third month of 2017. The performance works on the Brod in Drina, or Foča – Hum, or Šcepan Polje, would last from one and a half to two years after the completion of the project documentation. A bridge across the Tara River would be financed by joint funds from Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11976	I thank the minister. Before we go to comment, I would ask all members of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputies to stick to the time set by the Rules of Procedure in response, I will indeed not interrupt anyone because I believe that every representative deserves a complete answer, but that the answer is being taken into account here in some way on time. Does the representative want to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11977	I'll just be brief and thanking the esteemed Deputy Minister for the exhaustive response, I hope it will be as you said it would be, even if not just the local population in Foca, but otherwise everyone who uses that travel stock that's really from horror movies. And I would only ask if I could get that answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11978	Thank you very much. I give my word to Senator Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11979	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. My question was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, he's not here today, but here I believe he has someone under his authority to answer. – What has the BiH Council of Ministers done specifically so far, what is it currently doing and when citizens of the Unsko-San canton can finally expect to see a solution to border crossing status with a special emphasis on solving the problem of long-running, waiting and harassing our citizens at the crossing of the Velika Kladuša, retegorising the Malanian crossing of Tržačka Rastela into the border crossing for passenger traffic, as well as the retegorisation of the Plazikur, Zagrad and Hadjin Potok, as well as the construction of infrastructure at these border crossings and under c) the inclusion of the Izačić border crossing list of crossings from the EU on which the traffic of plant and animal origin goods is allowed? A brief explanation. The problem with major crowds, these long delays and several-hour waitings in columns at the border crossings in the UN-San canton, especially at the border crossing of the Malijevac Velika Kladuma is indeed one of the major problems of the citizens in this area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the most frequent footing with the Republic of Croatia and the EU, and a special problem has occurred in 2013 and Croatia's entry into the EU since the citizens' longer and more detailed checks are being carried out. According to border police in six months, 2 million passengers cross this border crossing, over 500,000 passenger vehicles and over 30,000 cargo vehicles. 4 I have spoken and appealed more times here in Parliament so far, I have called for these problems to be finally solved, there have been some cases of insult and demeaning recorded recently, and we have an obligation to protect the rights and dignity of our people, our citizens waiting for about three hours at these border crossings. Some of the actions have been launched so far, so we've been on the spot and we've provided some funding in the budget, and we've started this retegorization, but there's still no final solution, and that's what our people see. What I particularly want to ask today is to reiterate that this is an unacceptable relationship with our citizens at these border crossings, I call on us to finally include this issue to the end. I call on us to put this as a priority to protect ourselves, the Council of Ministers has the opportunity to call on his colleagues and visit his colleagues in the Republic of Croatia, including the EU to finally put this on the agenda and to resolve this issue. And at the last session of Parliament I am also...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11980	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11981	to convene a joint session of two governments, the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia can hold a session... to be treated as a priority and can finally be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11982	I don't see the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Who has on behalf of the Council of Ministers the power to respond? Like this, I'm asking for a commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11983	Well, I'd like to, I really thought he had some authority to answer today, this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11984	Now we've asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11985	Yeah. Well, I'll, of course, re-provide this question again, deliver this initiative in writing, in writing, and again this way, I'll treat it in the next session. I wish we had solved this question so far that I don't have to burden myself for the fifth time, and here we are, all of us sitting here, but also all of our public one of the problems that I personally consider to be a much more technical nature than some others, I would say, essential. If there is an honest interest, the sincere will to resolve this issue could have been resolved long ago, but here you are, today for who knows which time I'm talking to you, I'm not going to stop talking about this issue and treat this issue until finally our institutions solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11986	Thank you. 5 I give the word to Agent Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11987	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. My question concerns the initiation, i.e. the renewal of Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuit against Serbia, I am asking the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. We have all witnessed in recent weeks that one significant number of legal experts, leaders of NGOs, university professors, etc. discusses the need and importance of renewing Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuit against Serbia. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina are Democrats and legalists and completely, I am convinced, committed to the values of peace, tolerance and the construction of the best possible good neighbourly relations unlike the individuals in power in Belgrade, our arguments were never tanks, planes, cannons, "Scorpians", "tigrov" etc. And it is our duty and our duty to seek and to fight for justice and for the truth. In that sense, as well as a large number of citizens of this country with contempt, we have received the latest threats that Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić has made towards the state of BiH by changing the thesis and accusing us even if we are initiating some political spiral of violence, which is both incorrect and inadmissible. With all this in mind, I think that all of us in the Council of Ministers and in this House should have an opinion on the matter, although I am fully aware of the legal procedure and the BiH Presidency has made a decision on the appointment of an agent who can act. There's less than a year left to take advantage of that possibility and I'm today...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11988	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11989	Therefore, I would now like to ask a concrete question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, however, as well as a colleague, given that I have unknown reasons that the chairman is not present at this time, I will ask you as the chairman of the House in accordance with the relevant business provisions that in cases where we cannot get answers, and we have all been business esteemed before you realize that we have a chance again without re-senting in writing at the next session to ask this question in order to get an answer as MPs to the questions we are asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11990	Thank you very much. Since the issue has also been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, this time I ask the members of the Council of Ministers, does anyone have for today's session the authority to answer certain questions? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. I ask all MPs who have a question in the future, and MPs, of course, who have a question to the Council of Ministers' chair to refer to whether they want a written response 6 or whether they will remain in response to the next session of the House of Representatives and, of course, the Kolega will be appointed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11992	So, we can now, in our business, conclude that we MPs strictly followed the Rules of Procedure within the appropriate time limit, we have not received an answer as to how the Rules of Procedure proposes, and we ask you, therefore, to allow us to renew this issue at the next session and in oral form we get an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11993	I give my word to MP Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11994	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My question is, within the framework of the BiH Council of Ministers' Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda in the Public Finance Sector, Taxation and Fiscal Sustainableness, it is envisaged to significantly improve the exchange of data between the four tax administrations with the aim of increasing tax collection and reducing the number of tax evasions through more exchanged information, and my question is – What is specifically done, i.e. how this activity is carried out and has the objective been achieved through concrete data?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11995	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11996	President-in-Office, members of the College, distinguished representatives and colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief and fit in in these two minutes, I hope. For the purpose of data exchange and the determination of the mode of useful cooperation between the tax administrations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the Administration for indirect, entity tax administrations and the Tax Administration of the Brcko District, 12.06.2013. the Memorandum of institutional cooperation and exchange of data on taxpayers was signed and the Coordination Body for the Interchange of Data was formed. The objective of this exchange was to allow access to certain data owned and other tax authorities in full, and... to the type of restrictions and selection of data. That a level of data exchange is now allowed for each taxpayer individually without the ability to download data in the reporting forms, which would contribute to effective and effective data use in order to improve the risk analysis process, detecting cases of evasion, fraud and improving tax collection. This exchange is based on the access of tax administrations to individual taxpayers' tax administrations by officials whose names are open to a user order, whose names are provided by the Coordination Authority to the parties to the signatories in terms of contact of persons for cooperation between the organisational units performing control and investigative actions, returns, and on the forced collection of taxes, including joint activities on the mentioned transactions as prescribed in the Memorandum. By means of the Coordination Body of the Implicit Taxation Authority, it pointed to the ineffectiveness of such 7 types of data exchange, as it is possible, I have already said, access to the individual obligor, and is suggested to intensify activities in order to exchange data for all taxpayers, which would allow analyses of parallel indicators by all bonds and facilitate... risk-hazarding taxpayers, conduct control and all other actions. To improve these applications and use the same of more than one user, it is normal to provide adequate technical solutions and financial resources. The issue of improving the exchange of data between these authorities is included as well as one of the priority activities in the reform, the Council of Ministers' Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda, which was probably a motive for the asked parliamentary question. Here, we have also proposed the formation of an interresor working group by representatives of tax authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will define data exchange modes. On several occasions, the Ministry of Finance sent letters from 09.11.2015, indicating the need for an early establishment of the above working group. I must say that the proposal for members for this working group has been given by all tax authorities except the Tax Administration of Republika Srpska, who informed the Administration as coordinator for all necessary activities that will lead to the improvement of the exchange, and can also be achieved through the Coordination Body established by the Memorandum. For the purpose of ensuring continued cooperation, the Ministry of Finance will continue to insist, under its legislation, on the establishment of an inter-resor working group which will... as it is envisaged by the Reform Agenda, and all in order to advance those actions and procedures leading to transparency and the location of risk-bearing taxpayers. In accordance with the business codification, if the esteemed representative expresses his dissatisfaction with the response received and asks for an answer in writing, we will also deliver it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11997	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11998	Here, my question is worded before this affair that shakes the retail of the entire world public, this affair in Panama, so it was more potent on the subject of tax evasion, meaning one prevention and combat. I see that, that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry took some activities in coordination between the tax administrations, but I meant specifically what was done in terms of increasing income and I thought it would see it, to be expressed by figures. Although I can see that the entity governments are already responding. But here which one of these tax evasion fighters, I think there has to be stronger activity in order that we don't get what's going on on globally and in that sense, because the answer was a debt, because I'd like to take it out a little bit, I'd like to get it in writing and with this particular data in terms of tax returns, so do you have any indications about tax evasion, etc. I think the minister understands the tendency of my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u11999	Thank you very much. I give my word to Agent Predrag Kožul. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12000	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you. My question is also addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so I'm still going to ask him here. The 2015 Reform Agenda for BiH – In 2018, it foresees in two its chapters as one of the key reform measures to reduce the burden on work. This measure is important in order to achieve the competitiveness of domestic companies and to encourage employment. It is foreseen that part of the tax burden on labour is replaced by additional indirect taxes, that this is necessary to quote a single statement from the Reform Agenda – A significant reduction in the contribution would reduce labour costs, help attract investors and lead to more employees in the formal sector and reduce the dominant employment in the informal sector. At the same time, as I listen to these days, we get the proposal to address the issue of funding for public broadcasters by additional workloading, by introducing some kind of media tax. As far as I know this proposal has come to the Council of Ministers and I am interested – Do you believe that such a solution, which is evident in the conflict with the fundamental assumptions of the Reform Agenda, is acceptable or given the seriousness of financial but other problems within the Public TV System, needs to be sought for different and harmonised system solutions to address this problem? Thank you, that's a question, I'm afraid I won't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12001	Here, since we don't have one again, the question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, does the MP want to comment behind it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12002	Well, here, let me make a quick comment. My question is also a written answer, and I expect a written answer, but I reserve the right to ask this question again at the next session as an oral question. One of the reasons why I ask this question in this way is this Memorandum, which we have received from the Public TV System Committee, this harmonised proposal has been received by our Transport and Communications Commission. You know that we here often refer to the question of language use in public TV systems, you will see at this Memorandum of the Public TV System Committee that one language of the people in BiH is missing in their title. This was an additional motive for me to problem not only financial problems within public TV systems, but also for the overall problem and the need to solve the issue of the Public TV System, including funding, systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12003	I give my word to agent Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12004	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, ministers, distinguished guests. My question is the Minister of Finance and Treasury – On the basis of which criteria and which legal basis the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration shall adopt a Decision establishing the provisional coefficients for the allocation of funds from the Single Account for the period January-March '16. and Decisions on the temporary distribution of toll revenue for highways remaining in the Single Account Sub-account, Official Messenger, No 67/15.? Why do temporary 9 coefficients differ in two of those decisions? Is that contrary to the Law on System and Direct Taxation?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12005	The answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12006	Another hello to everyone. The request of the esteemed representative implies two separate answers and two separate questions... two answers. The first is the decision to set provisional coefficients for the allocation of funds from the Single Account for the period January-March 2016, so I will try to frame myself again. The concept of the distribution of income from indirect taxes is prescribed by the Law on an indirect taxation system and the technical aspect of the distribution prescribed by the Law on Payments to the Single Account in the distribution of income. According to the above... to repay the bonds of part of the income for the budget of the institutions... highways. The remaining amount of revenue shall be shared between the entities and the Brcko District by the coefficients established by the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Board. I would like to remind you that the decision of the High Representative of 01.07.2017 has set the share of Brcko District in the distribution of... income fixed 3.55%, while the income allocation coefficients that go to entities are determined according to the share of final consumption shown in VAT applications. The methodology of calculating the coefficient... income to entities and... the adoption of coefficients by the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Board are prescribed by the IAS Regulation on the calculation of the coefficients. The coefficient is... from the data in the final consumption delivered by the Management for the last three months' VAT applications. In the event that the Management Board does not make a decision in due time on the coefficients for the next quarter, the coefficient(s) shall apply. from the previous quarter. If the Governing Board adopts a decision during the quarter, the Management shall be obliged to carry out a calculation of the allocations from the old to the new coefficients. In particular, for the purposes of calculating the allocation coefficient for... Decisions for the period January-March 2016 used data on the final consumption of VAT applications relating to the September-List and the trial last year. The decision was taken at the 1st session of this year, which took place on 26 January 2016, and the Management carried out a calculation of the allocation by new coefficients for the period 01.01.-26.01. Secondly, the answer to the second question of the Decision on the temporary distribution of revenues for highways. A dedicated highway toll was introduced and applied according to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted on 01.07.2019. Since this is a dedicated character, these revenues are collected on specific sub-accounts with the Central Bank, and their distribution is made on the basis of the Decision on the temporary distribution of toll revenues for highways by the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Administration. According to that Decision, the revenue of the dedicated toll shall be shared as follows. Of the total revenue, 10% is retained in the sub-account of the Single Account of the Administration, and is used to settle revenues after determining the final Methodology of Distribution. The remaining 90% is shared between entities and Brcko District in a way that 59 belongs to the Federation, 39 Republika Srpska, and 2% to the Brcko District. In view of the fact that the amount retained in the sub-account is accumulated over time, the Management Board shall discharge these sub-accounts at certain intervals. The last discharge was made on the basis of a Decision of the Management Board from 29.07.2015 final for 01.04.2016. The balance of retained income is 11487.064,55 marks. The Management Board has failed to reach a consensus in relation to the final methodology of the purpose toll, and a provisional decision shall apply. 10 So, to your question whether there were violations – there were no violations of the law and does not mean this problem, one and the other, they are regulated by different laws which, due to the short time, I have narrowed down and said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12007	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment on the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12008	I'm not so sure, so I'm going to ask a written answer. You can see that the split in two decisions differs. By one percent, 63.57 to the Federation, 3.55 Brcko District and 32.88 to Republika Srpska. And this toll belongs to the fourth group of indirect these revenues, at least it is shown in the documents of the Directorate for indirect taxation. And, therefore, why have these coefficients changed, why the Federation for there... out of 10 fening gets 59%, Republika Srpska 39%, and Brcko District 2%. So we have for the same group of income two different coefficients. Furthermore, as the minister said, it is true that the distribution is carried out in the Law, and here I will quote Article 21(3) point (iii) that part of the remaining amount transferred to the Federation, Republika Srpska and Brcko District is determined on the basis of their share in the final consumption shown in the tax returns for additional value. Indirect Taxation Administration has... final consumption every month, and based on data from the Indirect Taxation Administration, the Management Board should not even bring...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12009	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12010	the distribution should be carried out in accordance with the law, i.e. The ultimate consumption. And they themselves admit that since August 2015 they have been unable to make a decision. I think it's necessary to apply the law and not depend on someone's will. I'm going to ask the minister to provide me with a written answer, so we're going to continue to develop this problem. We'll see, that one, where we'll be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12011	I give my word to Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12012	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. My question concerns Mr. Adil Osmanović, Mr. Adil Osmanovic, who is referring to... the state of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of BiH. In fact, the Agency has not had a director and deputy for a long time, and my question concerns that. – Why has the choice of director and deputy director not been made, that is, why has the official of duty been appointed under the provisions laid down by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices? 11 This question has nothing to do with any interest in being or not being a director, but, above all, because the efficient work of this agency can be a clear wind in the back of Bosnia and Herzegovina's pharmaceutical industry, and its inefficient work can be a major distraction. Namely, Article 83. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH has been prescribed that the Council of Ministers lays down an essential list of medicines for at least two years, of course with the consent of entity ministries, or the Department of Health in Brcko District, which unfortunately has never been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12013	Answer, BiH Civil Affairs Minister Mr. Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12014	Thank you, Chairman. Honored members of the College, esteemed MPs and MPs. The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH was established by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 58/08, as the authorised body responsible for the fields of medicines and medical resources. The agency started working 01.05.2009. Nataša Grubiša was appointed first director of the Medicines Agency on 18 December 2008 for a term of office of 4 years. The mandate expired on 18 December 2012. Following the end of the term of office, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs issued a public ad for the appointment of a new director and deputy director of the Agency, and in 2013-2014 the process was not brought to an end. At its 37th session, held on 30.12.2015, the BiH Council of Ministers reached a solution to the resolution of Nataša Grubiša and appointed BiH Director for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources Dr. Aleksandar Zolak, who will serve as director of the Agency until the appointment of directors. In line with the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers at the 30th session held on 05.11.2015, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs announced a public ad for the appointment of the director and deputy director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which conducted the selection procedure and the establishment of the best candidate ranking for the appointment of directors and deputy director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of BiH. Since Article 17(3) of the Medicinal Products Act provides that the Director and Deputy Director shall appoint the Council of Ministers of BiH on a proposal from the Professional Council of the Medicines Agency, a ranking list with the most successful candidates for the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency, we have forwarded the Expert Council to follow-up. About the other part of the question – which is why it is like V.D. the Director appointed person who does not comply with the conditions laid down in Article 17(5), I find the following. Article 17(5) criteria for the appointment of directors include university education in the field of pharmacies or medicine and relevant experience for at least 5 years. With this in mind, I would like to inform you that the acting director of the Agency, Dr. Aleksandar Zolak, is an expert in fertility and sterility, according to the Versus of the University Clinical Centre of Republika Srpska, has more than 12 years of working experience in dealings with the VSS and thus fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 17(5) of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12015	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? 12
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12016	Well, here's to short. I am pleased that the minister has assured me that I was wrong in the second part of the question, but here, Mr. Minister, I encourage you to complete this process at the very least for helping Bosnia and Herzegovina's pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12017	Thank you. With an apology, I give counsel Staši Košarac, for he is according to the order of the questions raised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12018	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and others present in the O.R. I had the goal of asking a parliamentary question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but I appreciate that there is sufficient capacity here for the Council of Ministers to give us an answer to the asked parliamentary question, estimating that five ministers from the Council of Ministers and several deputy ministers are present at the Council of Ministers. The question is: Has the BiH Council of Ministers discussed the draft law on the BiH Constitutional Court and the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Criminal Law proposed by the SNSD and SDS parliamentary clubs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and when can it be expected that the Council of Ministers to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should give the required opinion on these legislative proposals? Namely, after the 24th session of this House, held on 03.02, no negative opinions of the Constitutional Commission on the draft laws on the BiH Constitutional Court and amending the BiH Criminal Law were adopted, the Constitutional Commission of this House reviewed these two legislative proposals this year and requested an extension of the deadline for submission of opinions until the Council of Ministers was declared on these legal proposals. Since then, even though it has been a month and a half, I have no information on these legal proposals that you know are being sent to the parliamentary procedure on 17 December last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12019	Thank you. Since there is no chairman of the Council of Ministers, does the representative want to comment? It stays, so, in response to getting it in writing, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12020	First of all, I think it is not good that we do not have the Council of Ministers today, given the fact that we are witnessing how many MPs were intended to ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I am not sure that there is now no capacity to get an answer from the Council of Ministers, because we have a deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, i.e. 5 ministers in the Council of Ministers, and I think there are conditions for Parliament to get information on whether the Council of Ministers discussed the issue. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12021	Thank you. We didn't have any authority from the Council of Ministers, or from the chairman, to have someone give an answer. We're moving on to the next question. I give my word to my representative, Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12022	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. International Women's Day in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and even slightly wider, is celebrated in a way that also sends flowers and candy bouquets to the members of the sub-represented, but the more beautiful, gender, sends or hands flowers, bouquets of flowers and candy with congratulations for that day. On that day, 008.03.2016, the Commission for Gender Equality did not celebrate but organised a conference that, by which we have pointed to a systematic violation of women's rights, and thus the whole society, because they are not women's problems, but society as a whole. At that session, we showed at the conference what are all rights that are not respected, which are rights that are not treated at all in Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws and are concerned by the most numerous minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are women, which are slightly more than 51% in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We pointed to unequal maternity benefits, we pointed to the lack of a gynaecological obstetric chair for women with disabilities, we pointed to women, girls of Roma women who have been disproved, multiplely discriminated, we pointed to a number of issues that only the Commission for Gender Equality and a few present, or a member of the Council of Ministers is trying to point out. We also pointed out what is being prepared for us by the Interresor Working Group for amending the Election Law, where they want us to take a few steps back to their proposal to amend the Election Law. What does this have to do with Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers? There were over 80 members of the more beautiful sub-represented sex present at the conference. Some of them were also representatives of international organisations, women in positions that were so disappointed in an informal conversation with the fact that Mr. Chairman had directed this 8. Marta candy and a bouquet of flowers, and in her signature as chairman of the Council of Ministers. While several days earlier we had various meetings and... with the distinguished minister from Sweden, Mrs Aida Hadžialić, who is on several occasions...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12023	Time. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12024	Bosnia and Herzegovina advised and gave the message that every cent should be known where and to what purposes it goes and that, after all, it is the task of all of us. I wonder if Mr. Chairman, the esteemed Mr. Zvizdić, the very nice gesture, the sending of flowers and candy, funded from his own budget or from Budžet Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12025	Since we do not have a chairman of the Council of Ministers whether the representative wishes to comment, then whether... 14
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12026	Well, I understand that only the chairman can answer this question, I reserve the right to ask this same question in the same form at the next session in oral form.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12027	I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12028	Thank you. Minister of Justice. Dear Ministers, as you know in Chapter 23 Aki, that is, the EU's acquis concerns the judiciary and fundamental rights of citizens. Any country wishing to become an EU member is required to corporate legal property in its own legislation and in its own practice. Even... legislation doesn't mean anything unless it flows into good practice, and it can't be translated if we don't have a sufficient number of people who know how to apply these European standards. Simplifiedly, we can prescribe France, Germany, Finland, and which you will, the laws, we can do this by emergency procedure and end it all by the end of the year, but if we don't train people to properly apply these laws we will have bad practice, we will not progress towards the EU. The best example is the European Convention on Human Rights, it is even part of our Constitution, but it is so weakly applied by both the executive and our judiciary, and therefore we have a huge number of disputes before the European Court of Human Rights. Some will say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not so bad compared to Belarus, Moldova, Turkey, Tid. True, but that only confirms the rule – the worse a country is in the application of the European Convention, it is further from EU membership. Belarus, Moldova and Turkey may be worse than we are but are still on the European path. In last session, we saw that Bosnia and Herzegovina did not start the process of applying the Interlaken Declaration(?). And Brighton(?) but in the cabinet of the Chair of the Council of Ministers did not even know what these conventions were, and they require extensive education from all state authorities, including the judicial authorities... The European Court of Human Rights, in order to reduce the degree of misapplication of the Convention and thereby the number of proceedings before the European Court of Justice. So now I ask you – What actions have been taken so far to increase the level of readiness and education of relevant officials at all levels of government for the purpose of full implementation of Chapter 23 Aki, in particular with regard to the protection of citizens' fundamental rights, and what are the plans for capacity building in this field, so that negotiations on this chapter will not be welcomed unprepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12029	Thank you. Answer, BiH Justice Minister, Mr. Grubeć. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12030	Honorable president, distinguished MPs, MPs, Council of Ministers colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Clearly, the process of harmonising legislation with the provisions of Aki is the most complex and long-term work in the overall process of European integration, since it practically never ends because Aki is constantly developing and expanding in parallel with EU development. 15 Also effective implementation of EU legislation in the future will be the basis for assessing Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness to move to candidate country status as a full membership. As Minister of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am not able to appreciate the willingness of relevant officials, civil servants and employees, and the BiH Ministry of Justice is not responsible for organising, nor is it carrying out the training of civil servants, but because of the exceptional importance that the area... of legislation has for the overall process of European integration in our country, training provided by... and the Agency for State Service. education is done with the intention to ensure the adoption of knowledge and skills necessary to carry out the tasks relating to European integration processes. It can therefore be concluded that civil servants, whose business needs to know about this matter, have passed training in the field of European integration, i.e. training on harmonisation of legislation with the provisions of Aki. The harmonisation of legislation with EU gains is, as I have already stated, a long-term process so that the improvement of this area will have to be monitored by such dynamic movements, which ultimately means lifelong learning. Since we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina only in the beginnings of harmonising legislation with Aki, it is difficult to assess the level of skills and preparedness of the staff, but we have certainly shown the ability to organise education and teaching of civil servants. I would especially like to point out that the Justice Department officials have been trained in respect of the respect of fundamental rights, especially by estimating these issues in the preparation of legal regulations. All adopted opinions on prepared regulations, as well as reports, have been delivered to international bodies in this area, and from the competence of this Ministry show the willingness of civil servants to access, through interinstitutional cooperation at horizontal and vertical level, the implementation of Chapter 23 Aki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12031	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12032	I do. I thank the Honorable Minister for his comprehensive response, I just want to remind you, it's not only about civil servants but also about judicial officials. Their decision is specifically prescribed and mandatory. Minister, I know how things work in the West, and I'm telling you, you're nowhere near ready. When the Court of Justice in London decided on a request for defence to release a former member of the presidency of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina from custody, the Court asked the British Prosecutor's Office for evidence of new circumstances that may require that the request for release from custody be refused. And with us, defense courts are asking for proof of new circumstances to put an end to detention. This is completely distorted because the European Convention, which is characterized by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, requires that the court is satisfied at all times that there are reasons for detention and not that there are reasons against detention. Also in the same procedure in London, more than 300 times on hearings, the terms "political motivation" or "politically mounted process" were mentioned, and these claims were also proven, as the Court stated in a liberating verdict that the prosecution, I quote, is "or not competent or politically motivated", and the Court forbids us from defending these words at all. Dear Minister, we are not prepared for this chapter. Please take measures as soon as possible, as from your jurisdiction... according to the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12033	Time. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12034	in order for our European... not to be slowed down, because European institutions will take all these failures into account and each of the 28 members can at any time point point point at them and slow down or stop our European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12035	Thank you. At this point, we have exhausted asking questions and answers, or comments. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The previous agenda has been downloaded: Point 10. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in dual-use goods – Proposer: Council of Ministers, (first reading), in accordance with the request of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH. Point 11. Proposal for a law on the control of foreign trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, (first reading), in accordance with the request of the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH. Point 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in accordance with the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The following are added to the agenda: point 12. Proposal for a report on the Interresor Working Group's order for amending the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-19-1004/16, dated 31.03.2016. Point 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China from grant of grants, No: 01,02-05-2-960/16, of 25.03.2016. The following are added: point 7. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-340/16, from 01.03.2016. with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Point 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, Law No: 01-02-1-742/16, from 03.03.2016, (first reading), with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Ombudsman – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-610/16, dated 18.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12036	I thank the chairman. On the basis of Article 71(1), I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH include a new item on the agenda of the 27th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: The report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Because today we are on our agenda under point 15. Consideration of the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH would be useful and useful if this distinguished House, MPs and MPs, before considering the report on the work of the Independent Committee, were introduced to the Report of the Interim Joint Committee, which, in accordance with our work and the Rules of Procedure, established the Report with certain conclusions and I believe that today, as representatives and MPs, we should identify and familiarise ourselves with this Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12037	Thank you very much. Denis Bećirović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12038	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Points 18, 19 and 20 of today's agenda are mandatory items of the agenda in accordance with Article 70 (1) and Article (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Given that these are, therefore, mandatory points of the agenda that have passed the procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we of the SDP Club believe that these points and the definition of the agenda should be treated in the same way as all other points of the agenda. To be more precise, therefore, in all previous mandates and in this term, we have always defined these agenda points in a way that is clear and how this point is defined, as the proposings have proposed. In this case there is no title of these points except that it is given only in numbers. I do not recall any secret documents in order to possibly use Article 96(4), it is therefore about legitimate parliamentary proposals in accordance with Articles 7, 8, 10 and other members of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. And we believe that MPs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, should be treated in the same way as all other authorised promoters here in the parliamentary procedure. To conclude, I think that we should either be consistent or mark all the points of the agenda with numbers or that all the points of the agenda should be addressed in the way it has been in all previous mandates and in this term until this session. I think that way, and I've talked to some representatives of NGOs, media, etc., and we'll help them in part to know what the agenda of the session is. Therefore, the proposal of the SDP is that these three points, as mandatory points of the agenda, be addressed in the way it has been done in all previous mandates and the current course of this mandate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12039	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12040	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I really didn't know what Denis was gonna talk about because I came in, I was outside the gym. The same as Mr. Denis Bećirović. The diapazon of rights and obligations of MPs is great. It is the right and obligation of MPs to propose, or to work from legal acts, through initiatives and beyond. That's what gave him the general legislation of the Constitution, through the law, to our Rules of Procedure. And since the rights and obligations of MPs are so necessary, and at least correctly, that we know what it is, what it refers to and that, if nothing from the title, those who do not receive materials can read what the parliamentary initiative is about. This dry writing of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative means nothing to those who have only this paper in their hands and not the material for the session. And there's journalists, there's media outlets, they're reporting. And please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the items of the agenda shall be treated equally, i.e. each title shall be addressed as addressed by the authorising officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12041	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12042	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil's. In her reasoning, she stated that there are conditions to consider this item of the agenda. However, I will point to the fact that this is a request that was delivered this morning and a report that bears yesterday's date, but I was delivered to us all only this morning. And what's interesting, we've had a chance in the media to track extremely sharp, aggressive, I can even say, atakae Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil on the matter of the Independent Committee's shift requirements, but here it is now tempered and I find it quite lenient. I still feel that this should be approached in a much more soberer way with much more preparation, not like this to impose on the House, therefore, at the last minute, given that this is an extremely important issue. So, it's about the Independent Committee, and as I like to be direct, I'll be direct again, we all know that there's been a big, big change in attitudes and mitigation after OHR representatives pointed out to some MPs that it's not a good idea to play with the Independent Committee, that it was one of the conditions for signing the agreement to establish this Independent Committee and other bodies of the police structure, independent bodies of the police structure, one of the conditions for signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That this, the way we originally had the opportunity to see it, actually indicates that there was political pressure on the Independent Committee, which completely denies the whole purpose, or the entire independence of the Committee. So, uh, we're all about opening this issue up and considering, saying everything we think about it, but not in a way that puts this on the agenda at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12043	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12044	Well, this is all that the esteemed colleague Arnaut has to say, is it supposed to be the subject of debate if this point is on the agenda? And what Mr. Arnaut states is that I had some moves that were sharp or unsharp, they weren't, it's not an absolute fact, on the other hand I'm not the only member of that Interim Joint Commission, there were six members, so the position was unanimous on all matters. I therefore find it inappropriate that you, as chairman, have allowed the story report that has not yet been adopted, in accordance with the Report, if the debate is opened, I will explain to Mr Arnaut everything to the fact that we have analysed and in accordance with that fact, we have brought a report and conclusions as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12045	Let me just say to the honourable representative, that you all have the right to discuss the agenda and the corrections have been applied to you, we have nothing to allow anyone here, nor to deny space, or time to argue, or for replicas. In this case, we have Damir Arnaut, the correction of the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12046	Yes, for the first time, it was mine, my correction to the wrong quote referred to Mrs. Gasal-The Vražalica as saying that there are conditions for this to be considered today. I've just explained that there are no and now a colleague is offering to explain to me, I mean a colleague who has advocated that this Commission has formed and participated in its work, for months familiar with the subject, and now offers to explain something to me in haste about the materials she submitted this morning. And I agree that this should be a comprehensive debate at least as exhaustive as your interviews were in Liberation a few weeks ago, when I say again, very aggressively to the Independent Committee and the whole concept of independence of that Committee and yesterday's interview in "Freedom" equally exhaustive but much, much, much less aggressive. According to that, uh, that was the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12047	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12048	Well, the correction of the wrong allegation refers to a colleague of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil's that we were in the Committee of Unanimity. We didn't, I didn't even vote in favour of this today's proposal to the Commission, but I was, in the least, restrained for not being convinced that what we did at the Committee should result in this very conclusion by the Commission. We, I will refer to the agenda, we have the agenda item today – Report on the work of this Independent Commission, this is an opportunity for all MPs to discuss this report equally, to analyse this Report, that eventually members or chairman of the Independent Commission answer some questions, so this will be a much better moment, or we will have at some of the next sessions possibly much more information, and we will be much better prepared to possibly discuss the request of the Committee here, and we will vote. So my proposal as a member of the Committee, who disagreed with this conclusion, is that today we are only discussing the Report of the Independent Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12049	Thank you. Maja Gasal, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12050	I must again point out that I am sorry that we are entering this kind of replication and this kind of debate over what the proposal for the inclusion of the new agenda is, rather than a fundamental debate on the very report that we as the Commission have brought. It is true that Mr. Kožul and Mr. Karamatić for a while avoided attending the session at all because he did not answer that he was a member on behalf of the representatives of the Croatian people if he was not from the HDZ or from that coalition, so they avoided even coming to meetings where the members who had confirmed both the House as members and members of the Interim Joint Committee were present. Well, after a while, they decided to participate in the work of the Interim Joint Committee, so he came one, the other was not, and it was true that the gentleman was restrained at the last session of the report, but it was also true that you were coming to the meetings and going away, so it was no longer possible to determine whether you were going back to the session or not, you were avoiding your work, so that everything was written in the Report, and this is really something that should be discussed wider if it was included today or if it was included in the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12051	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, the violation of the Rules of Procedure Damir Arnaut, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12052	I thank the chairman. I have not had a chance to use, therefore, a member of the Rules of Procedure relating to the insult of MPs. For some time now, we have been suffering this from colleague Gasal-Vražalica-Devil to instruct some of the latest intentions, especially to other members of the Croatian people, that someone does not want her because she is not HDZ, etc. As far as I am aware, absolutely no one has ever expressed the view that Mrs Gasal-The Vražalica should not sit in that Commission because it is from one party or from another party, nor has anyone questioned its nationality or ethnicity. The only thing that I know was that there was a fact that it wasn't, that there was only one Bošnjak, and that without it, the Commission couldn't function completely, etc. So we've been listening to this for a long time, but I think it's really an insult to the MPs, and that's why I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12053	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12054	Well, here I am not going to refer to what my colleague said with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but by correcting the wrong assumption. I personally will not speak for my colleague Karamatić, I have not avoided working in this commission, but in any case on this commission I had an unusual way of calling. Usually, we are relatively few six colleagues, usually a little consulted when one of the colleagues can attend because of his other obligations to the work of the Committee, with this commission the calls were taken or left. Whenever I could take it myself, when I had to leave it alone because of earlier obligations, but I was sufficiently involved in this commission's work to understand its extreme implications that I would not be talking about here too much, I'm only talking about the concrete fact that I participated in the Committee's work as much as I was allowed.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12055	Senad Šepić debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12056	I would only support the reactions of some of my predecessors related to this new practice, related to the condition of certain agenda points. Let's say, I've been initiating this initiative since December, so let's say I at first didn't know what it was about. We do a lot of things here, so we can't remember the exact same protocol numbers. So I would ask you, therefore, that in this sense this practice is back to what we've had so far, it's also for the sake of us sitting here and especially for the sake of the public and for the sake of the organizations that follow it, generally doing the media. I think we don't mind that, and it's very useful, and that's why I'm calling you all in this sense, and I'm joining all my colleagues who have so precisely recognized one of these new practices right now, and I don't think we're taking this step forward, and I think that this would make us take a step back, and so I'm asking you to go back to that old practice exactly the way MPs are asking for some of their activities and some of their things to discuss and discuss here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12057	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Here, let's briefly refer to the proposals of the MPs who were. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devila proposal to include a point in the agenda – Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here I would also be praying as the chairperson of the distinguished colleague in view of all that we have heard, and in fact the position of the College is also that we have just received this in the materials this morning and that today we have a point in the agenda – the report on the work of the Independent Committee, which I think is 15th, means the 15th item of the agenda, and we think that we should really discuss this report and the Work Plan, so that the representatives all clearly say, in some way, their views, to be convinced that after that, here, at the next session, we should discuss this report, which in any case you and as chairman, or members of the ad hoc commission to submit to this House. So, here, we wouldn't be making any statements about this today. We suggest that the College's position be for the next session, which is scheduled for 27. 22 As for Mr Denis Bećirović's proposal, Mr Zaim Backović, and finally Mr Senad Šepić, they are in the same way and refer to the same points, those are points 18, 19 and 20, namely the names of the initiative. I would like to remind you that even when we adopted the previous agenda, we had this name in certain initiatives, and then the College discussed the names of the initiative, because just to remind you, here right now I have one here I'm going to show you, we discussed it yesterday at the College in an extended composition,... the initiative has more than half the page, the name of the initiative. So, we as Kolega, the Secretariat, our Service is in no way possible, nor wants to say what the title of the initiative is, and we simply opted for the initiative to bear the name and name and number, everything, the materials means all we have is available to our media, so everything is on our site as well as the agenda. Everyone who wants to get to know each other has a chance to get to know each other. The position of the College was to define the initiative in this way, yesterday we had the issue open and by the representatives, or the president of Mr. Mešić's SDP, and we agreed unanimously on this and in future we warned the representatives that the initiatives would be short, that the name could not contain more than a single sentence, or we could say an extended sentence, and that everything else contained an explanation or material and that attitude we were unanimous and today I am giving an answer in terms of the position of the Extended College and in which case these initiatives were listed. Here I do not want, in any way, to say otherwise, to refer, or according to the position of the Expansive College, so that once again I only remind the representatives that the future in the title of the initiative is taking care of the title. And right now I am declaring the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12058	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12059	Here, here you are, Denis Bećirović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12060	I thank the chairman. So I am convinced that the goal of all who have discussed the agenda in this matter is really correct and well-intentioned, we are not asking anything other than to retain the rights that we have been given to the current Rules of Procedure. Since I've reported in on business intervention, I'm going to specify the following provisions precisely. Article 70(2) is therefore a mandatory item of the agenda that has passed the procedure. No member of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives even indicates the possibility to treat the mandatory points of the agenda in a double way. So they all need to be consistent and treated the same way. I would also like to quote Article 27 (h) and (j). So h)... – that the chairman or chairman of the dom takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and under j) – creates assumptions for the full exercise of the rights and the exercise of the duties of MPs within the competence of the House. We therefore, using this Rules of Procedure, would like to invite you to, we have no one else, to protect our rights in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Because we are going to be in a position that we, as MPs, as mandated legislators in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, will not be in the same equal status as those of the BiH Council of Ministers. So we invite you to put us in the same relationship, to define today's agenda the way we suggested, and on the other hand, here's what we're saying is that we accept your suggestion that the future of formulating certain points of the agenda might be shorter. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12061	Thank you. I'm going to repeat once again the position of the Extended College, that the points are equally treated, so they're part of the agenda as mandatory points, with these views and arguments that I've just given. At this point, we have Saša Magazinović's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and otherwise, as chairman, I will always make an effort when I am in office to keep it in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12062	I thank the chairman. I'm referring to Section 70, point 2, so right now we're starting to clear up, I don't think there's a bad will, bad intentions on your part, and I can agree with what you said about the availability of the material and the possible problem of the length of the title. But here, let you as a College prescribe this gauge, because what you just said is one sentence, and even an extended one can end up in half a page, here's a rule, and we'll all respect it, so we don't have that slow. But until that's how it's going to be, the dots should be treated in the same way as everyone else, because it would be a little awkward to have, here's the 3rd point of the agenda – Bill's proposal number: 01.02-26/15. So write it down, and whatever the College says, we'll respect it, and by then here's to having equal status with the other points.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12063	Šefik Džaferović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12064	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think there's a bad intention either on the part of the College or from colleagues and fellow MPs, here it's only a matter of agreements on the future work of this House. And I ask you not to do these initiatives, here today look at all the three initiatives we have, and colleagues of Šepić and two initiatives by colleagues Bećirović, none of these initiatives have their official name. There's a description of the initiative, a content that can have a page, it can have several rows, the law has its name. We ask only of you and it was yesterday the Extended College decided, call your initiative as you think you call it, let it be the length of the title or the term common as the laws are named and it will be so appointed in the agenda. And that's the essence and that conclusion you'll get in writing, that's yesterday's decision of the Enlargement College of the House of Representatives and it will be signed and delivered to all MPs. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12065	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12066	I want to believe that we all have good intentions, and in this sense I want to say that our aim is to use existing business rights defined by the Rules of Procedure, and in that sense 24 we do nothing that has not been practice and in previous sessions and previous mandates. We have looked at the agendas of numerous sessions, I would like this colleague Džaferović to hear as he refers to his...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12067	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12068	A colleague, Džaferović, that's all in line with the Rules of Procedure when you speak immediately, it's nice to notice, and now that I'm back, so since I'm making a correction to the wrong quote for you, it's kind of logical for me to hear what I'm correcting. So, I don't dispute what you were saying that maybe some initiatives are slightly and extensively presented, but I remind you in the past term when you were in opposition that we were also, I can show you the agenda, and these initiatives had extensive formulations, so it never occurred to us to sort of regulate it in this way and to make certain restrictions. In doing so, as previous colleagues have said, we do not escape at all from you adding any additional criteria within the College and we will stick to such criteria because you are able to define certain things more precisely, if they are not already precisely defined by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12069	Nikola Lovrinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12070	Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome Mrs. Chairman and all my colleagues and colleagues present at the House of Representatives in this Chamber. So, I'm sorry that I didn't succeed in my idea at the College in an extended board, and even on some of the committees, so I'm asking us to use the 170th article that says, so – when it's being directed and it's being directed to... the Chairman of the House can direct it to, so to whom it's addressed. So we find ourselves in a situation, let's say, and at the Committee on European Integration, now I'm sorry, I'm probably going to use the possibility of this article next time, that the initiative when it's addressed to the Council of Ministers directly through the Chairman's House is headed there and that we are not discussing, therefore, initiatives like this and that, to put it this way, we are ruling here whether this is right or not. And on the Constitutional Court we had the opportunity to give one of the initiatives, so when there was no one to discuss anything, no commission, then give it to the Constitutional Legal Commission as if the Constitutional Justice Commission was a trash basket. So sometimes we have you, so I don't get it wrong, and that's what I was saying, so there's no one to discuss, and then there's an initiative that sometimes doesn't look like you get that the Constitutional Commission has to say that it has a constitutional basis for an initiative. It doesn't make sense, therefore, that you bring the Commission in without the application of Article 170 and we can make that thing right (2), here's why we don't use it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12071	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12072	I don't know if I'm going to help or help in this discussion, but I really, for example, don't know what's unclear in the formulation – establishing a parliamentary group on this and that? We had an identical 25 title in December when we put it on the agenda, discussed it, discussed it, addressed it to the committees, received opinions, eventually agreed to postpone the plea and that today, along with this updated, updated material that I have sent to all MPs, we can declare ourselves. I really don't know, if anyone else can teach me how to do it precisely, I'm very busy receiving, uh, positive suggestions from anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12073	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12074	Since I didn't understand you very well at first whether my proposal to include a new item of the agenda in accordance with Article 71(1), whether or not I remind you of Article 72 and by breaking it, do I realize that you have violated Article 72, each item, or proposed changes to the agenda, and after the MPs express their views on this, Dom votes on any proposed amendment. I demand that this point be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12075	I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Here on the insistence, we have tried to explain and state the position, in a way, and the College and the position of the Expansive College and on matters and names, but this time we are putting the proposal to include the report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm asking for a vote. Of the 42 present – for 16, v 18, abstention 8. The Federation of BiH 15 for, 12 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 1 for, 6 against, 7 abstentions. There's no general majority. I find the inclusion proposal not accepted _____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 42 present – for 18, against 19, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 14 for, 13 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 4 for, 6 against, 4 abstentions. There's no general majority. I agree that the report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to review the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is not included on the agenda. I find that the 27th session of the House has the following: 26 Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 26th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-26/15, of 28.01.2016. (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-37/15, of 16/02/2016. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-929/16, of 21.03.2016. (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-134/15, since 01.03.2016. (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-340/16, from 01.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, Law No: 01-02-1-742/16, of 03.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16, of 04.03.2016. (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-609/16, of 18.03.2016. (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Ombudsman – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-610/16, of 18.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 12. Proposal for a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to amend the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-19-1004/16, of 31.03.2016; 13. Report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement – Proposer: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-37-433/16, of 05.02.2016; 14. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2015, issue: 05/7-50-13- 568/16, of 16/02/2016; 15. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-629/16, of 22.02.2016, and Working Plan of the Independent Committee for 2016, issue: 05/50-19-630/16, of 22.02.2016; 16. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, issue: 05/8-50-14-485-6/16, dated 03.03.2016; 17. Work report and the Financial Report of the Postage Transport Agency for BiH for 2015, issue: 01,02-16-1-771/16, dated 05.03.2016; 18. Senad Šepić's representative initiative, number: 01-50-1-1574/15, dated 10.12.2015; 19. Denis Bećirović's representative initiative, number: 01-50-1-555/16, since 16.02.2016; 20. Representative's initiative Denis Bećirović, number: 01-50-1-556/16, since 16.02.2016; 21. Report by the Committee of the House of Representatives on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Dušanka Majkić, on the discussion of the letter from the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-26/16, link: 01-16-1-227/16, dated 22.03.2016; 27 22. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-24/15, of 10.12.2015.; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol on cross-border supervision between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-05-2-577/16, dated 17.02.2016; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China on grant of grants, number: 01,02-05-2-960/16, since 25/03/2016. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 26th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12079	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I am extremely pleased with the answer provided by the BiH Ministry of Justice, the answer shows that certain suggestions are respected and that the ministry will take this into account when making certain legal solutions and I am extremely pleased with both the speed and the real quality and content of the response. What I am not pleased with is the fact that, I commented on it at the last session and the Honorable Chairman was not there at the time, Mr. Bosić as the first deputy led the session and remembers our conversation well, so my question addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not only that ministry but that, the answer was found at the Council of Ministers' meeting. So, the Council of Ministers officially delivered me, I say again, I can't call it an answer, because what they delivered states is that they don't want to answer because they think it wouldn't give complete information about something that wasn't at all the point of my question. And this, at that time, I asked for a five-minute break so that the College would take this opportunity to inform the Council of Ministers that this kind of agreement, the answer, or refusal to respond, cannot tolerate that it is something concerning the overall relationship of the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly and that we will derogate, therefore, our authority if we allow it. Mr. Bosić committed himself, it's all in the official stenogram, he said – you're right, it's unacceptable, we'll take action. However, everything the College has done has passed on to me, what I addressed to the College and pointed to the inadmissibility of this relationship, it was only the College that forwarded it to the Council of Ministers. And I am therefore, now on behalf of the SBB Club, asking for a 15-minute break and now I really ask you to point out to the Council of Ministers that this is an inadmissible practice and that they finally deliver that answer to me, because I haven't received it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12080	Thank you. I'll just first tell the esteemed representative Arnaut that we had that question at the College yesterday and that we met the Council of Ministers about your objection, so, here's whether you're staying here to seek a break or to satisfy yourself with this answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12081	If that's the case, of course, I, as you know I wasn't familiar with it and that's why I asked for a break, but now that you've informed me that... I'm giving up my break. But really this is something that until I get an answer I'm going to insist on every session, and that's why I'm really asking, and I should have come by that answer already.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12082	We've met them and what the Council of Ministers will do, of course the College can't influence, you know that well. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12083	Of course, but then I'll stay on this and ask for a break so that they can meet,... another way to explain to them that I can't provide the MP with the information he writes – we won't give you an answer. That's really inadmissible.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12084	So we're not taking a five-minute break?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12085	I gave up my break.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12086	Thank you. Šemsudin Mehmedović, commentary. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12087	Thank you. I have asked the Minister of Security in time and I have received an answer that I am pleased with, but I am not satisfied with the state contained in the response. Why? Because it is evident that the Ministry of Security's non-disciplined treatment is in different cases. If the former secretary of the ministry is suspended because of the indictment, it is quite all right and that is, the Regulation has been established and legally. However, if it is an assistant minister, he is not suspended even though it is still an active trial against the one that avoids, means justice in a way that does not respond to the subpoenas of the neighbouring state of Croatia, which means it was delivered right through the Ministry, and in response it says they do not actually know that the procedure is being conducted, which is not true. Therefore, I believe that this is an unprincipled relationship with everyone in the ministry, and I expect that the Minister of Security does not inherit the practice of unpreciseness that his predecessors had that he has a completely different and unequal approach to all employees, especially when it comes to low-level employees, if I may say so, regardless of whether it is the Secretary of the Ministry, the Assistant Minister, and at the very end and the Minister, we are all, or at least we should be equal in front of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12088	Senad Šepić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12089	In one of the previous sessions, I asked the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments to provide me with an overview of all the appointments they made in this mandate. So I received a very good answer from both the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers. From the federal government, I've referred the question to our prime minister federal and I've received an answer from his office director telling me to list an official newspaper. So I am renewing the same question again, so I think that in this sense the government, or serious institutions, has a commitment and has a way of answering these questions. I'm not doing this to list a newspaper, I'm doing this so that simply all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a clearer picture and a clearer view of what we're doing together. Because when they do and they put their signature on everything that has been done in this period, then you'll actually see the essence of what I've been talking about for a long time, which is that most of the public rights, i.e. public positions, public institutions, are still not deployed and not named by professional, professional, territorial and any other, this, to any other criteria, but it's often... the right of narrow groups of people who do so in the way that I don't think they should have. That is why I ask, once again, that, in line with the question asked by the Federation government, as I have received a correct response from the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so that I can be answered in such a way from this entity level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12090	Thank you. I apologize, before I give my word, I see Diana Zelenika, I've tried to check here, I don't see the questions asked, I don't see the answers. Since under this point we have the right to comment only on those who asked the question(?) So got it or something, I don't see it, so I'm just asking the service that it's not some mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12091	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12092	I don't know, what are you commenting on?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12093	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12094	And the oral question, is it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12095	Thank you. I welcome all present. So, as I said at last session of the House of Representatives, held on 17 March this year, I was the second deputy, and on behalf of the Committee for Gender Equality, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, asked the Council of Ministers for an opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. I explained the demands why. Mr. Zvizdić has promised, and from the stenogram it is literally like this, I quote – "most likely in the next and the latest in the week behind". Given that the promised deadline passed at the end of last month, and the requested opinion has not yet been delivered, I think it would be very desirable, if even necessary, for the House of Representatives to set the deadline for the Council of Ministers to continue the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12096	I'm sorry, but here, when we checked, we haven't established here through the service that there was a question at all. These are now at this point comments, so don't take that at 31 right now is asking questions. Some services are checking whether it was a question, so that again, in a way, it is active according to the Council of Ministers. Nikola Lovrinović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12097	So, I, too, thank the chairman and apologize for not knowing which time, therefore, to comment on the unreceived answer. So, my colleague Šepić is lucky, so he's got some kind of answer, and nothing else comes to mind right now than to address our effective Committee on Human Rights and ask him to finally... not to make any discrimination against me. So, Mr. Šepić gets from..., he won't be angry that I'm talking like this, answers all questions or most questions, and I haven't got at least twenty questions, here now and the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Human Rights joins the prosecution, so he doesn't answer me. morati'm going to have to speak to the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights, which is me as an agent. I guess that's when I'll get the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12098	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I conclude the debate by commenting on the answers received. Before we move to point 3 I would use the right under Article 27(f) and limit the debate to 5 minutes in the remaining points of the agenda. Now we move to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-26/15, of 28.01.2016. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 25th session of the House, held on 16.02.2016. The Joint Defence and Security Committee delivered on 30.03.2016. The bill's proposal report. Three amendments have been adopted. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-37/15, of 16/02/2016. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12104	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. Let me say a few sentences about the situation we're in when it comes to this law. To me, the right to tell you, completely unexpected on the Constitutional Legal Commission, there has been a situation that the Constitutional Commission, it seems to me, for one question, and for this reason I have come to this speaker, has estimated that this law has no support when it comes to constitutional basis and compliance with the law with the constitutional system. The committee in charge supported the principles of the law. Today we have, therefore, a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which was completely unexpected for me. I expected a different set of events, after a debate that was... and that issue could have been discussed at the Commission's session, but I think the vote should have been quite different. It is an important law, a law that respects many recommendations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has on its European path to comply and I ask that we treat this law with due attention and today this negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission does not accept and return the law to re-procedure. And then later in the amendment phase after the first reading, we'll see what's wrong, which is not what anyone wants, to see if we can fix it or if we can't fix it. So it's about the next thing. Therefore, the basic objection and the basic reason why I think there is a lack of constitutional law is the claim that aneks vi of the Dayton Peace Agreement has been signed that the headquarters of the Ombudsman Institution in Sarajevo, and the Law proposes that the Ombudsman's headquarters be in Banja Luka as it is now. You know that once before, the Parliamentary Assembly passed a law establishing the seat of the Ombudsman Institution to be in Banja Luka. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like the seat to be in Sarajevo, but I'm also a man who respects the laws of this country and what's written. And if that is so 34 then it should be so and I think it is not a violation of the Constitution which is prescribed that the headquarters of the Ombudsman institution, or..., or the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is prescribed that the seat of the Ombudsman institution be in Banja Luka as it has been so far. It is true that Annex VI of the Dayton Peace Agreement stipulates that the seat of the Ombudsman Institution should be in Sarajevo, but I would remind you that aneks vi speaks of the Commission for Human Rights which has the House for Human Rights and the Ombudsman and the seat and the House for Human Rights and the Ombudsman, as well as parts of the Commission as well as the premises, is prescribed, so Annex VI that it is in Sarajevo. The House of Human Rights has ceased to exist, his powers have been taken over by the Constitutional Court, one Ombudsman has ceased to exist, they have ceased to exist entity ombudsmen and we have received one institution of three ombudsmen. By order of the members, I think, 14, 15. Anexa VI of the Dayton Peace Agreement is prescribed, so 14, that 5 years after the Agreement enters into force, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina will assume the powers to continue the functioning of the Commission established in Chapter II of this Article, etc., so the House of Human Rights and the Institution of the Ombudsman, therefore one Ombudsman as prescribed by Annex VI of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Many of the annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement are, or some of the annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement are realised, some are partially realised, Annex I, for example, Annex II, remember the interentity line, remember the arbitration for Brcko, so that is the annex that is realized. Niko one mentions Annex III talking about the elections anymore, so he is now in the BiH Election Law. Unfortunately, we have numerous and important annexes that are not realized, such as Annex VII, Annex VIII, Annex IX, but these annexes are either fully or partially realised. And I believe that Annex VI has been partially implemented, and therefore I think it is too strict to rule that there is no constitutional basis because once seven, eight or ten years ago, the Parliamentary Assembly passed a law on the establishment of the Ombudsman to be in Banja Luka. That's why I'm calling you, so just looking back at the agenda point, the point is a negative report from the Constitutional Commission, not to support this report and give this law another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12105	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12106	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, we got a little bit in a position as it seems to me at last session of the House when we got caught up in our own ignorance and unhappiness. The Constitutional Commission shall consider and establish the constitutional basis, i.e. compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the competent commission shall have its task to establish the principles of the law. We know it means that a member of 108 is talking about the jurisdiction of constitutional committees, Member of 109th on the competent commission. How can the committee in charge work before the Constitutional Commission has finished its work? We had that case again yesterday at a session of the Joint Defence and Security Commission when the secretary swore to us that the Constitutional Commission had finished its work and no one had seen the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. It's that we're all seriously wondering how this Dom works. It's been too long since the election to have to learn some things by now. And this is the very bad situation we're in. How the competent commission can unanimously decide what the Constitutional Commission, therefore not 35, there is no sychronisation in the work of committees. I think the College should be here, so it's not the first time or the last time, it's, it's too often. Now, how did that happen? Even though we all know that there is a Law on the Ombudsman, we know, most of us know how difficult it is and in what circumstances it has been adopted, but the Proposer has indeed, uh, made a great deal of effort to introduce in the first part of this Law several controversial things that make it impossible for us to make a quality statement, or at least to make a statement in a way that it causes no doubt and dilemmas. I know, as Mr. Džaferović says, that I would like the ombudsman's headquarters in Sarajevo, but it is not, as I would like the large number of institutions in Sarajevo to be in Banja Luka, but it is not, so we will have to survive that in Banja Luka is the headquarters of the Ombudsman. But it is amazing that, as the promoter considers it possible, therefore the institutions are now, so by law we now have a seat in Banja Luka with offices in Mostar, Brcko District and Sarajevo, but it is inadmissible to register that the Ombudsman depends on where he will continue to establish, in other places. The seat, the seat is determined by law and can never be allowed by the director of an institution to decide where else the office will be established. So, it's inadmissible and it's affecting, it's immediately creating suspicion. Don't touch what's hard to make a deal and don't do it anymore. In other things, when it comes to jurisdiction, we remember that there was almost a question of this national mechanism and that the Ombudsman had made a proposal to amend the law and that we had not adopted it. And now we only have the same thing through the law. Don't do what, there are people who remember something from what they're doing here, thinking that by the method of forgetting that something is going to fit in here and shouldn't. Furthermore, there is still something about protecting human rights where a system of complaints is introduced, and we know that it is an unacceptable term to put above social opportunities and ways of deciding to put in this case a word, term – complaint. Further, the central institution, which represents itself and what it means in the system of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the central institution system. There's a lot of things that, in addition to what's key to the seat itself, there's a lot of things here that are certainly going to open up, so I don't think it's wise, the promoter isn't wise, he's tried to get the maximum, instead of trying to get what's real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12107	Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12108	I have no intention of talking about the law itself, and besides, we're not talking about the law right now, we're just talking about the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, so this content that my colleague was talking about I'm going to talk about... When the law is the subject of debate here in Parliament. [[doesn't understand it's turning from the microphone]] But when it comes to the Constitutional Commission's opinion, I call on the House of Representatives to refuse, therefore, this negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission because I simply believe there is a constitutional basis, and ultimately we have a Law that is in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, I believe that the Constitutional Commission will provide us with a positive opinion. But I just want to say one word about the obligation that the competent commissions have the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. I found no provision in the Rules of Procedure that states that we are obliged to have the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission before we consider the issue. In fact, Article 108 states – after considering the harmonisation of the draft law with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Constitutional Commission delivers an opinion to the chairman of the House within 10 days of receiving the bill, which does not mean that it delivers it to the commissions. So, the chairman of the House. So I did not find this fact anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, if someone found it and I hadn't noticed it, so the possibility that my colleagues would indicate that I had not read something well in the Rules of Procedure, but I do not see any provision that obliges other committees to await the position of the Constitutional Commission. It's a need to deliver it to the House, not to our commissions. I think the commission should do its job, so the Constitutional Commission, and all other committees, without the obligation to wait for the Constitutional Commission act so that we can discuss this issue. That is why I would call on Parliament to reject the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, to continue the procedure, because there is a constitutional basis for this law, and we will talk about the headquarters and everything else when the law is discussed here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12109	Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12110	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm really uncomfortable here in this place, I don't know how to stand next to this microphone anymore. So, I would like to remind my colleague Bojić that, just before I spoke about the work of the Constitutional Commission, I could also talk about the work of other committees, but two days ago when I offered the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law... to secondary education, there is also a law, and the Constitutional Commission said there is no constitutional basis, and there is also a law. So, we don't have simple built standards on which we work, so how we determine this constitutional tenacity of something we propose, and I just spoke about what we decide on that Constitutional Commission. Well, I think at this point, the Committee has made its statement, and I will, I was personally against it. And I agree with some of what Mrs. Majkić said, there's a lot to talk about. However, when the Law comes, the Ministry may try to make sure that even before it is released again, if the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission is adopted today, that we discuss what is controversial in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12111	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12112	I thank the chairman. So, when it comes to the headquarters of any institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the SBB's policy is extremely clear. We believe that any institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina can have its seat on any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory unless there are institutional, or constitutional or legal obstacles. Therefore, unless it is an institution which is either a Constitution or some, namely aneks IV or some other annex of the Dayton Peace Agreement explicitly defined to have its seat in a given city or part of possibly Bosnia and Herzegovina. 37 When it comes to the institution of Ombudsman Annex VI, he made it very clear that he is headquartered in Sarajevo, and it is true that Article 14 states that some things can be changed after, but this really does not apply, objectively looking at Article 14 does not apply to the seat, Article 14 says that a domestic Ombudsman can be chosen, etc., but the seat is excluded from that provision. And if the intention was that the headquarters as well as the foreign Ombudsman after 5 years could change it would probably, or certainly in Dayton take care of all these things, be explicitly stated. The second question is the same, Mr Bojić said at a session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and you are right, the Rules of Procedure do not say that one commission should be decided before the other, but I think we can agree that it makes sense that the Constitutional Commission, uh, decides before the competent commission, but there are no business provisions that prohibit it. However, Mr Bojić said something that is also tempting from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest, which is that the sides can agree otherwise. Annex VI clearly states that the sides of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation and Republika Srpska and your offer to agree on this at the state level, in the State Parliament is really extremely tempting from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest, so I am a little divided, I should say, I also told you on the Commission. However, what may be, here and the key question, so we have information, Mr. Bojić, you told me that this is all part of a broader agreement, that the Ombudsman's institution in Banja Luka was replaced by something else. And that other institution, which you mentioned, was a private conversation after the Commission's session, and I'm not going to give details, especially because I'm not sure if it really is because we didn't participate, but this institution that's supposed to be replaced by the Ombudsman Institution is much more tempting to be in Sarajevo, I think it's a larger institution with a much bigger budget, much bigger powers, etc. It's much more tempting to be awake in Sarajevo and it may be worth agreeing to, but I don't know if that's really the case, because we're not even close to deciding about it at all and we need, uh, to agree that the Ombudsman is going to Banja Luka and past aneks vi. But in any case, I think it should always go back to base, and the basis is Annex VI, and Annex VI says that the institution's headquarters is in Sarajevo, and maybe it's best not to go into any trade with this, on these issues. Do not enter into tempting offers that the parties, although they are entities, are agreeing in state institutions because this can all be caused by consequences later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12113	Thank you very much. Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12114	I apologize to you and the Kolegijum for speaking at the moment, given the questions that my colleague Arnaut has asked. I didn't expect a debate like this to be held here. So, I expected us to have a debate just and exclusively on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, because that's how it's prescribed. And since my colleague mentioned a few facts, there's a need for me to say something about it, since he mentioned me. I would like to remind an esteemed colleague that in 2000, by decision of the High Representative, therefore, among other things, the OHR Law was declared, among other things, by the Ombudsman institution, transferred to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. After that, we had a situation where for many years various discussions were held, and then there was an agreement that the parties agreed on the seat. So, with the consent of the OHR, with the consent of the OSC and with the consent of the European 38 Commission, I also have the signatures, an agreement has been reached regarding the establishment of the Ombudsman Institution. If that's what you're interested in, I'll give it to you, and otherwise this is urgently addressed by the senior deputy High Representative, Mr. Peter Baker, and this question was referred to in the House of Representatives by Mr. Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž, Šefik Džaferović, and in the House of Peoples Pamuk, Milojević and Jukić. After that, there was the adoption of this Law... completely clearly defined as the headquarters of the Ombudsman institution in Banja Luka. So, all in all when an agreement is reached, and in other words when it comes to the Dayton Agreement and Annex VI, the supreme interpreter, as some like to say, is OHR. The OHR has given an interpretation that the ombudsman Institution's headquarters is in Banja Luka. You know, and let me remind you a little bit when it comes to the retrospectives of these events, that we had an Ombudsman institution in Republika Srpska and that there was no mood for this institution to move to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it showed significant results at the time. However, after all of this condition for the adoption of this Act was based in Banja Luka and a political agreement was reached on this subject signed by the parties, and then with the approval and consent of OHR, the OSC and the European Commission. That kind of documentation is with me here, if you're interested, I can give it to you. Therefore, Annex VI was not injured but was in line with the decisions taken in connection with the agreement and with the agreement of the OHR, a decision was taken to be based in Blanja Luka. And so I am absolutely convinced that it is not possible to change the issue of headquarters, but that, in my opinion, Mr. Arnaut, will still be in Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12115	Thank you. And of course we have accepted the debate on the opinion, because in some ways it was concerned in terms of this argument relating to the constitutional basis, and I would like to ask everyone at the coming points to adhere to the points of the agenda, we will hold a debate on certain, certain points of opinion on the negative Constitutional Commission. Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12116	Thank you. So I disagree that only the issue of ombudsman headquarters was something that caused attention when it came to the constitutionality and constitutional foundation of this Law. Namely, there are also articles 10, which are also controversial or if you do not think that Article 12, this proposed text of the Law, says – the Ombudsman will be resolved for the following reasons, so under point (b) prevents him from performing his duty for health reasons. What they mean is... I mean, I'm banalizing now, of course I'm banalizing, I'm suffering from flu and it's being resolved. But who's going to figure it out is nothing further, so the constitutional category is, therefore, that man can't, how do you think he's sick and he can be resolved, I don't know what was meant by this. So, there are still parts of the Law that also do not smell the constitutionality of these provisions, so I suggest that the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission be accepted, and that the ministry try to find an effort to resolve some of the dilemmas that exist until the new text is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12117	I also thank my colleagues Lovrinović. 39 I have not noticed that someone said that these were only the reasons, were among other things, and that which you have stated, and everyone has the right, as you do, to state the reasons why you did not support the constitutional foundation for the adoption of this Law. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, Law No: 01-02-1-742/16, of 03.03.2016, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission The draft law was submitted in procedure 03.03.2016. On 10.03.2016, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the compatibility of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions which have been found to be in full compliance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 04.04.2016. The commission established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, but did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12119	I thank the chairman. Namely, I was present at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission and I must say that I was surprised by the vote of some of my colleagues and colleagues who felt that the principles of this bill were not respected. The principles on which this amendment and supplementation of the Law on Sports is based are based on the protection of human rights, human rights, freedom, protection of persons with disabilities, respect for the principle of gender equality, and respect for the principle of non-discrimination, and all these laws are in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The proposal to amend and supplement this Act, based on the Law on Gender Equality, and in particular on the Law and Conventions signed by us as Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that the whole text changes the term that is present, which is ‘invalidal persons’ or ‘invalid persons’, to replace it with the term ‘disabilities persons’. Also, the Single Rules, Article 44a), stipulates that each law should contain that, to use grammatical terms relating to male sex and to female sex. This Law, which is currently in force, does not have that article, or normatively prescribed rule, which should contain it. Also a ban, the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, which is in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, regardless of your skin, skin color, race, sex, sexual orientation, birth identity, disability, should not be an obstacle to being a member of a sports council. I believe that this law is well founded and that it contains everything prescribed by the UN Conventions and I believe that colleagues and colleagues today should support this Amendment and Completion Act which will include equal participation of all, regardless of their gender, their disability, any, any lack and I believe that the principles that are 40 are represented and which are prescribed should be supported by colleagues and colleagues on the Constitutional Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12120	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12121	I must admit, here's another unpleasant surprise from the Constitutional Commission. So, the truth I can't believe that this is happening to us, that like this one quite... law that can do something, the question is how much... can something do to repair the position of women in sports, we get that no principles of the law have been adopted. It would be really interesting, uh, to listen to it on the side when it was happening on the Commission, which arguments had to go too far to be passed, not to adopt the principles of this Law. What kind of message, my people, are we sending from this house? What are we going to be able to defend? Is there even a good argument that we can defend this negative opinion on the principles of this House? So, I think what we should do, here are the arguments that the Proposer has cited, further explain things, and I think we need to get back into thinking and ask that we get back to the point and adopt this, this is amazing that lately everything that is about gender equality and the correction of women in society is going to be so eloquent and so turned around and going to the opposite side that man can't believe where we are and it seems to me, which is the worst thing, that women lead to the main word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12122	Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12123	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all present in the hall. Well, it's really illusory to discuss one of these topics, of course I fully agree with these remarks, but these remarks apply to all other laws that could be regulated in the same way. But the bottom line is the Law of Sports, the question of the state's relationship to sport, this is a shame what the state's attitude to sport is and what, we can do whatever we want, but the essential attitude towards sport and the state of sport with this Law won't change for yota either. All that is in the Law and all that will be corrected eventually in the Law if this proposal is adopted, it will again remain a dead letter on paper. I appeal to everyone to finally make this Parliament, including the state, on the issue of sports. See how the funds that are small in the sports budget are spent anyway, it's not, it's absolutely unacceptable that the state level is related and financed by those activities that are activities of local character. I, therefore, appeal to all of us to fundamentally change this Law, and not only to make these cosmetic changes that will satisfy certain principles, standards, let me say, the jender standards and the jender principles, although against that one cannot be a man, it must be supported and it should be supported. But I urge that we take the opportunity to fix the situation with the law when it comes to sports. Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12124	I'll just comment, I can't see anymore, I've got a correction to the wrong assumption, but the injury was the Rules of Procedure not keeping the agenda through the debate. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12125	So, ma'am, co-worker Majkić, I believe that no one in the Constitutional Commission has had any objections to the story of gender equality. So, by the constructions that had been giggling about it, they were completely different. So, it's not just about that change, let that change happen again, it won't be any problem here as far as I'm concerned. However, the text states, therefore, that Article 2 mentions the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, mentions the law, this, constitutional basis, and then lists some categories and always falls into the trap to spread it, and whether or not it is passed as it stands in the Constitution, therefore because of this opinion, and not because of equality, therefore, sex. It's not a problem at all, let's just make that change, let's make it right now, as far as I'm concerned, personally, I'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12126	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16, of 04.03.2016. (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 28.01.2016. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on compliance with the draft law on 02.02.2016. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions which found that it was not fully in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the chairman to correct the deficiencies observed in the Bill proposal. The Proposer, the Council of Ministers of BiH, delivered, on 04.03.2016, the required amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on 31 March 2016. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system 04.04.2016. I'm opening a debate. Safer Demirović, debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12128	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome everyone present in this room. 42 As far as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is concerned, it certainly has every support from me, and here individuals and groups are being introduced, meaning, our citizens to whom there was the possibility of any form of discrimination and, of course, that all of us, at least I think most of us and all normal people are against any form of discrimination and different attitude and view someone who is different on any basis. But what I came forward for is what is the message of this Law and what are the people who entered it, so to speak, in this Law, what can they expect from this Law. Since I have to commit to this matter, since Article 2 says that discrimination among other things, it says, every kind of discrimination against race, skin color, language, religion and ethnicity is prohibited, and now disability, age, etc. is being introduced. etc. And I have to remind myself of a recent decision by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council where a large part or a number of our citizens have been denied and directly placed under discrimination because of the misreading of this part, whether it's a religious feature or a religious obligation. Of course, I don't want to talk about the decision of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but I will take the opportunity to set a course for all of us – What can citizens who have been brought into law with this law, what can they expect when we already have expressed forms of discrimination at various, different levels? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12129	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12130	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I supported the constitutional basis and the principles of this Law because on several occasions in different laws, I discussed that the very issues of discrimination of the very concept should be solved in this Law and then we will all be able to solve it in all other laws when we do it thoroughly here. I supported it even though I am not satisfied, therefore, with what is the article 2 of this, not really Article 2, but as the concept is complemented, it means in Article 1, in fact, the existing Article 2 because certain groups have been reintroduced, therefore, beyond what is written in the Constitution and what is written in the definition of constitutional o, in fact it says there in the Constitution – non-discrimination, the law is called the ban on discrimination. Why am I saying this? So, I'm going to support this further, I think we should support it in principle, this is where it's put, that, a broad term of all forms of possible discrimination and all groups, but I'm also going to say that I can now list a dozen of the least that are not covered by this provision, which complements the former article 2, so let's say, race, and family. And constantly this Committee of Human Rights speaks often about births quite often, not listed as a group that has many problems both in receiving and in receiving health care and in everything. So let's say they're not listed, for example. single parents, not homeless, can therefore list dozens of you which can be found and are most often found in the form of discrimination without being mentioned here. So I've always suggested that we find a concept that will cover everything and he's quite well in the Constitution solved, I agree that he may be even better explained in the law, but here I often see in these few laws when they talk about this as if one hand overwrites and only does two, three groups to be introduced, so for God's sakes they're compromised, and here you have a person who's, like, age and has been introduced, but you have a person of age who's in office for 43 employment so I can't get a job, and nobody's going to take them. Or you have a person who cannot exercise the right to retire, you have a group, you have religious groups of different kinds, like Jehovah’s Witnesses, you have various other groups, you have discrimination by regionality, the possibility of discrimination. You have various options that simply didn't cover everything right again. I therefore have the impression that only some, as we say in the people, plant sparrows under a dove, and will never really solve the whole issue of discrimination and who in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be discriminated against whether the group is in a form in which it can be discriminated against. However, here I am not, simply to say so, not exhausting myself around it, I will support myself, I supported the Constitutional Law, but I think this still needs to be done, and that you will see that it will appear again in situations where there are others who are discriminated against, and this is not regulated by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12131	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-609/16, of 18.03.2016. (first reading) The draft law was submitted in procedure 19.02.2016. On 25.02.2016, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on compliance with the draft law as set out in Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, which found that it did not fully comply with Article 105. A representative's house. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the applicant to correct the deficiencies observed in the proposal for a law. In 1803, the Proposer, the Council of Ministers submitted the required amendments to the draft law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 04.04.2016. The commission established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system, and adopted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12133	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have supported the principles of this Law at the present stage of the procedure, and I will support it today, and I think that the House should also support the principles of this Law, but I would like to say that if there is no intervention in the next phase to certain provisions, and I will not be able to ultimately support the text in such content as is currently in the Law. In fact, the essence of this Law is to avoid additional costs when the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been sued, and it is the essence of the law that anyone who wants to be actively legalised before the Court of Justice 44 against the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina must respect one previous procedure concerning trying to conclude an agreement with the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and a non-judicial settlement. I think it's right that such a solution offered in the law is discriminatory. It is not discriminatory if the full precise and clear procedure of the future prosecutor is prescribed, i.e. by which the future prosecutor has an obligation to comply with the previous actions and if this is all clearly and precisely stated in the Law. So, if you want to keep this institute in the Law on Prosecution, and it is also related to this Law on the Defence and to its own, then that is, the essence is therefore the same in both laws, although this Law has been given a negative opinion, then it will have to be fully and precisely prescribed what it is that the prosecutor is to obtain the right to an active legitimacy before the Court of BiH must do what the institutions are obliged and what time to do so. And a clear legal provision that, if it does not end within 30 days, that the prosecutor, or 15 days, has the right to go with the BiH Court of Justice suit. You have instructed 30 days, but there is no clear provision anywhere to say, has happened or has not happened within 30 days or 15, I think 15 days is enough, the procedure continues, and the prosecutor has the right to press charges against the BiH Court of Justice. I think this would be some kind of compromise between the solution we have made and the objection we have in our system know legally, we know the situations in which certain conditions are sought so that someone has the right to sue someone, or to acquire the so-called. active identification. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12134	Thank you. Đorđo Krčmar, the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12135	The Honorable Chairman. So, theoretically, these members might theoretically make sense, but in practice there's both the Republika Srpska and the Federation, I think that, in the Federation, they've shown a total failure, they're classified in Criminal Law. And I don't know, I've had one 50 requests none solved, not once invited to conclude, uh, an agreement and not go to court. The proposer here, in his explanation, cites efficiency, economics, equal access to the Court. The efficiency has nothing, and even more questions are raised when you deliver thousands of cases, you deliver them to the D.A., and the D.A. has a lot of important affairs to deal with, and then the question is, how, what will the lawyers do about those jobs that are very important from their jurisdiction? As for economics here, the principle of contradiction should be respected, so the state cannot look only at its own interest, before the law should all be equal and have equal rights. You here in some way restrict access to the Court of Justice, says the person here, so as far as I see the bill, you're restricting someone means time that he can't go through a lawsuit, and he's legally entitled to it. And the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms and... The convention is said to be guaranteed access to court by every citizen. The question of the attorney's expertise is raised. You can in court when you press charges at the first hearing to conclude court settlement. The lawyer comes, the party comes to the first hearing to conclude court settlement and when you conclude it there are also minor court fees, so they are exactly, and the court respects it, shortens, so there is no court case. 45 Furthermore, the provision, Article 20a(3), should also be respected here – The requirement for a peaceful settlement of the dispute must contain everything that must contain the action. So, in order for a person to apply to the D.A.'s office, it has to be a professional request, everything he has to do and a lawsuit to do, they can only do it by professional persons. In order for a professional person to do that, the face has to pay for that one. What if he doesn't reach an agreement? He has to press charges to re-pay. Given that the law obliges the application here, the person has the right in the court to impose this expense and also to ask for this expense to be compensated with the suit, the costs of the lawsuit and the litigation procedure. Furthermore, the Court of Justice says — If a request for a peaceful solution to the dispute is rejected or not decided within 3 months until its submission, the applicant may file an action against the Court with evidence that the application has been rejected, etc., etc. Here the bill can be proposed, i.e. in addition to the Law, says that – The Attorney General may also partially resolve the request. And then you go to court again. So you have a waste of time, you have expenses and you come back to court and you have double expenses again. Practice in Republika Srpska and the Federation has shown that in practice this has not survived, that it is only a waste of time and that it is only an increase in costs. In an explanation, what should be submitted, attention should be paid, the reason for the adoption of the Law, on the side, I believe that three, four, says – The findings of the audit indicate that in the period 2008 to 2013, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the defendant, lost 313 litigation cases, and that lost litigation cases have a trend of increase. That's exactly what, distinguished fellow MPs, which we're talking about here, we need to see what quality courts, judges, prosecutors, and even attorneys, I agree, who are detaining and closing, the court, they've been in custody after a month, they've come out, they've stopped the investigation, and then we get to this, and eventually they're paying the taxpayers. So we need to review here the quality of the work of the courts, etc., etc. I believe theoretically that, but in practice here are both the Federation and Republika Srpska have shown that this has all been lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12136	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Borjana Krišto, chairman of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12137	Thank you. Dear and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I also applied for a debate on the draft law supplementing the BiH Court of Justice Procedure Act, and I could actually give up, so I will also say very briefly that I join the debates of colleagues that both counterparts Džaferović and counterpart Krčmar have in a way. I was also discussing this Law on the Constitutional Commission and I am having a big dilemma, given that it is one system law, it is, in the end, a law that ultimately interprets decisions, well, ultimately, other laws. And also this Law, of course, is explained to be brought on the basis of certain principles, here is what colleagues have mentioned, I don't know, and efficiency and functionality and efficiency. I am also asked by Article 20a) which says -- that the person who intends to sue the Court of BiH against Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to address the case with 46 requests for a peaceful settlement of the BiH Ombudsman's disputes. On the one hand, we have in the end, we can truly interpret that defenders and there are that in some way if there is a fundamental one, I would say and the main function is to protect the property interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in this respect, when it comes to procedures, they should make sure that, if possible, procedures are resolved in a calm manner in order to reduce the costs of the procedure. However, when we have such a provision of an article that points us to the sea, it is not, I say, discretionary to leave the possibility of addressing means to settle disputes peacefully, but directly obliges you to address the pravobraniteljstvo General. Then a question arises on the one hand of the violation of the right to address the Court directly, and on the other hand we can talk again about, here from the experience we have, about the infunctionality, the ineffectiveness of our institutions, and whether it or not the Attorney General, the simple difficulty with certain procedures, so often the costs of these court proceedings are greater than the amount, I would say, chief. So in this sense, I have commented and I say I join the debates, we have the Law before us today, I really think that the Proposer, Council of Ministers, of course and technical processor of the Ministry of Justice should and should take care of this law to correct these things so that we really have one law that is enforceable, which is sure, that will operate on the principles of justice, justice, which will allow ultimately decision-making at as little costs as possible and which will in time resolve these disputes, and not which will leave, I would say, the possibility of extending, or for the accumulation of these disputes ultimately, will not protect, I would say, property and property interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much, I hope I'm... positive by the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12138	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12139	I thank the chairman. Well, with all that they've said, and the more I see everything in the discussions, the previous colleagues, as my esteemed colleague Krčmar said, are one theory, another practice, and there's a dilemma about this law. I just want, since it's more and more said to remind me of one thing, that we already have an obligation in the BiH Criminal Law that a person who is illegally deprived of liberty for compensation must address the justice ministry first. And so you get lost months, they do it, the Justice Department, I don't think this really has anything to do with the Honorable Minister, you're... there, it's filled in form and it's always regular, the same answer – go to court. So, they're lost, people who have already been harassed, unconventionally deprived of freedom, have to re-engage, as counterpart Krčmar used to say, lawyers are lost for three months, all of which is paid by a tight interest and what we get, nothing. And it is very easy to respond to this request because the BiH Court has already made very many decisions and rulings on the founding and height of the damage claim. So a certain practice was established according to which the Ministry of Justice could be determined. And I think, and I'm afraid that the same thing would happen to the BiH Law Department, in order to just repeat the situation, I think I appreciate the intention indeed, but then we need to prescribe some obligation to the BiH Law Department not to be a form, where three months are lost and why not prescribe in this law the obligation of BiH's Attorney General to submit a six-month report to the Council of Ministers. Here, it does not have to Parliament, let it submit to the Council of Ministers for each, where each of the cases would explain why they could not approach the peaceful settlement of the dispute and that we know. I have to say, indeed 47 real fences now, and I don't want to doubt the honor and congratulation of our attorneys, but when you have the freedom to accept something and send it to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance only estimates the financial effects, I'm afraid of what's very common in this country too, so that there won't be those settlements in four eyes, well come on, I'll give it to the compensation of 9,000, and maybe that compensation is actually 6-7 grand, so that anything can happen to us. Perhaps, within the framework of now, you should set up within the Council of Ministers when the Ombudsman sends a proposal, a committee of experts, by a representative of the Ministry of Justice who will really appreciate whether the proposal has been established and good. That's how much, I don't know maybe it would be the best of all these discussions, I really appreciate that the intention is good, to sum up, analyze and maybe withdraw this Law and make it even with respect to all the suggestions you've heard here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12140	Thank you. A colleague named Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12141	Thank you very much for your esteemed chairman. I'll try for a while. I will počeću with the sentence used by my colleague Krčmar, which is that every subject under the European Convention is allowed to address any person on any matter by law and within a reasonable period of time. So that right of access to court is given to everyone by this Convention. And we have it in our legal system and, of course, that all parties to the court, however they have a name or name and a last name, should be the same, equal in court proceedings. With this Act, the State is exempt and puts itself in a more favourable position than any other entity that would possibly decide to go to court, seek justice, check legality when it comes to the institutions of the State. Therefore, this equality of parties before the court does not exist if such a law is adopted, because the state, its institutions, is given a more favourable position. If we wanted to have a system solution like this in all these disputes, we would say – all parties on the same issues before deciding whether to sue each other have to go to arbitration. And not only when you want to sue the state, but then you first have to go to the state to pray, etc., etc. I find this period of 3 months controversial, that's 90 days and the way it's been formulated in amendments to the law, tells me and gives me the chance that again some individuals in the institutions of the state may not respond to the party's request for arbitration. For there he says, "Unless it is resolved or there is no answer." So they're allowing the administration to shut up again, and that's a new pile of expenses in some future dispute. The reasons for the adoption, as stated here in the explanation, is the loss of 313 litigation cases, without saying who is responsible for why these items are being lost. They do not have to be defenders, those who conclude contracts or do or do not do within their jurisdiction, they are responsible for the loss of disputes. You know, when you do something before, when you make a bad deal, when there's certain damage to any person, it's not a lawyer with a magic wand that can win any dispute. He enters the dispute based on facts and evidence and judgment, of course, on that basis. We don't see here that anyone has ever done an analysis and said someone is responsible that the state pays so much and so much to certain entities, and there's nothing to say about it, but we've thought about changing the law and adapting it to ourselves. The same figures were later, the one that, if they hadn't done an adequate analysis, I don't see who, the 48 bothered them, cited these figures in an idiosyncrasy way by doubting and wanting to say so maybe the court wasn't good, the one who ruled that might not be good. Well, the state prescribes these interest rates and all of this and, of course, they also refer to natural persons, but of course to the state. Every natural person should be careful what he or she does or doesn't do and will do harm to someone, and he should be sued for damages and damages and expenses and interest. And here we act like the state doesn't have to do the same thing. They can cause damage, they can stall it, they can be late with payments, they're late with the realisation of judgments, so it's not those to whom it's done harm, it's those who are responsible for a certain act or not doing it that's done it to another. Here, at this stage, the one, the Law is connected, as counterpart Džaferović said, and with another law, if Bog were to get them through, should have a significant impact on the amendments and fix it in order to bring it down into certain frameworks and legal security and equality of parties in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12142	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Ombudsman, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-610/16, of 18.03.2016, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission The draft law was submitted in procedure 19.02.2016. On 25.02.2016, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions which found that it was not fully in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Unity Rules. For this reason, the College of the House decided to request a correction of the shortcomings observed in the Bill proposal. On 18 March 2016, the Proposer, the Council of Ministers, submitted the required amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 04.04.2016. The commission has established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system, but has not accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12144	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Just for a little while. I think that this law should also be given a chance and today should be voted against by the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion on the principles of the law. This law covers two questions. One that includes this previous law and those two things should be synchronized or harmonised in these two laws. And in particular, we are now in a procedural situation where one law is passed, or supported by the Constitutional Commission and the other is not supported, 49 so that both should follow each other through parliamentary procedure. And second question, I'd like to hear from the promoter here today,...is the question of responsibility for not adopting the report or for a negative report on the work of the institution. I belong to those who believe that the issue of responsibility for the responsible persons in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be raised to a higher level and that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be further addressed to this issue. But I don't understand why only this institution is put in this position through this Law, why it's only about this institution to talk about the possibility of a change in case of non-admission of the report, why it's not a question concerning all institutions, especially given the way we adopted these reports here in Parliament or at the Council of Ministers. Very often this does not depend on the content itself, on the quality itself, depends on the political will and on the relationship between us who are in Parliament in the face of a particular report. Therefore, I ask you to take care of this matter a little bit. I am in favour of raising the responsibility issue to a higher level, I think we need more responsibility for the institutions, but I'm afraid this is not the way and way to go. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12145	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Proposal for a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to amend the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-19-1004/16, of 31.03.2016. The report was submitted in procedure 30.03.2016. I'm opening a debate on the report. Milica Marković, Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure, first. I apologize to my colleague Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12147	Chairman, I don't know how else to answer this, just a preliminary question to resolve. Since, and in order to know and for the sake of discussion, since the amendments and additions, proposed by the Interresor Working Group, are an integral part of the Report whether by adopting the Reports we adopt these amendments, that is to say, firstly, to clarify. And another thing, if the MP has a possible question about the work of the Interresor Working Group who we are talking to, whether the Interresor Working Group has designated the rapporteur after, or yes, the chairman is not there.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12148	Thank you. Here, perhaps a few clarifications are worth giving before this report. I, of course, looked at it as a member of the Interresor Working Group, and I'm saying it now, and I thought I'd pick up and say this exactly what my colleague Magazinović said. In fact, this bill was delivered only to keep MPs informed, and the report, the Report, and it should in some ways technically be 50 to say that it was only as an contribution in terms, not to be in the middle of the Report as it was done. I don't think that's technically well done, so in this sense we're discussing the report today and adopting the report with those proposals of conclusions, and the law will, of course, come into the process when it gets the necessary opinions. So today we're not discussing the Law, we're only discussing the Interresor Working Group report. Here, now we're moving on, so we're having a discussion. Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12149	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues. I will try to say briefly a few of my observations about, above all, the Interresor Working Group Report, which is the very act of delivering the report, thus saying that it has completed its work and that we can probably expect amendments and additions to the Election Law for the next session. It is clear that we are in some final time for the debate, i.e. the adoption of amendments and additions to the Election Law, since it is likely that the Central Election Commission will already need to call local elections in May. It is also known that this, I think, is the nineteenth or twentyth amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law and my personal conviction have long matured the conditions to publish a completely new version of the Electoral Law. But every time we do, here's at least the last three election cycles, if we take '10, '12. And in '14. We have amendments to the electoral law before each election. Starting with the facts and starting of some requirements that I assume have been put before the Interresor Working Group, which are requirements, both from political parties and from some non-governmental sector and from general public opinion in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which direction certain amendments to the Electoral Law should go. So I'm just going to remind my colleagues, we're talking about open and closed lists, we're talking about a mandate, so whether or not the MP has a mandate or a political party at his disposal, a question of censorship that is minimally necessary for a party to cross over and become a parliamentary party. So we see that there's nothing here in the report and that the Commission obviously couldn't reach agreement on that, if she was dealing with it, I believe she did, and we see some changes that, to say more technical nature, although we know that after each election cycle, especially after '12. And in '14. year, when the amendments to the Electoral Law were mentioned then it was impossible to circumvent the fact on every election cycle that it had actually already led to, not to say, perfection, but a very elaborate system of electoral engineering which had devalued a lot of things in the election process and brought, of course, a questionnaire and a question after the election process was completed. What I'm going to focus on in this, the amendment proposal that will, therefore, follow as a version of the amendments to the Electoral Law, is the candidate's schedule on the regular election lists. We see here, according to the Report, that the Interresor Working Group has made a certain, let's say, a step backwards by shutting down, so it eliminated that schedule that was in the previous Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law when it knew the exact schedule of a less represented half that must be represented on each election list up to 40%, but now it is excluded here on regular election lists, which in previous law said that it was one candidate of the less represented half among the first two, among the first five and the first eight candidates. In my opinion, my thinking is that when I think about amending the Election Law, so all changes to every law, including the Election, are done for a reason and in order to improve some things and to fix themselves, so in some better context. In my view, this is a step backwards, and I expect that my colleagues who are members of the Commission on Gender Equality will be included in this discussion, and here I will use my discussion to say that the Commission has been completely against such proposals to amend the Election Law, because this means, therefore, one, to say, a retrograde approach, how gender equality in the electoral cycle, the electoral process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in general the relationship to the less represented gender, when we talk about elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we do not forget that these results of the elections later condition some other things after the constitution of the parliaments and the adoption of the mandate. In my view, this is a bad proposal to conclude the Interresor Working Group and I, as an MP on behalf of the SNSD Club, will suggest that the House of Representatives, therefore, supports the retention of members, position (4) in Article 4 point 19, which refers to the schedule of candidates of the less represented sex on the regular election lists. We see in the conclusion that the Interresor Working Group has maintained this criterion when it comes to compensatory lists but I would like someone to respond from members of the Interresor Working Group – what was the motivation and what was the reason to make such a conclusion and which is, in fact, an improvement in the election cycle if you just say 40% but that less represented half of what is evident in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at all levels are women, if these 40%... are at the end of the list and are only forms for the sake of being able to get some of the priorities they should get and which, ultimately, according to all the conventions and international documents that Bosnia and Herzegovina signed, belong to and above all to certain documents of the Council of Europe that should be respected here, and which are highly concentrated in terms of equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12150	Your time has expired recently.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12151	genders... especially in the election cycle. So it'll be my conclusion, that I don't explain it anymore. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina will take a big step backwards with this approach and this amendment in that article. The second thing I've been thinking about is the city of Mostar – does the Interresor Working Group think that this should be the third.../Embassies off the microphone due to time over time/... the chairman of this story and does not match...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12152	Please don't conduct a dialogue, I chair the House and keep an eye on...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12153	I see you're a great chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12154	Let me tell you, I take care of this and the weather. You've broken a minute and 45 seconds. So we could have tolerated half a minute, etc., but don't you consider whether anything suits me or doesn't work. If it doesn't suit me, I'll make it clear here. Please, at this point, the word is represented by Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12155	52 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12156	And of course I don't lead, I don't lead, I give the word Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12157	I thank the chairman. I'll Trudić to make sure that, given that it's the Interresor Group Report, I'm afraid we've all found ourselves together in an ungrateful position. On the one hand, I fully support what the esteemed colleague Marković said regarding this section concerning these... We are now in a situation where we need to adopt the Law, that it will need an amendment phase to be adopted and that we must do all this until the election is called. I'm skeptical, I don't see how we can do it. I have to say right now, here's because we're not going to go into the details of the election law, that's true, and I'm sharing this opinion, that the proposal that we've received here is retrograde. On the one hand, we've made almost closed lists, because by increasing the censorship inside the list that you have to have 30% to get the rhode inside the list, they're actually almost closed lists. We did support closed lists with the aim of a completely closed list to be more women, but... by proposing to, like, women like icaban somewhere down there, there must be one of the first three and then the others can be ordered down at the bottom of the list. So, I think it's a completely retrograde proposal and I that really, like... this part about the list we can't accept. And I must say that my colleague Tadić, at least as he informed me, also represented these views at the Interresor Working Group session. In the end, he gave support to the proposal, but he said, "Okay, if we're going to introduce these lists, at least it's 50% of the women on it, so we're going to provide some passing women." I don't know, it seems to me that he's here, everyone's been talking about the need to have more women in the legislative and executive bodies and now they're getting their full elimination. And with the current solution we all know here how hard it is to fight women to come to the assembly, because they don't run anymore, let's be honest, they aren't, they're not, I don't know, here's my esteemed colleague Krčmar and my colleague Majkić were from the same constituency and they weren't competition with each other, but my colleague Majkić had problems inside her list was fighting like I had. I didn't have a problem with a colleague of Prodanović, but you're having trouble with those men on your list. So I don't think this is a good solution, it will depend on whether or not our final support from whether or not these amendments will be accepted regarding even returning the old solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12158	Thank you. Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12159	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It is, therefore, about the Report of the Interresor Working Group which, truthfully, also contains solutions to laws that have a completely separate and different procedure. And these laws came yesterday into parliamentary procedure – the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. They're in regular procedure. We today have two draft laws on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law. 53 Therefore now I will not speak of the judgments of the law itself, and I will speak of the report, and of the proposal of the conclusions which are set out in the report. I think we should accept the Interresor Working Group report today. The adoption of the Report does not also mean accepting a solution, because we will plead solutions when we speak, we are having a debate on laws, because the laws proposed are the product of the Interresor Working Group's work, and this is listed here in the Report. To extend the work to this Interresor Working Group because work should continue on the issue of solutions for the City of Mostar and on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc. I think that would be a good decision today at the House of Representatives. A few important questions will be asked before us in the next month, month and a half. It is known that the Election Commission will announce the start of an election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the middle of next month, so it will discuss local elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is known that once it is done, it will be difficult to justify any amendments to the electoral legislation, although I think that the Mostar case, if it were to come to a solution, and after that it would not be too late to, and there would be no major objections to make only that amendment, if an agreement was reached, and I want to reach an agreement and to implement the Constitutional Court's decision as soon as possible. We have two laws in parliamentary procedure today. It is a law proposed by Interresorna, our colleagues who worked, and colleagues, in the Interresor Working Group and the law proposed by the Commission on Gender Equality. The two laws suggest that one issue be settled in a different way, a question discussed by colleagues so far in this debate. And we as the House will have to determine how to act in this situation. The right to tell you both the laws are in regular procedure. At this point, although we have been thinking about what to do, so the Rules of Procedure are talking about the Council of Ministers, about the report by the Council of Ministers on who received the support of the Council of Ministers, about the advantages of the procedure, I fear that we will not come to a conclusion here at the House of Representatives at the same time to consider both the laws and then to make a decision, a fundamental decision, among other things, and on this issue which is listed here today as one of the issues, which is the gender schedule on the candidate lists and the need to achieve a certain percentage of the vote preferences so that we can even enter into the preferred system. I'll talk about these things, of course I have an opinion on all the questions, I'll talk about it when we talk about these laws, and now so much about this Interresor Working Group report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12160	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12161	I thank the chairman. So if we're talking about the report trying not to go into the measure itself, it's very difficult because the amendments to the law are contained in the report, but here, let me try. So, if we talk about the technical aspect of the Commission's work, the number of sessions presented here, about the transparency indicated, which I want to believe that it was the way it was presented in the report, and ultimately the work done within the deadline, we would seem to have reason to be satisfied. However, what we at the SDP Club are not satisfied is, in fact, the essence of the work of this Commission, and these are the proposed solutions. I also don't see it from this report, and it would be good for 54 when it comes to the public and we Parliamentarians to know what activities are being led by the Interresor Working Group when it comes to Mostar City. As you know, the SDP and the DF have jointly come up with solutions that we think are optimal and directed to the Interresor Working Group. In 22.03, it seems to me to have been a press conference, but it's been transmitted in all the media, I think it's one of the last sessions of the Interresor Working Group, information that no one has offered a solution for Mostar. I am pleased that the Interresor Working Group Report states that the SDP and the DF have offered amendments to the Election Law, however, in no way, since we were not represented in the work of the Interresor Working Group, we have not been informed of how these amendments were considered, whether or not they were even considered what happened to the City of Mostar issue that we all considered the most important issue. And the result of the proposed changes we have come to the conclusion that the most important issue of these changes is actually the question of the gendarmes and the schedules on the lists and the question of whether they will be opened or closed. As far as the conclusions are concerned, it is impossible for the SDP Club to support them because the first conclusion says we accept the Report, so the Interressor Working Group invites us to accept the Report and support unanimously adopted amendments and amendments to the Election Law. So we cannot vote for this conclusion because we do not support these changes. The second conclusion requires an extension of the mandate in the sense that it is working on amendments to the electoral legislation for 2018, slowly, there is a time to work until 2018, there is a time to form an Interresor Working Group. If a deal is to be made for Mostar in due time, and that is why an extension of the Interresor Working Group's mandate should have been requested, it should have been written. And in the end about the procedure. I think it's fair that the Interresor Working Group suggested that this should go in the basic legislative process. There's a majority who could say this goes into emergency procedure, take it or leave it and vote that way. So I think it's a fair approach that gives us a chance, and we don't agree with these legal decisions, that we act in amendment. However, we should adopt this Law by the end of the month and have one session left, and for this procedure, as proposed, we need at least two sessions. Which means there could be two scenarios. One to consider this Law at a session in both readings, to have the same day and first and second reading, with some time for the amendments, and another option to schedule another session. So it would be good to know what the plan is for us to be able to prepare on time, if, in terms of preparation for the amendment. And here, I've tried my best not to get into the measure of the law because we're going to have a chance to discuss it, but these few technical issues are also very important. And I'd like to say it again, so because of the... the conclusions of the SDP offer, it can't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12162	Chairman Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12163	Thank you very much. Here, in the debate on this Report of the Interresor Working Group, there are indeed some questions, of course, which are, in fact, concerned with the agenda, which is the Report of the Interresor Working Committee which, I will once again repeat, was made, in a way, technically little 55 thoughtlessly, that I do not choose some other term, because this bill has been sent to representatives to meet, and the proposal for a law in terms of amendments to be found on the agenda and this House of Representatives, or Parliamentary Assembly, has been delivered, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, through members of this House of Representatives, and these promoters are in this case Mr Hazim Rančić, Mr Lazar Prodanović, and here is my smallness as members of the Interresor Working Group from this House. What do I mean when we discuss this report today? Of course, everyone can have their own vision and each one can in some way be determined by this report. I will also say my position that the position of this House, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was to amend the electoral legislation by the Interresor Working Group, which includes amendments and additions to the Election Law and the Law on the financing of political parties. Also the Interresor Working Group worked, if you read here Report you saw how many sessions it held, how it made its decisions. And that was the methodology of the Interresor Working Group. Indeed, I would like to say as a member of the Interresor Working Group that we have crossed all the chapters of the Election Law, not once, but several times, we have opened discussions, we have held discussions, of course, in some way, through the talks and on the City of Mostar, and have agreed, as members of the Interresor Working Group, that we cannot reach a consensus that we have done anything in terms of change of choice. In that sense, you've seen these proposals today, and that's why they were delivered to you, to get to know them, that this is all, in a way, being done unanimously. I am not going to refer absolutely to any question nor to any of the gender equality issues, I know the background, I know what the goal is and it is done, I can discuss it when it comes to the agenda of the Amendment and the addition of the Law. What I am interested in, as a responsible interresor working group representative and as a member of the Interresor Working Group, is that I believe that we have invested a lot of political and institutional effort and time and that what we have done in the proposal for amending and supplementing the electoral legislation means, meaning one law and another, in a lot of contributions to improving the legal and technical, democratic, if you will and each other, but that it is really not enough and that this is not what we were tasked with. As a result, the Interresor Working Group has proposed such a form of conclusion, it has left that, in some ways, if there is a possibility and time, the agreement is made either at a political or institutional level for about 15 days, 20 days or the day before the election is called, that we, as Parliament's Assembly, as responsible representatives, can adopt it. Here, for this reason we went, and of course the position was the Interresor Working Group to propose these amendments and additions to the Election Law and the Law on the financing of political parties in the ordinary procedure. This morning before this session of the House, I heard from my distinguished colleagues, and I had a conversation with the members of the College, of course, given that this report has been found today, that we have very little time left, and here are the colleagues who have mentioned it, and the question is whether we are really going to be able to adopt this in that regular legislative procedure which from the watchdog of the Rules of Procedure. In view of the fact that, here is a respected colleague, Džaferović, said that we also have another law, a law on equality, means the Committee on Gender Equality in the parliamentary procedure, and that if you have read that business provision, I have reanalysed it this morning, and that is why we are in a position to agree on a longer business procedure. I will be free today, I am in the conversation with my colleagues this morning, regardless of what they will have, I fully respect every opinion, as we have spoken and thought, and everyone has had their own and political and perhaps personal position on these changes, as I do the HDZ Club, including, at this point I would say not to say on behalf of 56 of the total HNS Club, because at this level I did not discuss, but we are prepared to refer these amendments to the Law, or we are asking that this House consider them by an urgent procedure in order to, in some way, succeed in completing this legislative procedure by the start of the fifth month when we can expect the Central Election Commission to hold elections. I also discussed this proposal with my colleague, Hazim Rančić, and with my colleague Lazar Prodanović and Kolgi. There are many opinions that the proposed changes may be insufficient, I will say again, but that they are certainly good and that they would contribute, I would say, both democratisation and some order when it comes to election processes, or local elections that are ahead of us, and that, in some ways, everyone should think about sending this law to an emergency processor. As far as I'm concerned personally, I'm not going to go in, I repeat, in the proposals of these solutions that are here today, we can discuss it when it's a topic of the agenda, but I think that, here's the report made in one correct and fair way and that the proposals are good, respecting the moment and time in which we find them. Thank you very much. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12164	I just want to say that the SNSD Club can't agree that the Interresor Working Group has put forth a lot of effort and given a good result in its work, although you said this is insufficient and that it still needs to be done. In a situation where you have offered the findings of the Interresor Working Group by system take or leave, and here, you have now said yourself that you are planning to adopt the Law by emergency procedure, which says that we will no longer have the opportunity to change, nor any other opportunity to act on this Law, at least as usual so far in this House. I want to say on behalf of the SNSD Club that if the conclusion I suggested on behalf of the Club is taken into account, which is the key, because it is, therefore, a key change which is a retrograde character in the Commission's report, then it can be discussed about hatching the Report as it is, of course, with the other shades that stand, that we can be both for and against. But if he does not pay attention and does not matter what we propose, so that this criterion of sexual equality is maintained as it was in the previous Electoral Law, then the SNSD Club will be in a position to consider voting for or against the Report. And I don't think this Interressor Working Group should be in a position where today, eventually, most of them take down the report, then we're going back to the way things were.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12165	Representative Mirsad Isaković, debate. Here you go, and Šemsudin Mehmedović, the correction of the wrong quote, I apologize, it's at the last moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12166	I apologize for being late but indeed, here I refer to your presentation in the sense that you are planning an emergency procedure for amending and supplementing the Electoral Law, which would mean exactly what the distinguished representative Milica Marković is talking about. Namely, there are several things that are unacceptable and that should be affected by the amendment. For example. There, the Interresor Working Group suggested that in fact that the list-walking quota is increasing to 30%, which, by the analysis of the Central Election Commission and some NGOs, means that you have in some way closed the lists, they are just open character – you see names, which means basically nothing. Therefore, I think it would be very wrong to propose by means of an emergency 57 amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law without possibly correcting something. In this regard, do not expect support for such a procedure of amending and supplementing such an important law as the Election Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12167	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12168	Regarding this 30% walk, which was spoken of by a respected colleague, Mehmedović, I have already said that, we have another danger here. Not because it's the fact that closed lists are being introduced, but that people on the list are being demoted to... We'll have a much smaller voter response to the election. Don't we need a much bigger voter response in the election? So I fully agree with my colleague Mehmedović and that it really has to go to the amendment phase here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12169	Thank you. We're not on the list right now, but I'm giving the word Mirsad Isaković, because there's been a mistake. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12170	First of all, I want to say hello to you and wish you a successful, of course, session of this session. What I would like to point out in particular is the fact that we here have been present mostly with objections to the representation of women in this Law, that is, in this Report. I think that this report, first of all, has been made quite untransparent in the sense that we're just adopting the report, but we're adopting it, I think, and some proposals from this Commission that, in our opinion, are not good. The Commission for Gender Equality, therefore, referred to the amendment of the Election Law in the procedure, which made it clear that the current Law had its own discriminatory items, i.e. discriminatory members, and there we saw that women's representation was 40%. So if we're a society of equal odds, then we should have been 40% men, 40% women, 40% men. We have a position to have middle gender, so 20%. If we're a society of equal odds, then it's logical that we have the presence of 50% women in this law. What the Commission for Gender Equality has said, therefore, in the ordinary parliamentary procedure is that women's representation is 50% and that women's schedule is on the lists, i.e. men and women. We, therefore, have referred these amendments to the Electoral Law before this Commission has delivered this report and it is logical that this proposal for a law be at Parliament before. We don't see why this has changed. Moreover, in this report, we see some items that are truly retogradable to us, in the sense that the schedules of women that are foreseen as in some previous, or worse solutions than in the previous Law. I must remind you that the Commission also held a session yesterday and concluded the following. Since it is about amendments to the Electoral Law that it will send, I would like to point out, that it will, therefore, direct both proposals, and the Commission's proposal for gender equality and this resolution committee, to the Venice Commission, to see what is, or what is 58 of these proposals, of what is right. So this is what I was saying on behalf of the Commission for Gender Equality. And now I'd like to say a few sentences, and what the Alliance for a Bolden Future disagrees on. So, that's, when it comes to Mostar, it's a censorship, when it comes to censorship and other circumstances, not to say the way of funding, which we and the amendment were actually intervening with our proposals. What we have..., so we have also sent a proposal to the Commission when it comes to the way we work, that is, the proposal... informically to make these choices... modern. So I would like to point out once again that the Commission will send one and two proposals to the Venice Commission and ask for an opinion from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12171	Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12172	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I hope you're satisfied. I'm picking up a little today, very little.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12173	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12174	Refreshing, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12175	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12176	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. When I read my discussions and see that I haven't been wrong anywhere, now this might be a bit of a burden. I want to discuss the report or the report not on the metrics and the proposed changes, because that's something we're going to get and what we're going to talk about through the rule of law procedure. A few objections to the conclusions. The first remark on the conclusions is until 2018. By 2018, this looks like when we started talking about this in 1996, then before '98. The elections again and again in 2000, then again in 2002 and again in 2018 we will again, and again, will we ever come up with any solution that will be called permanent? We need to open the discussion on this subject and we need to start to be aware that we need to enable this country to do something where it will not think it will or will not, but the electoral process will focus on full equality. But we forget something else here, we have age equality, let's see here and one student, we actually have students, but let's see by the age of students, you understand me, Professor, we have those who enrolled in fifty-five or those who finished it in 58th, 58th, no, that's not so. But I don't see any age equality here, sexual, age-old, and it looks like it's become fashion that has to be all highly educated, so that's why this is happening what I just told you we have students, but who wrote it down after some late years, etc. We even have some who are perpetum mobile, as people say, come to titles and docents and professors and enrolled in fifty-five years of study, but that's going to be the topic that's going to open, that's one thing. 59 The second is the salvation of what hangs from us as a damar, like a sword over the neck, Sejdić the Finc. Why are we running away from something that's easy to solve and conditioning it through ethno-national divisions and ethno-national orientations? Why do we condition it by territorial division when we can find the modes to make this problem very simple to solve? Because we want to keep the citizens of this country as much as possible by the chain. And now for that chain I'm coming, you know there's a state of Arizona in America, it's got its own Electoral Law, and recently, a small town mayor has been chosen by a cat. No, no, it's not funny, cat. Citizens, as far as they're concerned, there were more politicians and he says, "This guy's not gonna beat us up and steal us and run for office and pick a cat for mayors." _________(?) Is it in the boots? Now that's your equality, everything that breathes has equality. We have to start really, it seems funny, is it, de, but you have it online you can read, we have to start thinking that not by the way we vote but by the election process that we have so many women here, that it's not conditioned by the number of votes. Because this looks like a whole closed list to me like it was in Croatia before these elections they had now, 30 percent of all if your political party wins, which I doubt will ever again, as it has won in the previous election of 200 thousand votes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12179	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12180	Don't tell Džaferović what, I told him what I doubted. 30% of that 200 grand is you know how much, find out on the lists who got you except the one who's running for presidency. But take the electoral unit, for example, the largest one is the electoral unit of Sarajevo – Gorazde by the number of inhabitants. So you have as many voters, so times 30%, no one gets anywhere near, the lists are closed, period. But it's good that I'll never agree to it, not just me, I hope the other people don't. Open list means completely open and ranking by...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12181	Time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12182	the number of votes and points received. Thank you, Mrs. Krišto, there will be a chance that in writing when I come... 60
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12183	Thank you, too. The word is Diana Zelenika, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12184	Thank you. Although my colleagues said most of what I was going to say, but here I wanted to point to the art of the Interresor Working Group, which worked from 14.10.2015 to 22.03.2016, I see held 15 sessions of which lasted for three days, to point out the skills not only to maintain the status quo but to mutilate and reverse electoral legislation regarding gender equality and censorship, which is 10% in all European countries, and now it should be 30%. The colleagues have defined what I am, three basic problems, these are systematic violations of women's rights, and the censorship I mentioned up to 30%, and as Mostarka, of course, and someone who is very in love with my city, I have to point out the question of Mostar City, but I would say not only the City of Mostar but also Travnik and I would say all the cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I have my own vision about it, but now is not the time to enter the measure of the Law, but we are talking about the Report. And in the end, although it has been said so far, I agree with colleagues who have pointed out, i.e. expressed doubts about the intention to adopt the law within a month, and the Interresor Working Group has done nothing for 5 months, and we should now do so by emergency procedure and I would like to stress that I am only in favour of the regular procedure of passing the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12185	Thank you very much. Lazar Prodanović, a debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12186	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I think it's one of my impressions in general that it's positive that the Interresor Working Group had this approach itself, by the number of interested in discussing this issue, this is an extremely difficult area and it's very easy to look at on the side. I will make one impression, therefore, that there were three members of the Parliament Assembly's Houses Colleges in the Interresor Working Group, of which two chairpersons, one of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, three ministers and president of the Central Election Commission, have been implemented in these matters for 19 full days, with one clear commitment to respect the country's constitutional structure, the Constitution of BiH and the determination to try to improve electoral legislation for, above all, the upcoming local elections. In that sense, it was done to the maximum possible, normally if you know, and I believe that you are all familiar with the Rules of Procedure, it is impossible to make any decision without two plus two votes and on issues that were not agreed at least by two members of the Interresor Working Group we did not discuss, and I believe that this is a positive achievement and frankly I was impressed by the commitment of all, uh, members of the Interresor Working Group, here is the chairman, about coming to a solution. 61 I would also like to remind you of earlier interresor working groups, we have been, a large number of MPs of this House of Representatives, happening to bring this to the finale and not to adopt. The commitment of the chairman this morning when we talked about it would be very important for these amendments to the Election Law and another important area that no one has discussed before, it is the Law on the financing of political parties, to be adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly. And I'm really, I mean very pleased with that attitude given that here from 9 recommendations of GRECO six or seven were implemented directly through amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties. Could it have been more? Well, it probably is, but at this point we couldn't achieve more than that there were different attitudes and we didn't waste any time on it. So, I'm thinking if this is fair, if we're listening to everything right now I'm saying I agree with all the remarks. But I'm saying other things, it's not true that the lists are closing. If you want me to provide you with all the executive documentation and for your parties, here's what I'm saying about SNSD, 90% of the candidates with lists at all levels when this law was applied in the current proposal in 2012 would be on the committee lists. 102 candidates from 30 who were elected for the House of Representatives directly had over 30% of their personal votes, please I heard some discussions.... 102 candidates. And if it could happen 10% yes, or 5 to 10% if it didn't... but I must tell you right now, a model of unscrupulous corruption, reference, vote on behalf of the election committees would be eliminated. One who would be... would be appropriate to anyone to hold a position, but also to get a larger number of personal votes. Is this a good percentage? Well maybe not, let's just say maybe I thought differently, but I can't say you know I'm asking, maybe it would be optimal to be ten for local elections and 20 preferential votes for general elections, 20% of the personal votes preferred on the open lists for general elections. What's the position of women? All of us now swear in favour, and I'll say something, for all of us here elected would be a more important decision of our presidency or the board of directors to say – 50% women will be in the top 10 places. It doesn't stop any law, I mean I don't advocate it, don't get me wrong... Second, all 40% of women to be first, it absolutely bothers no one in the current law all of it. The fact is that it's not respected, it should affect that it's a larger number... and it's young too. If the main committee and party presidency say 30% of the youth will be in first positions, the story is finished. But it's better to regulate it by law if possible and none of us have said now that this is an exclusive or excellent solution, that this is the elimination of women who are capable of politics. So, that's, that's some of the questions. I also want to say, I will not go in detail, I say that I agree immediately with the chairman... so this is not our position to support the amendments to the Law, I believe that this House should adopt or not adopt the Report and point and support its reference in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in Parliament's procedure. I also think that there is a need to create an ambience for today's debates to be a support that, possibly until we consider these laws in the Parliamentary procedure, there is another meeting of the Interresor Working Group that would implement these conclusions if they get support, this, here in the House, which would improve electoral legislation. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12187	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12188	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 62 Here are my colleagues who have said quite a lot, and I will still have a few facts, since she advocates here, I apologize only, the adoption of these three conclusions at the end of the report, and among other things, the extension of the mandate. I would remind us at first that the House of Representatives was formed by the Interresor Working Group on 13 May 2015 and the House of Peoples on 18 May 2015. The constitutional session is only 14 October 2015. So here's what I'm asking myself and all of us here, if we really wanted to do this job, why did we fail for six months, and why now it takes an extra month or two to spend our lives as a better, uh, election code text, here's to give extra time to the Interresor Working Group? Uh, so that means that in this business, in my opinion, we got into this one correct and in a way that we really did the job, then, if I didn't say, in May and June of the month, we'd have a finished story, obviously it wasn't. Essential changes can be and do not have to be what you have consensus on. Whether the first three candidates on the list will be provided with one less represented half, in my opinion, it doesn't matter at all. However, this schedule is important from 1 to 30 when it comes to municipal lists or from 1 to that of a row, a regular number when it comes to cantonal, entity, or state lists, and I think that, if that is the point, to install 40% of the weaker sex on the list without defining the position, in my view, that is not the essence and that it is merely satisfying the form. On this proposal of personal votes whether they will be 5, 10, 15, 20%, perhaps in that part and essential things are improved, in the background of what Mr. Lazarević was talking about, is, in order to prevent some electoral fraud, etc. But I think with 30% and above, we're really concreteizing the list, or maybe we're producing some new details of the conflict between the people of one political party on the list to reach that already raised limit or raised ladder. This should be considered, and therefore there is nothing questionable to say that the Interresor Working Group is proposing to the Parliamentary Assembly that we adopt the Interresor Group's report and that we put the point on the conclusion, and that we adopt this part of it unanimously and supplement it. And I think that in this moment, this is not good and that we can do it, here in some regular parliamentary procedure through the amendment phase or through this kind of parliamentary work in the plenary part, this, we can do it in a different way. Let it remain, in my opinion, an open question whether this Commission will receive an extended mandate, although I do not think that you will, when you have not yet and when you have spent those six months solving Mostar's question. The Interresor Working Group will not resolve this, it is a very difficult political issue, which needs to be resolved by a couple, in my opinion, important previous issues, whether or not the Constitutional Court had the right to act on non-domestic legislation, because the High Representative's ruling was not incorporated into domestic legislation. Is the amendment of the Statute by the High Representative in 2004 a violation of the Charter of Local Self-Government, etc. So it takes a lot of these previous issues to resolve the election in Mostar, but we need to give ourselves the task of making elections in Mostar by the end of this year or by some new rules if we adopt or if we properly understand these previous issues, we have solutions, old solutions that we can end this story of Mostar in this year and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12189	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12190	And have the City Council and the mayor, this one, which, in that political story next period, will find someone else, finally, better and better-quality solution for Mostar. Thank you. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12191	Thank you. At the college's proposal, I'll take a break by 3:00, and we'll continue at 3:00. We're moving on with the session. Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12193	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. First of all, I think that the Interresor Working Group's work report is quite dry, without much detail, so you can't really see from this all the efforts that the members of the task force have made to get to these proposals that we have. I've worked in some working groups before, in inter-resor working groups, and I really know that there's been a lot of work going on here, and at the end of the day there have been some 15 sessions here, and we've seen that there have been many institutions and individuals of the proposal, but also the way we normally work and work, and this Interresor Working Group, uh, part of that fate usually leads to results that we can't be satisfied with. I think the ideas and goals we had when we formed the Interresor Working Group were not realised by her work, and I dare say that in some segments we seem to have a step back from the current solutions. That is why I will only limit myself to the conclusions proposed to the Parliamentary Assembly and I must immediately say that when it comes to the first conclusion, the first sentence is acceptable to me – that the Parliamentary Assembly adopts the report on the work of the Interresor Working Group. This part “supports you unanimously adopted amendments to the Law, etc., ” we will leave for discussion when we have the Law and when we see whether or not they will adopt these amendments. It is not logical for the Parliamentary Assembly itself to suggest that it adopts the amendments, so in the legislative procedure we will see what happens. The second conclusion is absolutely unacceptable to me above all because of the results of this... in the amendments to the law. It is not logical that today we are all criticising the solutions proposed by the Interresor Working Group, and then to extend the mandate to continue proposing such solutions by 2018. That is why I will propose a special conclusion that says – The vote on the Work Report ends the mandate of the members of the Interresor Working Group to amend the electoral legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what we failed to do when we reached the conclusion of the formation, we didn't then define how long this task force's mandate was going on, and I suggest that this conclusion is actually what we didn't do today. I'm not going to talk about solutions, we're going to have a chance to talk about them, I have to say that when I took part in a working group we also had such serious ambitions and desires of strong suggestions and ideas, the key result of our work was that we moved the mandate of CEC members from 4 to 7 years. And that was all we did radically then on Election Law. So neither are we able to make further progress here nor are we seriously asking whether the Interresor Working Group is a form that can provide serious, at least a proposal for serious changes in legislation, it seems to me that this method is not good, that we will never get the results of the Interresor Working Group and that perhaps we should start to think about some other variants. 64 When it comes to the third conclusion, there is no need for the House of Representatives to authorise the Constitutional Commission to adopt and determine the consolidated text, there is a clear procedure, precisely when some law is adopted, or the amendment of the law, and I think that this conclusion is completely unnecessary, or that it will in no way move us to do something that we already know is businessly arranged to do. Thank you very much, so many of these two conclusions, which I have, I suggest here, well, which I suggested actually deliver in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12194	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12195	Thank you, Chairman. At first, I will say immediately that we will not support the Interresor Working Group report because it is simply what these conclusions are, and the report itself is not on the trail of what we should have through changes to the electoral legislation in BiH. I have to quote you here, you yourself said that you are not fully satisfied with the work of the Interresor Group and that these decisions on what will be changed in the electoral legislation are being made somewhere else, at a political level, at the level of political leaders. We think that it is the dizziness of all of us, as well as Parliament, that we are extending the work of the Interresor Working Group when they are dealing with technical details and have not entered into the essence of what needs to be changed in the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course we won't talk about solutions, but our opinion that we can't be kidnapped is that it's just political trade between the two parties in the Federation, one interested in selecting a member of the Presidency, another interested in the solution of Mostar, the issue of Mostar. And that is what is essential, as long as it is so certain that we will not get any solutions that are crucial to the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina by this Interresor Working Group. Also this one, these proposals we received are not in line with what we expected, but we have already said this about women's rights, their participation in the lists in this case as a minority sex in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is definitely about backwards solutions and that at least existing solutions that already exist should be kept. For this reason, we believe that a different approach is needed and that it is definitely not necessary to support the conclusions that are coming, proposed by the Interresor Working Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12196	Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12197	Thank you, gentlemen of the presidency. You know, I can't support the work of the Interresor Working Group, we took part in the formation of this Interresor Working Group and the conclusions are what they are, but I don't think that the report on the work should contain conclusions and that, in this way, what the Interresor Working Group has concluded should not be in the Work Report and it should be treated as the Interresor Working Group Report, perhaps only from these three proposed conclusions should be one 65 conclusions, that the Interresor Working Group proposes that the report be submitted and suggested that this report be adopted, and that the results of this work be referred to the parliamentary procedure that we declare in Parliament that it is dealt with whether it is good or not good. In such a way as to prejudge, of course I don't mind the conclusions of these, but it's not good to say that it's unanimous support for this, these conclusions, and maybe some discussion will later show some other relationship. So that would be me thinking very correctly. Then within six months, some things have changed here in Parliament so that this conclusion number 2 would also not be possible to support in this regard. And of course, conclusion number three is something that involves operational affairs, so, uh, he doesn't have a particular need to stand here in these conclusions. So, we're here stating about these proposed three conclusions that maybe, you know, when you look at all this material that had the ambition to be a little bit whole and content, I don't think these conclusions reflect what the Interresor Working Group was formed for, if at this point we're just saying about her work and her report on her work. So, I propose that out of these three proposed conclusions only this one is adopted, where it is said – to adopt the Report and to refer the results of the work to parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12198	Thank you. predsjedavajući Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12199	I will take advantage of the opportunity to correct the wrong alleged earlier is colleague Novaković, now in a way also colleague Đonlagić, because we are discussing proposals, meaning Chapter III concerning conclusions and recommendations. I have a feeling that we haven't read the conclusion correctly, and I'm going to try to read it, and in that sense, I'm going to comment on the correction of the wrong quote. – The Interresor Working Group proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to adopt the Interresor Group's Work Report, and to support unanimously adopted amendments and additions to the Election Law and the Law on the financing of political parties. Here, the Interresor Working Group just wanted to highlight what it is, in fact, in the report, that it has unanimously established, it does not mean that it is prejudge or that it is an obligation to be here in Parliament, not even a recommendation, but to seek support for what the Interresor Working Group unanimously accepted, only in this sense. With full respect for each of the views that someone can suggest a different conclusion in terms of and some different formulations, etc. But just don't get it wrong. Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić, the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12200	Thank you very much for your esteemed chairman. So, both our work and everyone's work is subject to established and reasoned criticism, so here are the three of us who were in the, uh, House of Representatives of the Interresor Group, of course together with colleagues from the House of People and the Council of Ministers and any reasoned criticism, I accept it if it's okay, if it's principled. I do not like any of the day-to-day political..., because unfortunately Sejdić-Finc's verdict, and the Constitutional Court's ruling regarding Mostar, has had its time to do so, and all of us individually, either in this, in the past or in the previous term, could have made an effort and possibly made some of our proposals, and related to the realization of the verdict. And of course, it is clear to all of us, it is not enough that as an individual we have a proposal to solve any problem, but it is necessary for our constitutional structure to provide the required number of votes. And all of us in this session and before and after the Interresor Commission can make efforts to solve these problems, of course in a way that provides the necessary majority to amend the regulations that concern it. But every criticism well-intentioned, that, I accept and have even been prepared, here is what fellow Sokolović said and others, if they understand this sentence in a way that the Interresor Group report treats laws, which, of course, is not true, that the part is deleted. The Honorable President has now spoken, not that sentence refers to our adoption unanimously...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12201	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12202	Amendments and additions to the Law, and absolutely this today's report does not mean considering the Law, but it will only be our turn. The report contains a series of proposals that we have discussed, which were referred to by certain proposings and, of course, a series of proposals were of 12 of us who were and we know that unfortunately, this could be a proposal both like this and both excellent and good and mediocre or bad, but if you don't get a sufficient number of hands, that's not the Commission's position, and then it's not contained in the amendments and additions to the Law. What I'd like to say to myself and to all of us about two or three questions, one of them is the representation of the weaker sex. In our practice, these are, unfortunately, women in terms of representation in the legislative authority, including executives. Perhaps some three or four proposals have been discussed, we have the current situation, so now under the current law, the electoral law to go on at least 2, 5, 8, 11 and that timetable and it gives a bad result because we do not have adequate representation of women in parliaments. We tried to change, and here in the proposal it's contained that it's 40% without knowing where it is and that thing is being challenged. Okay, I'll take it. There were even discussions and votings on how to make the lists one, one, one, one, means female, male, female, male, female, male and so on from the beginning to the end of the list. Here, unfortunately, it didn't go either. Now again we advocate to return to the old solution, not to slow down but I'm just saying, the old valid election law doesn't give a good result, because we realized we don't have enough women represented. I responsibly argue that none of the three solutions to any existing, valid law, any amendments and additions to the law, whether amendments and additions to the law are made in a way or to be made by an amendment, whether you are made in a way that makes you a woman, so a man, and so on, from first to last place, again because of our complexity and our electoral, legal, constitutional and electoral system, will not lead to a re-represented woman. Since I have only one modest experience in the elections in the last 25, six years, I am responsible for saying that in this complex and legal, constitutional and electoral system, one way gives us a chance to have at least a 35-45 per cent chance, - 8 per cent of women in parliaments, which is to close the lists and set one, one, one, one, one, means female, 67 male, female, male, female, female, female, male, male, male, male. Only in such a set of electoral laws and such lists would there be a chance that the less represented sex would be from the municipal councils to the state parliament. Of course, the mention of closing the list has caused an avalanche of criticism of the problem, etc. By claiming that we have open lists, which isn't true, we have half-opened lists and if someone's standing for open lists, here I am. Then it would mean that an individual, a citizen, can up to the number elected to vote on all the lists of candidates of either party, coalition or independent candidates, we can choose within one political entity and circle up to the number to be voted. The current electoral system of the use of party infrastructures, I responsibly argue that this is happening in all parties, I responsibly argue, and the use of such as the election committees are actually producing electoral engineering. The proof of that, we can all check it out, in one cycle several hundred members of the election boards were punished. So the question was why not harder, why not go with criminal responsibility? It is mostly court practice, so after the Central Election Commission's decision, that these people are being punished by a minimum fine. As long as we have such an electoral system he will not reflect the election will of citizens, we already have several election cycles of electoral engineering and if...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12203	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12204	We support or we don't change anything. We'll have the same thing. If I may ask you more colleagues about 30%, about the percentage there was, can I speak only briefly, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12205	That depends on the other MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12206	Here's a colleague and a colleague, please. 30% gives, yes, they say, okay, we suggested it's for moving on the list to raise the percentage by 30%, while on the municipal council we said it was 15%. Based on the analysis we received from the CEC, I am claiming on what I have seen, a huge number of cantonal, entity and state MPs achieve the result of 30% of their party's valid votes in the election unit. So the claim that this percentage is actually a fact-finding list isn't true. I'm not saying this to be trusted, but I call on all MPs and interested people to take analysis from the CEC and see, but it's something else, that 30% reduces the ability of electoral engineering, so that's why we suggested it. If we want to continue to have the electoral engineering and the state we've had so far with the current law, it's not a problem for me to return the percentage of the movement within the list to 5% and we'll have the condition we had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12207	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to comment on my colleague Rančić, not to replicate, don't call us a weaker sex, that doesn't mean that a woman doesn't have somewhere that men are a stronger sex in terms of equality. Damir Arnaut, the debate. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12208	I thank the chairman. I don't think this is, I haven't attended all the parts of this debate, but I feel like I'm going to be among the few people who are going to be able to potential some of the positive shifts that have been made here, although I think, to be absolutely clear, in a year's time, really not enough. But what I think is crucial and the fact that we are facing election call by the Central Election Commission and anything we adopt afterwards simply cannot, can be adopted, but cannot be applied to the needs of the 2016 Local Elections. And here there are some relatively good solutions, some progress, and I think that this is something that we should not ignore, or at least we should not ignore, and we should make every effort to make changes and additions to the Election Law finally adopted and that they should be adopted and effective before the election is called in order to apply them for the needs of the 2016 Local Elections. Because even now to be clear again, I think this Interresor Working Group has done a terrible little considering they've been working for a year. But all of this can have some purpose if we adopt at least some of what they have suggested, and if we don't adopt anything because or if we adopt it after the Central Election Commission has called the elections, it will no longer have a purpose, because it will only get a purpose in two years, and by then we will probably have a solution for both Mostar and Sejdić-Finc etc. So I think we really need to get back to that basic idea, which is to adopt at least some of this in a way that makes sense to apply, or to apply to the 2016 Local Elections. Now, the key question is, and I'm glad, Mr. Magazinović opened it earlier, and I was also going to open it up -- how is this going to be done when it comes to procedure, whether it's going to be a regular procedure or it's going to be an emergency procedure? So far, we have indications that there will be regular procedures, but what we all sometimes forget is that there is a regular procedure, and there is a more regular procedure, and I am saying that of course about Article 112. The Rules of Procedure and I have a feeling that the intention that we are now going in the direction, given that there is at least one session left on the calendar, is that we are going in the direction of doing this in accordance with Article 112, it is formally a regular procedure, but everything is done in one session, is that right, and the minors have been disabled. College members smile, nod their heads, so I guess I hit Wednesday. Now the question is again, so if we do it the amendments really don't have a purpose and most of the amendments won't be adopted and we won't fix some things. There is what Mr. Novaković just said, that we do not need to be defined by the conclusion to do the consolidated text. Absolutely true, these things, they started at least, and that is a very positive practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they started to put in transitional and final provisions to commit two constitutional committees and to make up a consolidated text and that is something that has not been found in this bill, and that is why we need amendments. The amendments are to us, he's already entered the procedure, this will be found in the procedure at the next session, that's, that's now what's going on. And you also need the amendments for sexual representation, etc., etc. Now, now I'm going back to what's the key here, so we don't do it on a shortcut in accordance with Article 112 why don't we apply the best practice in the region? The Croatian Parliament held 02, 03, 04, 09, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 21 March, a total of 11 days. In February, not to read specific dates now, but they're here, for a total of 12 days. What's stopping us from sitting for three days, my people? I mean, it's kind of gotten crazy to sit for more than two days a month, even becomes a practice to sit down one day a month. Why does not the College call for two more meetings in this month and put it into effect – that the law enters into force the day after the publication in the “Official Messenger”. And we can do all of this without calling on Article 112 in 69 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with best practice in the region, do not let me read to you the Republic of Serbia, at least to compare ourselves with the EU country. What's wrong with us sitting for three days when they can sit for 11 and 12 days on a regular basis, etc.? So that's the point, and really this amendment phase is necessary, I think that the ruling majority should take this issue seriously, to do this right, and not to the shortcut, and I really suggest that the Kolega seriously consider this and that instead of calling on Article 112, which I guessed, was the plan for us to just schedule another day of the session and do this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12209	Thank you very much. Aleksandra Pandurević rectification of the wrong quote, but before that only one remark on this, since we as members of the College were visiting the Croatian Assembly and just to tell you, they are sitting all the time, having so-called. Every year, so spring and autumn session and no quorum at the session, there may be three MPs, there may be two, but the Parliament is going on, they only have an obligation when they are at the vote to come and of course do business with that part. And here, as a College, we want to tell you that we've been considering such an initiative and that we're going to propose a session as far as I'm concerned, too, every day if we have material. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12210	I thank the chairman. I just wanted to tell my esteemed colleague Arnaut that we don't have to go far into the region, is my party opposition in the National Assembly, but I will also tell the fly that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska is sitting for 10 days each month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12211	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, Damir Arnaut correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12212	Well, since this is the state parliament, I've compared us to sovereign states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12213	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12214	... it is possible, regardless of all this, given the proposals of the conclusions, to commit the Interresor Working Group regardless of this conclusion to integrate them into the amendments to the Law and that we have it absolutely on time. Because I haven't heard anything new except these two conclusions that have been proposed and which I think would in some way be the balance of what the debate is and what the Interresor Working Group's decision is. That's it. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12215	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement – Proposer: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-37-433/16, from 05.02.2016. The report was submitted in procedure 05.02.2016. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights responsible for considering the Report. The committee in charge delivered its opinion on 15.03.2016. The commission accepted the report, and proposed to the House its adoption with conclusions. The conclusions of the Opinion of the Competent Committee are as follows: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, to submit a report to the Parliamentary Assembly at least once a year on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to conclude an agreement with the entity governments and the government of the Brcko District in BiH that will specify the financing of the BiH Return Fund provided for in Article 24c of the Law on Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to draft and submit a report on donations, i.e. the current spending of donations intended for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with putting all donor projects under control of established coordination mechanisms for Bosnia and Herzegovina. 5. The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with agreeing a definitive solution to collective centres in co-operation with entity governments. Six. It is up to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to draw up a report on unrealised funds for return and funds whose realisation is under way. The report should state the reasons for the lack of funds and measures taken by the Ministry so far to speed up the implementation of these funds. I'm opening a debate. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12217	Thank you very much. 71 This one, I might really be a little embarrassed to comment on, because I'm going to have some remarks on this report, because of the minister who seems to me most often at our sessions, so I hope she understands, she's not just today because of her report, and I'm sure she may be following this most often, but here's some things I really want to say. Since I consider this a very important document that analyses a previous state of affairs, a very important state of affairs, and I appreciate both the hard work and the work and everyone who has invested, uh, the gentlemen of the Ministry, to really bring us here a series of data, information, facts that followed this process. However, I would, somewhere, turn a few of my thoughts at points 7, 8 and 9 of the pages there in the 18th, 19th, 20th, and they refer to, uh, to be more precise, meaning actually on, by the 19th and further, let's say, in the field of education, in the area, in the area, so, attacks on returnees and their property and in the area of employment by obligations when it comes to the '91s list. A year. I appreciate, I say, all this said again, but it seems to me that in this point 7 relating to education, the Ministry is, despite the fact that it was presented on page 20 when it comes to the work of the Ministers of Education Conference, which they put out there, that I am not reading to you now and I am not wasting my precious time. Well, otherwise, there's all that's left or much of what's in the other part of the text. In fact, it seems to me to me that the main information from the Ministry for making up this part, so the information was the Federal Ministry, and maybe a little, uh, they got there to say something that the gentlemen of Republika Srpska wrote to them, I don't know how they got there from the Zenic-Doboj County, because... they listed them there as the institutions who sent them some information. Namely, I would like this whole report to have the Ministry of Human Rights, for example, done as the Ministry of Civil Affairs does with the Ministers of Education Conference, that, when such important documents are, there is a Conference of Ministers dealing with human rights, refugees, exiles, and there are them in the counties, so I don't know if there's anything in it, but I'm sure there are those and that there's something to say about this. In fact, when they use information from the Federal Ministry, so let's say they're talking about textbooks from a national class of subjects, and in one place they say they're not good with texts that are there, I think they're flat-rates, and on the other, it's potential for them to be introduced because the requirements on the ground are different. So I'm reminding you, I've only offered a whole one, an amendment to the law when it comes to a national group of cases, so this is very per se superficial information and it doesn't stand. On the other hand, it is related to certain proposals coming from the Federal Ministry, and I remind you that it is a completely unconstitutional ministry and has nothing to propose, nor has it anything to bring, so there are their suggestions on certain situations, on certain states... segregation, discrimination, their observations. Let's say, there was information here that there was even a lawsuit on that basis, but one fell, and one lawsuit went, that there was some discrimination, somewhere there was no, when it came to two schools under one roof, so calling that phenomenon, that's the question. We use ourselves here, therefore, a vocabulary that is mostly used by the Federal Ministry which has no right to suggest anything, nor can it suggest anything, nor has authority. Well, let's just say, if we just got up when they say they're funding a part of the teaching in Republika Srpska that, I'd like to know what law they're doing, so how do they single out that money when they don't have the constitutional powers to do it at all, but I understand why they're doing it. However, to enter all of this into an important document that will go to lower level institutions to look at it, so that they can say their opinions, I think it needs to be fixed. When it comes to point 8 which refers to employment, therefore, the returnee and is then determined, therefore, that this does not go well according to the '91 list. For years, because of these conditions and findings that are listed there, and indeed one part of those allegations stands, I will suggest certain conclusions. In point 9, it is said that attacks on the vegetables and their property, and it is said to have been the most in the findings of the NGO sector in 2014 and 2015. I don't think it's right to say so, there have been attacks and whatnot in some years and in some places far more, so I'll also be 72 free to suggest some conclusions, and on that condition I'll support that, like this, an analysis like this which will, by some conclusions I've heard here on the basis of the Commission's proposal, be further strengthened by reporting every little bit. So if I don't waste any more time, I'm only going to suggest four conclusions, which means one. The Ministry and the Council of Ministers are tasked with supplementing and harmonising the text of the Report by point 7. within 60 days with the Ministers' Conference of Education.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12218	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12219	Next, I'm just going to conclude here... next: 2. The ministry of the Council of Ministers is tasked with giving effect to a period of 60 days in point 8. Reports shall complement the necessary benchmarks showing the process of implementation of the employment obligation in state institutions and companies in relation to the '91 census. A year. 3. The ministry of the Council of Ministers is tasked with giving effect to a period of 60 days in point 9. Reports of attacks on returnees and property shall be complemented by the necessary parallel tables to be applied on time from the start of the return process until today. 4. That the ministry is in charge that following the fulfilment of the commitments set out in those conclusions, it is said that it will be delivered to other levels to consider this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12220	Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12221	Thank you, Madam Chairman. What am I gonna do? I gotta start talking today. This report, and related to Annex VII, when we read it, we get the impression that the return is practically completed, that it is implemented without any problems and that it is something they say is who in turn. And then he who walks through this country passes through Posavina and sees as that beautiful, beautiful writer Slobodan Đurasović's Sentence – the moon blue, and the sky black, all empty and all the hollows and houses torn down and the estates healed and people gone, that's what reality is. And another reality that's as sewn up as it is or stuck to my back that I'm biased and I want an affair, a robbery at the expense of those who have experienced a terrible fate. I'm not talking about ethnicity or religion or space, I'm talking about all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was an investigative commission here that showed the papers that the brick that cost in the regular purchase was easier for me to talk about rounding the figures, the brand calculated under it, in shape for the returnees of 5 marks. Yeah, yeah, that's true. If then the Federal Parliament, which vi and I were in, had a commission to question spending. So when he found all this out, then one move by the then president of the Federation was lifted and this was said to continue with the authorities in charge. One of these members of that committee alone and still every piece of paper I have, I'm a papyroman, I'm collecting maybe sometimes someone will need it, maybe 73 one of the conclusions should be not this dry, like here in 777 million, of which 529, so much, to see the reality of spending that 777 million and to see how who, and how much he's profited, or destroyed that population. And let's not talk here in a report like this, I don't honor you ministers, you've just inherited this, you've only entered this, and as far as I can tell by what you're doing, you've entered into this with all your heart to do your job. A million and something came back, it didn't come back, we're in a country where in all the places of this where we're holding these sessions, so to every point the people are displaced, it refers to both the Srbin and the Hrvat and the Bosniaks and the minds, to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina as voluntarily, which, through the political press, established as those, when I say established, I mean by ruling, who through this realized the mechanisms to have hands, to create a completely different demographic picture of this country. And the demographic image, whether we want it or not, has been completely changed and that's to say, we need to know, it's because of future generations, that future generations don't do exodus. It's nice to read the reports, but Annex VII is very precise, and I will finish Madam..., I will finish, and you were with me together in the Federation Parliament when this was carried out and even here in this Parliament when the commission here for the examination of dedicated spending worked, you were there, General Halilović led, you were. Maybe it would be good, I suggest, of course, if the Ministry thought, to take a real picture of demographic migration, because there is no, it's not normal that when you come to Mostar, says little Kakanj, it's not normal, when you start to have a settlement and enter, yes, they say – where you come from, from Kakanja, where you from Kakanja, says little Kakanja. As possible, who built their houses next to their houses and then you have renovated houses, let's say, here's the example of Foche, the renovated houses, and the people are being taken care of...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12222	The minute's over. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12223	in Sarajevo and then those houses there are being sold, as they did here on Vratsa, a Buddha why people were selling houses because they got some apartments around Rogatica, Lukavici and I don't know where anymore, they're destroying generations for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12224	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2015, issue: 05/7-50-13-568/16, dated 16.02.2016. The report was submitted in procedure 16/02/2016. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights responsible for considering the Report. The committee in charge delivered its opinion on 15.03.2016. The commission unanimously supported the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. 74 I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 15, Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-629/16, of 22.02.2016, and Working Plan of the Independent Committee for 2016, issue: 05/1-50-19-630/16, of 22.02.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12229	I'll be brief, Madam Chairman. Given that we have the Postal Traffic Agency and it is also competent to approve the emission of securities, which are stamps, it acts not as the Agency which will work as the Agency coordinating the work of three postal systems or three postal systems, but acts solely on a national basis. So if someone says they're gonna put one writer's head on a stamp, others don't vote, they're against it, and they can't print that kind of stamp. Is it possible that we went through the ethno-national sphere as well? ... it's the Agency, you don't have to read it, you have, on all the media you can read it, but to everyone, and it's a paper of value. The special story is, so those who deal with the philatellia take, so since it's a body that's... that's coordinated, I'm keenly interested in how it doesn't react when it's on the mark of the state, and that's a stamp postmark that has no characteristics of the state. Find a country in the world where securities are produced in the form of stamps that have no country code. In this report they didn't state it, for them it's normal. And since it's normal for them and for me it's crazy, not that I'm not going to support it, I'm going to need all the means to get those who work in that agency sanctioned for it. as it is possible that you do not have, again I say, those who are dealing with the philatellia know that it does not, whether it has issued it in Republika Srpska, Herzegovina or in Sarajevo, the country's mark must exist, it must. Well, that's not so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12230	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12231	It's almost my debate, in a way, that's a replica to my colleague Backović. I read in the report that 38 applications were submitted to the Agency's Council for 85 ideas solutions to postage marks, of which the Council agreed on 37 requests and 82 idea solutions. So where is this misunderstanding? The one my colleague Backović is talking about. People accept this. Furthermore, and regardless of this part that my colleague Backović presented, I feel obliged to report on this subject, usually this report is easy to skip, spend on what we think is important and on those endless debates. Here we have a report of a financial agent who spent 90% of the money compared to 2014 so it reduced 10% of the cost. Compared to the planned budget for 2015, 76% of the money was spent, I think. So the business was rational, economically, it found a space for savings, in an area where I as a citizen layman would say that our heads don't hurt. The postal services and mail in this country are working, people are working and receiving salaries, which is one segment of public enterprises that I really expected, and that the first one comes into trouble in this country, that the first one destroys private competition, that the first one has problems, that especially in the time after the separation from telecommunications. That is why I strongly join the Commission's view that we should accept this report and congratulate the people who lead this Agency on the economics, rationality and smooth management of our Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12232	Thank you. 76 I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 18, Ad. 18. Senad Šepić's representative initiative, number: 01-50-1-1574/15, dated 10.12.2015. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 15.02.2016. The commission unanimously adopted the initiative and forwarded it to further procedure. The initiative was discussed at the 25th session of the House. During the debate, the Proposer modified the Initiative, so that it now reads: I propose that you include in the agenda the following sessions as a point – the establishment of a parliamentary group for the promotion of insurance, the right to freedom of faith and beliefs in accordance with Article 18. General Declarations of Human Rights and Article 9 European Conventions on Human Rights. The 25th session adopted a conclusion delaying the Initiative's statement until further information and proposals have been provided in the debate. On 07.03.2016, the Proposer provided further information and analysis on this subject. I'm opening a debate. Senad Šepić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12234	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So very briefly, let me remind you, although you've said most of the procedures. So this is the initiative since December. We had a quality debate in December when we talked about this. You know that in some way, there were some questions that I took responsibility for not having written you before I provided much more information and explanations. So, in the meantime you've all got it and I believe that on those materials you've got now you have a lot, we all have a much clearer picture of what actually one such parliamentary group could do. I also support those initiatives, i.e. the discussions that, when we held this discussion, opened up, in such a way that the possibility of a better, greater engagement of this Parliament was opened in a way that informal groups were being created for various issues. If this is going to be, in some way, the outpouring of one such new, more functional, better, more open action and this Parliamentary Assembly, I think we're all on the same side. Therefore, here I am, since I will not have the opportunity afterwards, once again I call for you to support this initiative and for it to be supported today by this Parliamentary Assembly, and I will certainly be someone who will support this work in some other resolutions, that is, in some other issues that could be treated in the same way in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12235	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Moving to point 19, 77 Ad. 19. Representative's initiative Denis Bećirović, number: 01-50-1-555/16, since 16.02.2016. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for European Integration responsible for considering this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative 01.04.2016. The commission didn't support the initiative. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 20, Ad. 20. Representative's initiative Denis Bećirović, number: 01-50-1-556/16, since 16.02.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12238	Madam Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. I think it's an initiative worth paying attention to, but in order for it to really get its own realization I think this initiative should be forwarded to the Council of Ministers for opinion, by not... The Council of Ministers... decisions regarding... and the choice of those most worthy to find their place as a public monument for the good they've done during the past war. So I think that, in this sense, the initiative should be supported but leave freedom to the Council of Ministers, because if a series of initiatives like this arises, someone says to be in front of parlament, someone to say to be in front of the Council of Ministers, a tall building. I think that this area should be arranged, if it has to be regulated legally, so that anarchy is not made and a good idea does something that maybe no one expects. So, I support the Initiative but that the Council of Ministers do not bind their hands in a local sense. Here's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12239	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 21, 78 Ad. 21. Report by the Commission of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the House of Representative Dušanka Majkić, on the discussion of the letter from the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01-50-1-15-26/16, link: 01-16-1 227/16, dated 22.03.2016. Dom's college failed to agree on the said proposal for MP Dušanka Majkić's conclusion. The debate is closed. We'll come forward later, so in the second round of voting. Moving to point 22, Ad. 22. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on strike of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-24/15, of 10.12.2015.)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12242	A Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12243	We'll do that later... [[Common discussion]] Here's a proposal from Predrag Kožul. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12258	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12259	Individually. Should we read to you? [[Common discussion]] I didn't hear you. _________(?) You should.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12262	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12263	It's my duty to give it to you, are you giving it up?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12264	I draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-05-0.u12265	You're pulling. Thank you. The fourth conclusion was withdrawn. We're crossing, so point 14. – Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2015. We are voting on the report on the work of the Council of National Minorities. Of the 41 present – for 33, no objection, abstention 8. The Federation of BiH 26 for, no offense to 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 7 for, no objection, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2015. Let's go to point 15. – Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2015 and the Working Plan of the Independent Committee for 2016. We are voting on adopting the Report and receiving the knowledge of the Work Plan. First we vote on the report. 86 Out of 41 present – for 13, versus 28, abstention 8. The Federation of BiH 5 for, 23 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska 8 for, 5 against, no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2015. We are now voting on receiving the 2016 Work Plan. Of the 41 present – for 16, v 18, abstention 7. The Federation of BiH 8 for, 13 against, 7 abstentions, Republika Srpska 8 for, 5 against, no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not received the knowledge of the Independent Committee's work plan for 2016. Moving to point 16. – Report on the work of the Commission on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 41 present – for 28, against 6 abstentions 7. The Federation of BiH 21 for, 6 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 7 for, no objection, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Let's get to point 17. – Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2015. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 41 present – for 30, against 9, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 18 for, 9 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 12 for, no objection, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Work Report and the Financial Report of the Postage Agency for BiH for 2015. Let's take point 18. – Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative since 10.12.2015. We're voting on the adoption of the Initiative. Of the 41 present – for 23, against 12, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska has no, 12 against, 1 abstention. With the general majority, there is no entity majority of Republika Srpska. Shall we go straight to the second round? We're going to the second round of voting. Of the 41 present – for 24, against 12, abstentions 5. The Federation of BiH 24 for, no favour, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska has no, 12 against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority but there is 2/3 against Republika Srpska. No initiative adopted. Moving to point 19. – Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative since 16/02.2016. We're voting on the adoption of the Initiative. Of the 41 present – for 13, against 22, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 13 for, 9 against, 6 abstentions, Republika Srpska has no, 13 against, no abstentions. There's no general majority. I understand that we have not adopted the Denis Bećirović Initiative. 87 Point 20. – Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative since 16/02.16. We're voting on the adoption of the Initiative. Of the 41 present – for 23, against 12, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska has no, 12 against, 1 abstention. With the general majority, I find there is no entity majority of Republika Srpska. Shall we go straight to the second round? We're going to the second round of voting. Of the 41 present – for 23, against 12, abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH 23 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska has no, 12 against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority but there is 2/3 from Republika Srpska. I find that Denis Bećirović's initiative was not adopted in the second round. Moving to point 21. – Report by the House of Representatives' College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Dušanka Majkić, on the discussion of the letter from the Office for Auditing BiH institutions. I remind you that we are voting in the second round on Dušanka Majkić's proposal for a conclusion. Of the 41 present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat our vote. Of the 41 present – for 14, versus 12, abstentions 15. The Federation of BiH 11 for, 10 against, 7 abstentions, the Republic. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
