ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21162	Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 5th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow our work, media representatives. The meeting also invited BiH Statistics Director Velimir Jukić, director of Republika Srpska Statistics Institute Radmila Čičković and director of the Federal Statistics Institute of the Federation of Emir Kremić. The Office of the Chairman of the Council of Minister Denis Zvizdić delivered a notice on 27.05.2016 that the chairman will not attend today's session, as he is located outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also from the Office of Deputy Chairman-in-Office of Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda's Council of Ministers, the same day came notice that he was unable to attend a meeting of the House of Representatives, as the same day is the appointment of a meeting of the Commission to elect the Director of the Direct Taxation Board, to which Mr Bevanda, as the President of the Commission, is required to attend. Mr. Bevanda has authorized Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury Mr. Mirsad Žugo to attend the session. We warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. MP Monika Tomić announced a delay in the session. According to the Service, we have 36 MPs present, so I realize that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The 5th emergency session of the House was convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure with one item of the agenda, as indicated in your call. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Denis Bećirović
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21163	Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen, respected media representatives. This kind of session usually requires two key reasons, a reason for urgency and a reason for justification. Unfortunately, we have not fulfilled one today, neither today nor has there any valid reason why this session has been convened so quickly, and there are no urgent reasons. With that in mind, the Honorable Chairman, I strongly suggest, at the very beginning of this session, that you take a break of 30 or more minutes as a narrow college, to call on the extended College together with you, and that perhaps this topic which today is being run to try to reach certain agreed positions, because if not even the College, nor the extended College has agreed views for anyone to expect 42 people to agree today during this debate. Otherwise, 2 if we enter this session in this way, I am afraid, and I am convinced that today's session will be a festival of chauvinism, nationalism, primitiveism, insult and counting of ethnic blood cells. So, if that hadn't happened, that they wouldn't be looking at these frustrations and insults today, I call on the College, so to call that session of the ropes of the College and the extended College and try to channel today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21164	Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21165	Dear Chairman, I welcome you and the deputies, representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, all present in the hall. On behalf of the SDP Club, I propose to supplement the agenda of the 5th emergency session at the end of the agenda – Information from the Council of Ministers on the commitments made from the letter of intent for an arrangement with the IMF. We believe that both the BiH Parliament and the public should be informed of what the domestic authorities have committed and what obligations they have made in exchange for the money from this loan. We believe that it is not in any way a secret document and that it should be made public and publicly available. Unlike the previous point, the reason for urgency certainly exists, as well as the reason for justification. It would be good for us to receive a letter of intent at today's session and to make sure that it is true that in this letter it writes, quote – "That the Government of the Federation of BiH, in consultation with the World Bank Group and or the EBRD, will complete a financial and operational thorough assessment of the value for BH Telekom and HT Mostar by October of this year and sell all their shares in these companies by the end of next year." It would also be good, and I call on my fellow Members to accept this supplement to the agenda, to see if the letter intends to, among other things, – "We will not take any action that threatens financial stability, including imposing any foreign currency loans into domestic currency. We are aware of the key importance of this commitment to the success of the extended arrangement." So, I don't know if this is true, but I think it is important and that it is urgent, perhaps more important than this point which is the reason for today's gathering, to get the letter of intent, to get the Parliament of the state to know the content, and thus to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21166	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21167	I thank the chairman. I first wanted to ask you to keep an eye on the MPs who use an inappropriate dictionary here and accuse someone of some kind of chauvinism. I guarantee at least all of us, here are 13 Serbian nationalities from Republika Srpska, that we do not recognize each other. As far as SDP's demands are concerned, I think that's essentially good, and we wouldn't have any problem in principle supporting that if we had ever had the opportunity for the previous four years of SDP's authorities to know what it was in the IMF's letter of intent and what arrangement it was concluded with the IMF. So to set such initiatives, one must have at least a small dose of principle. For example, I would support such an initiative from the DF club, because I remember perfectly well that Mr Željko Komšić, 3 as a member of the Presidency, opened the issue of borrowing, and you from the SDP then did not, and then the Council of Ministers, honored him, either, as a member of the Presidency, to send full information, at least as far as I know, from the media, that was when I informed myself of all this. So when you're principled then you can have support, although I'm saying I agree completely with this, but given who this initiative comes from, we can't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21168	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21169	I thank the chairman. There's no need to get excited, it's not good. So, I'm glad you agree, that's all I agree with but I won't vote for it doesn't go into the same sentence. And we don't have a problem with that either. If coming in another light turned on, democracy came in, everything that was bad remained somewhere on the side, then I guess you don't have a problem showing a different practice. But I'm going to remind you that my initiative today, too, is not my initiative, but the Club, but I put it out, aimed at us as MPs, and then the public, we hear what's going to happen in the country, and what we're going to get money from the IMF for in return. Maybe, I'm not saying, but maybe the SDP problem, among other things, that he didn't agree to privatising Telekom, might be the SDP problem. And maybe that's why he was cruelly spoken, not by the locals, but by the foreign ones, I say maybe, Elektroprivreda too. But it used to be, here we are now at a time when everything is transparent and I don't know who in this House can have a problem with making the letter known and seeing what the authorities have committed to in exchange for money from the IMF. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21170	Just to remind you, Mr. Magazinović, that you should give it in writing... Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21171	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21172	You did, okay. Šemsudin Mehmedović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21173	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I know that the College is an interpreter of the Rules of Procedure and of the Rules of Procedure, but now, in my humble knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, I think we should at least get information from the Council of Ministers so we can prepare ourselves for this session. Can you tell us why we're even invited here today if the session isn't prepared, or, here's the president, neither of us, has one deputy, sorry. I expect that we have some written material, that we have information from the Council of Ministers about the activities, otherwise I don't see the purpose of today's session at all, or if a session is called just to get politically involved, as someone said we're giving various reviews and estimates of the census here. I'm asking you to prepare this session for us otherwise there's no point in keeping it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21174	Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong quote. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, this is the confirmation of the exact quote, not the correction of the wrong one, but there is no section here, this is exactly what Mrs. Pandurević said. And I also agree with what the SDP Club is proposing, although this is not the topic of today's session. I think it would be very good, and here if the SDP Club wanted us to look together for an emergency session about the IMF arrangements, not one, but arrangements with the IMF, because I would really like from the first IMF arrangement to the day today to finally see what was written in those texts, and by whose decision they were concluded, or whether they were concluded in accordance with the law governing the conclusion of international agreements and contracts. My modest knowledge as a lawyer says they have never, or ever been subject to consideration in the presidency, or in the BiH Parliament. So, I join this SDP Club request and here we will be very happy to sign an emergency session request when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21176	Deputy Chairman Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21177	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. This session was convened by the Chairman of the House on the basis of the provision of Rule 68 of our Rules of Procedure which discusses calling for an emergency session. This provision clearly states that, exclusively from the regular situation, which involves consultations in the College and the Home Work Plan and the mandatory agenda, at least 5 representatives may, at the request of the majority of the members of the College, when there are legitimate reasons for this, also convene this emergency session. The same provision further states that, in this case, the agenda of the session may be proposed at the start of its maintenance, and the materials divided at the session itself, and the chairman should react within three days of the date of receipt of the mentioned request. I think that the Chairman of the House had partial only conditions for calling this session, which is the necessary number of signatures, it is true that 6 of our colleagues were signed with a request for this session, but I think that this part, the second part of the provision, which speaks of legitimate reasons, is not properly assessed and I appreciate them in a completely different way. If it hadn't been for last session of the House of Representatives and if it hadn't been for the same point of the agenda, and if it hadn't been accepted by the House, then these arguments would probably have been weaker. So, at last session of the House of Representatives on the proposal of our colleagues and colleagues, we voted on whether or not we would have it as a part of the agenda, and the House of Representatives did not accept it. We now get the same situation based on the provisions of emergency or special sessions, even though we know what this House's attitude is about. That's why I think, so I'm not going to suggest removing this item from the agenda, because I know what the outcome of the vote will be, because my proposal will not get the least entity majority, and I will not suggest it. That is why I think, the chairman, for the sake of the minutes, for the sake of future practice, for our future relations and all that, for the sake of this Parliament's work, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, that you should put your proposal to hold this session with this point to a vote here in front of this Parliament and make it clear to Parlamet. Whether you do so or not, it is your position now, you are the chairman of the House, but I do not think we should, none of us, based on the position we have, and we know what the will of this Parliament is, try to result in some decisions beyond Parliament's will. 5 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21178	Thank you, fellow deputy. The chairman, Mr. Bosić, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21179	So, upon receipt of the request, the six MPs to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman, should schedule an emergency session within three days, subject to the fact that the request is justified. So it's a subject that has deeply upset the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, it's very important, and not only more professional, but also a political decision that has been made, it's about the principles on which this decision has been made and I have assessed that this is a sufficient condition that there are reasonable reasons for the House to discuss such a topic. I don't know what the House of Representatives should be politically discussing if not important topics concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is a subject that has great weight for Bosnia and Herzegovina and I don't see any reason why this topic doesn't open up here and that the public, or MPs, can't hear what it is, that they don't hear different sides, and we assume if they have a good will, that they can help solve this problem. Because we have a problem, you all know we have a problem. So I used my business opportunities and called this session, so not at the request of the SDS Club, but at the request of the MPs from the SNSD Club. As for the other points of the agenda, which are proposed by the SDP, I don't know from Mr Magazinović, this is an emergency session that is scheduled on the basis of this topic. It is not defined in the Rules of Procedure as defined, whether it is possible to add new items to the agenda or not, but it was logical that here too, here I am not ranking which is a more important topic at the moment, to propose also for an emergency session or to propose for the agenda of the next session. Now, we've heard that there are enough MPs who would support this idea of yours, but I'll put it to a vote and this proposal of yours, although I think it would be smarter not to discuss it now, but to get the conditions. I am aware that due to the shortness of the request for a session and this session, we have a problem that there is no report by the Council of Ministers, but the report by the Council of Ministers will likely be consistent with what it receives as a report from statistical institutions. So here are the main people of statistical institutions who should explain this whole situation and, in my view, we may even contribute to calming tensions about what we've been brought into. And I wouldn't be discussing what it means to what we've been brought into, it should be one debate. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21180	I thank the chairman. So, you're partly right, calling a session is one question, but the agenda is another question, completely separate, treated with two different members of the Rules of Procedure. And it is true that if five MPs ask and the chairman of the House considers that this request is justified, Article 68. The Rules of Procedure allow an emergency session to be called. But you're just here to call an emergency session, you haven't come to the agenda yet, and the agenda is defined by Article 70. Rules of Procedure. And that's a completely different question 6 and the agenda can't determine five people together with the chairman. The agenda, if this is not a mandatory point, shall determine the only and only extended College. Article 70 does not make any exception for an emergency session compared to a regular session. So, if a regular session of six people is not subject to the agenda but is decided by an extended College, unless it is mandatory to do so, this is not, the mandatory points of the bill and those who have passed the procedure in the commission phase, so if six people can't impose on us the agenda for the regular session, then they can't impose an emergency session on us. And this interpretation is also supported by Article 68. The rules governing this, or agenda at the emergency session, say that in this case the agenda may be proposed at the beginning of its maintenance, proposed. Unlike a regular session, no one's decided. When we arrive at the joyous session, we have a draft agenda from an extended College and an extended College established it. No one's established the agenda here yet. So, you're obliged to put this point, or the overall agenda on the vote. If you get most, including the entity majority, this agenda will be confirmed to you, but if you don't get these points, there's no agenda. So, you're right, you had the basis to call an emergency session, but you have no basis to impose along with five MPs the agenda of this House. Therefore, I demand that you put this agenda on the agenda, or a draft agenda on the vote as a member of the 68th, and says that you can propose the agenda at the beginning of the session. If you don't suggest it, we don't have the basis to work on any agenda because we don't have it, no one adopted it, the extended College didn't discuss it. Are you saying that you and five MPs have the right to propose a agenda? You do not have, you do not have a member of the Rules of Procedure who you can call upon to say that you have the right, together with five signatures, to propose, or adopt the agenda, to impose a agenda on us. You have the right to call a session, but the agenda is a completely different question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21181	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21182	I didn't happen to report first today for setting the agenda, because I knew that Parliament would come into this position. And once again, I remind you, for any serious or serious session, three basic conditions need to be met, such as urgency, justification and appropriate material. Does anyone here have the right material in front of them for this agenda point? We all know we don't have the right material. So there is no serious prerequisite for a serious debate today at the House of Representatives session. And therefore, I repeat again, the proposal that the Honorable Chairman take a break and call on the extended College. As can be expected, and from your discussion and previous discussions is visible what I didn't know at the beginning of the session, I assumed but I see that it is true that there is no consensus within the three members of the House of Representatives, how then to find a consensus among the 42 MPs here in the House. In order not to, therefore, come into that position, I repeat, and open today a festival of arguments, arguments and debates that are not going anywhere and nothing at all, I suggest you take another break, try to come to some conclusions, and if anyone here today thinks that something and illegal has been done by the competent agency, then we know which authorities are to deal with the team. We're not a court.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21183	Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21184	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I am surprised by the way my colleagues interpret the Rules of Procedure, and even by the people I am convinced that this Rules of Procedure know very well. For me here, the thing is quite clear. So, article 68 said certain conditions, colleagues, the Club of Members of the SNSD proposed, in accordance with that member, five colleagues, in this case six colleagues, had requested an emergency session. The discretionary right of the House of Speakers is to establish justification or not. In this case, the Chairman of the dom used this right and found that there were reasonable reasons for calling the meeting. The agenda of the session was delivered when the session was called and there is no dilemma, so we are not playing that we will call an emergency session and we will not vote for the agenda and we will split up. You don't think that's what we meant when we wrote the Rules of Procedure. Of course not. The second part that says that the agenda can be established implies, what some colleagues have been talking about, that it can be extended by another point if the House votes. And that, as I understand it, is the chairman of the dom and said that this second proposal will also be put to the vote, which will fully satisfy all the requirements set out in Article 68. Indeed, the way we do not want this session to be held, or some colleagues do not want this session to be held, leaves me in the belief that we are rightly seeking its maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21185	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21186	Thank you. Well, if what Mr. Novaković said is true, then definitely the Rules of Procedure has been broken, so if the agenda is established before the call, before the session is held, and it was determined only by the chairman of the House at the request of five or six MPs, then we do not have a valid agenda, because the agenda before the beginning of the session can determine only the extended College, you know it well and Mr. Novaković should know it. So, I'm not going here at all to measure what's being asked here to discuss it today, I'm just going to go to the fact that if we make this precedent today, that I think we can expect, especially from the opposition, that every month here five of them will be signed here and that we have an emergency session every month about important and irrelevant things. So this is about the Rules of Procedure and the dangerous precedent that you can introduce, above all expensive, above all expensive, because besides regular sessions, calling emergency sessions with only one item of the agenda is expensive and unjustly expensive. I'm here to keep us sitting, but with more agenda points, not to call an entire session for one item of the agenda. And we can expect the opposition to use this precedent and then impose it on us as a practice. And it's really not a good practice. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is if you set the agenda before the session without having discussed the extended Kolega, if you are on the contrary asking to do so today at the session, then you are doing so in accordance with Article 68 which says - the agenda can be proposed, and when something is proposed then you vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21187	Well, I know that... as legal interpretations, you can interpret everything alive anyway. So how do you think I'm gonna call in and how am I supposed to assess the eligibility of the session's appointment if I don't say what this is about, is that even possible? Is it possible without theme and without agenda to schedule a session? Well, it's clear what a healthy logic is in that. And now if you're going to ask for a reason not to hold a session, I accept, I think you can find various reasons. 8 Damir Arnaut, is that it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21188	Now the second member of the Rules of Procedure, if you want to take part in the debate, uh, you need to go out for a pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21189	Okay, thank you. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21190	Imagine if fellow Arnaut, when he was an opposition, knew about this member, we would have sessions every three days. But now it's a different situation, now he's warning us what the opposition might do. But the joke aside, his interpretation, especially the part where he says we have the right to propose a agenda point is very acceptable to me. I also understand fellow Bosić as chairman who, not wanting to combine the importance of these two topics, you suggest that we could call a separate session related to the stand-by arrangement. I understand that. But you know what the difference is between these two points. For the one proposed by the SNSD Club there is no material, and for the one we have suggested there is, here's the floor above just needs to be copied and shared with people a letter of intent. So what we're proposing is very simple to do, 42 times copying the letter of intent and dividing people. They don't even have to explain what it is, we can read for ourselves what we have to do. So it's not true that we got 550 million, it's true that we owed a billion and 100 million marks, not 550 million euros... So this 550 sounds less, and then they say they get 550 million euros. We didn't get anything. We need to know what the letter of intent says, and that's why I'm proposing this. Mr Komšić's proposal, also very acceptable, to publish all stand-by arrangements, very acceptable. For a part of the stand-by arrangement, even he could prepare the material, because as a member of the Bureau he had insight into the stand-by arrangement. But it doesn't matter at all, so we sign everything to make a public proposal and see what was signed, a team before SDP asked about the stand-by arrangement in them wasn't selling to a telecom operator. So let's do that and let the public see that we don't come into a situation where we have to explain to someone that the milk is white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21191	Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Replic is the chairman. I understand the request to call an emergency session and understand your position, but what I disagree about, and as far as your presentation is concerned, is that the report that would possibly, if we adopt the agenda point and start working, be submitted by the Director of the Statistics Agency, cannot be equal to the Council of Ministers' Report. Here, it's controversial to me, and I don't think that this term should be used, because here we have, on several occasions, postponed item 9 of the agenda Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2015, waiting for it to come to the presidency that we have a full Council of Ministers so that we can discuss it on the subject. Here, I'd only ask that if we get into a situation to consider this item of the agenda, we have a report. Now let's just see if it's today or whether it's a delay, so for another period, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21193	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21194	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues from the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. Well very, actually, it sounds very strange to me today that this debate about the appointment of this special emergency session, and I think the chairman of Bosić is absolutely right, that the SNSD Club has quite businessly submitted the initiative. And it wasn't the intention of discussing air streaming here through Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was precisely what this unfortunate country was divided into. I expected that, outside the request of the SNSD Club, you who dispute that when you see that one constituent people has any problem, has a dilemma, not to say that it is too glare in all institutions, will seek a session and say – no, let us talk. We are present at this session today to attend the dispersion of the earth. Except that we're going to fight with each other, I'm afraid we're not fighting with the international financial institutions that need Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree to talk about everything, to keep all the papers out of sight, but the way we're dealing with things is dangerous for the country. And if you need material from the Council of Ministers, okay, no problem, get ready, but running away from the discussion of the problem that is evident, I would like you... public change in Republika Srpska related to the list,... is also a task. I know what the Federation's position is, but here are the most responsible people to talk about, to say – our friends have a problem, one people has a problem, let's see what the solution is. Well, the list is serious in every country, it's supposed to be a day, some lucky day for the state. To not be like it was in '91. and denied the list and accepted the results. We're specific, by all means. And I'm up for it let's talk. Any material if you need to prepare it, okay, let it prepare, but it has to be, people, talk. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Time, okay. I have a feeling that the results have been published here before the debate. And it's dangerous for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some media have already published the results He's saying something's wrong. [[Employee is warned on time]] And that's why I think it's the agenda, that the chairman did according to the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you to show us at least today the will not to fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21196	Thank you. Damir Bećirović. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21197	I'm sorry it came to this, because we see that the College has no common position at all, and I'm not talking about whether there's justification and urgency here. I'd just remind my colleague Arnaut that we've already asked for an emergency session that you refused, which the College refused, concerning Mostar's Election Law, means where we had both materials and a new proposal, but you simply refused it without any justification... What you're doing right now doesn't make any sense. You called a session for which there is no material. And we're gonna get here, there's gonna be a fight, there's gonna be no problem for no reason, and there's no justification or urgency for this part of the agenda. Where there was both this urgency and this justification you didn't want to call an emergency session as a college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21198	So it wasn't the College's decision, it was the business right of the chairman to consider the purpose of holding an emergency session. Therefore, there was no agreement in the College at that time on these issues. Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21199	The chairman, therefore, absolutely in accordance with Article 67, scheduled an emergency session, which was therefore called in accordance with Article 68. My correction of the guilty states is about the exposure of the esteemed colleague Arnaut. If the extended College decided to call an emergency session whose agenda proposed at least 5 MPs to the House of Representatives, hypothetically it could never be held. And if that method were to be classified then it would be clearly written in Article 68 that the establishment of the agenda proposed by the chairman, and mostly the chairmans do so in accordance with the business powers, the final determination would be verified at the extended College. And one more thing, therefore, is that the College, in the extended composition, includes on the agenda and other issues that the authorised proposings have delivered to the House and which are within its jurisdiction. So, even if the chairman had proposed this agenda, this would be a question in the College that could not be discussed would be a mandatory item of the agenda. And another remark, I express my satisfaction, I believe that we will have a lot of emergency sessions in the House of Representatives, and I think there are... reasons, and every time the chairman has scheduled such SNSD sessions, he will answer such a call. But one question the SDP MPs' club is proposing here. Imagine suggesting that the agenda be removed while at the same time proposing supplementing the agenda... If we voted..., so one of your members talked about it..., so if this item of the agenda was taken off the agenda, hypothetically it might, we don't have any business mechanism for working on the proposed new agenda point. And yet another, the College, or Chairman of the College, could suggest, although it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, to vote on who is to take down the mandatory agenda. It happened, I must say, also, not just at..., but at the chairmanship of the College, although I consider it to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In that case, I must also say that this agenda item would not be removed from today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21200	Correction of the Wrong Allegation, Dušanka Majkić 11
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21201	... Because this is what you've done exactly in accordance with Article 68. [[microphone is not enabled]] It is not an accident to call a session set up within the framework of two members. The first to define regular sessions and convene regular sessions of the House and the second case when it comes to calling an emergency session. What is it, here, between those two cases? So, extremely, extremely, and urgent sessions are exceptional, from Article 67, which defines the regular sessions of this Rules of Procedure, for justified reasons, so justified, it is the chair, in matters of emergency meetings, at the request of at least 5 MPs, which is done, or at the request of most members of the College, or at the request of not... MPs and members of the College, but at the request of the Members of Parliament or of most members of the College, the Chair of the House will convene a meeting within three days of the date of receipt of that request. The chairman had no choice, so he had to call a meeting on the Rules of Procedure within three days. And now keep an eye on the rest. So, in that case, the agenda of the session can be proposed at the beginning of its session, so it didn't have to be defined either. If five MPs asked to be held he didn't have to be at all, we could have come without the agenda and heard what the agenda was here at the House session. And the chairman had the agenda and only did what business was possible. So we don't interfere with calling regular sessions and calling emergency sessions, and we start working.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21202	Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am correcting the wrong allegations of Mr. Prodanović and Mr. Nikola Špirić, who unfortunately is not there. So, Mr. Prodanović, we have just been using business provisions to expect that we will establish the agenda in this Assembly and that is why we have proposed a new item of the agenda and, of course, to make it clear. And as for Mr Špirić, here in short, given that he is not here, I will tell him that when I see him, so we are not representatives of the people here, we have the House of Peoples who have that function, we are representatives of the citizens, and you from Republika Srpska are representing, among other things, all of the citizens of Republika Srpska. So that's not exactly what we should be talking about in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21204	Deputy Chairman Borjan Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21205	Thank you very much. I am taking the opportunity to welcome distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all present members of the Council of Ministers, guests and to wish for the successful work of this emergency session. Namely, I've come forward to correct the wrong allegation, not alluding to anything special, but to what we've actually heard here as some sort of attitude whether we should vote on the proposed agenda or not. I would remind all of us to be principled. There's a lot being said here when it comes to the agenda. As far as I'm concerned... The SNSD and colleagues and colleagues who submitted this request are fully legitimate and the session is thus, based on the powers of the chairman and called. We've had emergency sessions so far... we haven't discussed the agenda, but let me remind you, the 12 colleagues had consent. We have a situation today that we came here because as members of the College, we didn't all look at the same justification, so we're discussing this point. In this context, we can discuss even other points today, here's the SDP Club proposal, so we had in previous sessions, and we can say on other points whether or not it will be. But what if we called this session was already called on one topic. I say this exclusively, and I want to underline a principled position that should be worth it when it comes to the Rules of Procedure and the future of any subject. So, to take care of whether there is justification for an emergency, of course, it's everyone's responsibility in that sense, and whether there are, therefore, legitimate reasons for calling and arguing, respecting whether there's material and everything that we can discuss competently. So what I'm saying is, I don't know, I don't even have our club president today, we're not absolutely burdensome about it. Neither to discuss such matters nor to decide otherwise, but we are solely for an attitude to respect the Rules of Procedure when it comes to an emergency session and we do not have any burden to discuss such a topic today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21206	Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21207	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all ministers to the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues and others present, especially guests from credible statistical institutions. We can all interpret the Rules of Procedure in one way or another, we can ease things in the way that was already present here. We all know exactly what this is about. This country has a problem, and this is how to publish census data under the Census Act. The only thing that was reasonable and possible was that in the institutions that were formal legislators, which is the Council of Ministers and Parliament, we are discussing these issues here, without insult, without any nationalist statements. I believe that there were enough arguments in the public presented in a few days that all people who wish well for this country would accept this concept of ours and I think that using the Rules of Procedure and the business opportunity, and based on everything we saw when we set the agenda at the last session, we have done a completely legitimate activity. If the Deputy Director of the Statistics Agency of the Order of the Serbian People says that the decision is illegal, and that is his opinion, I would like to welcome him, if the Minister in the Council of Ministers does so, if a member of the Republika Srpska Presidency says so, if the Government of Republika Srpska says so, respecting our humble opinions or knowledge of all this, so I think it is perfectly logical and normal that in this country, then in the institutions of the country, which has proposed and passed the law, we are discussing this issue. And that's our effort, our desire to talk about it here. I call on all colleagues who are not thinking as MPs from Republika Srpska are now thinking to make an effort to get out of this situation in a way that the decision taken is being taken out of force. Because I want to say that surely, if we impose solutions on each other, and obviously here is a kind of imposed solution, we will keep going back to the population list and constantly, any topic in this institution and other institutions in this country, we will keep coming back in the way the list is published and we will keep going back to the problem. Here it is necessary, not for us to deal with some political types of bickering, I understand that politics is everything, here I will finish, we need the position of the institutions, the position of the Council of Ministers, the position of Parliament. Maybe each other can be helped, but... Perhaps... that 13 don't use some decision, here I will end up chairing some decisions that have been unilaterally made in this country. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21208	Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić. Is she retired?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21209	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21210	Well, then it's a mistake. So, Zaim Backović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21211	I'm sorry. Given the urgency of the session and that it might be valid at this session to discuss the subject proposed, it would be necessary to call, take at least half an hour's break and get relevant materials. I don't want to talk here about something based on newspaper signs, statements, opinions on television, opinions, I don't know where, but I want to talk about it on relevant documents, not on what the people say. I ask you as chairman to provide us with relevant documentation, or something called the Council of Ministers' decision, the decision of this, the decision of it, and so on, and then let us discuss here. Otherwise, this can only turn into a conversation about what I heard, what I have seen, what I have possibly read in some media, the opinion of one or this one, or finally that I am expressing my own opinion, without owning it, and that I have read what official views, reasons and ways of making a decision based on which to publish the final results of the census in Bosnia and Herzegovina are going to be published. I also stress that this is a predstavnički of Representatives or a House of Representatives and that from any entity that we come we do not represent any national group, an ethno-religious group, however you wish, but we represent all the citizens of that entity. In fact, we represent all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of whether they are Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin and members of other peoples and peoples. We are here to represent the interests of all those who are on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its citizens. Once again, I ask you to provide us with relevant materials, otherwise I say again, I agree with Mr Denis, this can turn into something that is anti-substantial to discussions, or something that can have far-reaching consequences for relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21212	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to Mr Backović's presentation, which said that here the proposings of this agenda point want to conduct a discussion based on media statements, based on adverts, etc. Mr. Backović, we have here a decision by the Director of the BiH Statistics Agency and the SNSD Club, so one constituent nation, except the SNSD Club, respecting what Mr. Staša Košarac said who has all challenged this decision by the Director of the Statistics Agency, so one constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is challenging 14 of this Decision. We are not asking that she is, therefore, not in accordance with the law, and this Parliament has passed the Law on the census, and we are not asking for anything else but for Parliament to be shown about this factual state. And don't impute anyone here to seek, as I say, unthinkably and unargumentedly that a certain debate is being held in this House. About what you're saying and what you're saying is that this is a House of Representatives and that no one here represents one, no people or anything, but we are all representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, only if you said that we are all Bosanac and Hercegovac here, then that would be a complete statement. I warn you, therefore, of the provisions of the Constitution and warn you in the way this House of Representatives decides. It is decided, therefore, mostly but decided by entity principle, and here the representatives of an entity dispute this Decision. If you think that avoiding today is to have a debate and a discussion about a decision like this and that the Law on the census has been violated, that it means that Bosnia and Herzegovina should turn to the ground and move on to the field of voting, non-compliance and ignoring the attitude of one constituent people, one entity in this country on such serious matters. And the publication of the census, the results of the census, don't forget, is one of the three conditions required of Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to accepting an application for candidate status. If you think that both the Coordination Mechanism and this Decision should have affairs in this country in front of the European Commission and the EU, then I don't know what to say unless the SNSD is more involved. So we ask that things be run and done in a legal way.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21214	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21215	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The agenda item is the Information of the Council of Ministers on the Decision to adopt a Single Processing Programme. We don't have this information. And I'm asking for this moment to make a stenogram of what I was saying. I'm speaking in the first person of the one, I'm not going to discuss it based on information and, and, and, and, ma'am, you have to listen to what someone's saying. If I was speaking in the first person of the one, then I didn't mean you. Maybe you read it all, maybe you have all the materials, I don't have them. And I was saying, again, in the first face of the one. It is true that we have the system as we have, but in the constitution of each entity is written by Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin, Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Croats of Bošnjak, Srbin, and the Constitution of Republika Srpska and the Constitution of the Federation and the Constitution of the State. Thus, no matter who is elected, he represents all its citizens, all, regardless of their name, last name, ethnic, religious, or any other belonging. Because belonging to an entity does not mean belonging to a national group. You're not going to tell me that this is how we're going to start counting ourselves in this House. I don't want to, I won't do it at any cost. So I repeat again, I spoke in the first person of the one, and the agenda point is the Council of Ministers' information on the adoption decision. So I'm asking for what's written and what's the point of the agenda, and I'm not talking about half-information, misinformation, media information, that sort of thing, and I don't know what's waiting for you or what. I think I made myself very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21216	Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21217	The mistake is...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21218	Wrong. Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21219	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Marković says – representatives of the entity. Unfortunately, I say I don't know which time in this House that I am from Republika Srpska's entity, so I am also a candidate and came to this Parliament. But I don't agree at all with what you said here today, or the suggestions you made in this request to hold a session, especially when you return communism, so in... requests, that we discuss the Hutts of Honored Religious Heads. It was just a time of communism. I do not accept, therefore, this kind of reasoning to mention in the explanation the Huts and what religious chiefs say in mosques, churches, etc., etc. But I really don't understand anything, I read this Director's Decision, I called on the members of the Law. So, in the text itself, I, therefore, do not understand what is written, only if someone has misused the position and provided you with documents from the Statistics Agency and you, based on this information, are making a request here for an extraordinary session, then the BiH Prosecutor's Office needs and has work to do, so when it comes to this area. I don't really know anything from this decision by the Director of the Statistics Agency is the result when you draw a line as many as there are who and what is in Bosnia and Herzegovina based on this list we had. So, I think someone abused the position and presented the documents or provided information from the Statistics Agency. And this time I want to, the only abuse of position could be that, and certainly not the decision of Director Jukić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21220	Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21221	Mr. Backović, first of all, there's no need for you to shout so much and raise your voice, because obviously no one here will be afraid of all of them, or how you say or what you're saying. First of all, and secondly, just as you were saying in the first person of the one, it is incomprehensible that you have come, that you have received this agenda and call and that you have not prepared yourself for what the session is called for. And you could have prepared yourself as an MP at the very least that you took to read the Census Act. And if you'd read it and it would have been enough for you to be more informed today than I fully believe that you've come so completely unprepared, so, and that maybe you've been listening to media reports, statements one way or another. So that's your problem but you can't impute others that they're not prepared here, that they haven't prepared themselves, that they haven't prepared themselves for this debate. It's your business and your problem. And to you, Mr Ahmetović, it is true that you are selected as an MP from Republika Srpska, but you must know exactly that you are one of the 14 MPs from Republika Srpska. And if the other 13 MPs from Republika Srpska are slow and demand that something be discussed here, then you as one of those 14 cannot dispute it and you have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21222	Correction of the wrong quote Zaim Backović. You can also sit down, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21223	Never mind, I'll get out of respect for this. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21224	So I see you have a back problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21225	No, it's not a problem. It's not lumbago, it's not ishias, it's injury, it's spinal injury, so sometimes this works... and it's over. I really don't know how to react to this kind of discussion or to this kind of replica repeat once again how the agenda point is and I haven't told anyone to think, think and speak like me, I've spoken in and for my own name and I don't understand here is not the subject of the law, but the Information Council of Ministers, I might have been able to inform myself to break into the Council of Ministers and steal this information if it exists. As far as the law goes, he's right here in front of me, ma'am, and I hope that the law and legality will be implemented to the end. I'm talking about a whole other thing here, which is why I don't have that kind of material and I don't want to discuss it based on newspaper inscriptions, half-truths, false truths, truths anymore, I don't know what it all contains in that information. I'm asking you to make sure that I know how to discuss it and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21226	Thank you. We're out of press releases. To inform you that one request is only for the change and addition of the agenda by the SDP MPs, and I will put him on the vote, that there has been no request for the removal of the agenda, therefore it will be adopted. If he had a request, he'd be put to the vote. And after that, we'll agree on a follow-up, when we're done with this item on the agenda, we'll figure out how to proceed with this session. So, I put to the vote the proposal for a new item of the 5th emergency session – Information from the Council of Ministers on the commitments made from the letter of intent for an arrangement with the IMF... Who's in? So 11 for, 24 against, abstention 4. There's no general majority. The proposal hasn't been adopted. So I figure the 5th emergency session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on Decision on the adoption of the Single programme for data processing of the census, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2013, by BiH Statistics Agency Director Velimir Jukić I'm now taking a half-hour break and calling a session of an extended college. I'd like all club representatives to come to Hall 2/II. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21229	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21230	What'd you get? Come on, Mr. Backović...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21231	Because there isn't, there's no business intervention, there's no false allegations, I don't know how I would... Since I asked that, not to me, but to share a stenogram with the MPs, it is simply an incredible rate of reaction of any media and portals, and I ask that portals from Republika Srpska be opened to see how they presented me after what Mrs. Marković was saying. And I want this again because I didn't say what she said, I didn't say it once.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21232	Mr. Backović, you see, there is no...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21233	Please, I am an MP and I ask you to keep the dignity of the MPs. My dignity has been violated.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21234	Well, I know, but we can't argue, we can't discuss what...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21235	We're not going to argue, but I want the gentlemen to come in and fix it, because I didn't say it, I didn't say it for a moment. And I ask you to share this with all MPs and the media – I apologize, given the urgency of the session, etc., I have suggested to you what you have just done. Then, I don't want to, I, I stress again, I don't want to talk about something based on newspaper inscriptions, statements, opinions on television...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21236	Well, you won't be having another discussion with us, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21237	Well, then let me introduce myself like I said. I beg you as chairman, and I keep speaking in the first person of the one. It's been transmitted very ugly, very ugly, and the reactions are very ugly. It's not fair, we have to respect and respect each other here. And I ask you to take this... to the media and share it with all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-05-30-0.u21238	Here, we'll ask the service to share that stenogram with the media present here. I guess this is where it went, from these reporters. So, the College in an extended assembly considered this situation and found that, although the point is called the Council of Ministers' Report that we do not have this report, and unanimously supported proposing to the House the conclusion of the following content: - The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with delivering within 10 days information on the 2013 census regarding the set agenda of the 5th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. It means that if this conclusion were adopted now, we would interrupt the session and continue it when the conditions came to pass. I'm giving the vote. 27 for, against 1, 9 abstentions. There's an entity and there's a general majority. We've adopted a conclusion. This session will continue after receiving information from the Council of Ministers. This concludes today's session. Session completed at 12:25 p.m.
