ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1686	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House and representatives of the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against the Corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of the police structure of BiH and the Council of the National Minorities of BiH and the Agency for Postal Traffic of BiH. But first of all, I would like to inform the delegates that, following the end of this session, the 3rd emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will be held at which the request of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives will be discussed, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, as agreed at the Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was held yesterday. On the final confirmation of this information you will be subsequently informed after we make sure that such a proposal in this procedure has reached our House, so please be available for this session. I'm sure by way of clubs you've been informed of the conditions under which we've come into a situation like this which, again, I must say, is not such that responsibility can be put on the burden of our home. The session is attended by 13 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak order, 5 from the Croatian and 4 from the Serbian people. Delegates Nebojša Radmanović and Fahrudin Radončić are not able to attend this session for justified reasons. For the 18th session, the following Agenda 1 was proposed. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading), Law No 01,02-02-1-26/15, from 17.12.2015 and 28.01.2016; 3. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-37/15, from 28.12.2015 and 16.02.2016; 2 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (first reading) – Proposer: delegate Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1-669/16, of 24.02.2016; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-929/16 of 18.02.2016 and 21.03.2016; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-341/16 of 04.03.2016; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 19.02.2016 and 18.03.2016; 8. Proposal for a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to amend the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-19-1004/16, of 31.03.2016; 9. Report on the Implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement – applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-37-433/16, of 05.02.2016; 10. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2015, issue: 05/7-50-13- 568/16, of 16/02/2016; 11. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-629/16, of 22.02.2016, and Plan of work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2016, issue: 05/1-50-19-630/16, of 22.02.2016; 12. Report on the Commission's work on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2015, issue: 05/8-50-14-485-6/16, of 03.03.2016; 13. Work report and Financial Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2015, issue: 01,02-16-1-771/16, of 09.03.2016; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on cross-border supervision between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-05-2-577/16, dated 17.02.2016; 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China on grant of grants, No: 01,02-05-2-960/16, of 25.03.2016. You've heard this agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Is anyone answering for a word and there are any amendments and additions to this agenda? There are no reports. Given that it's a harmonised agenda for the House of People's Colleges that we're not voting on it, but we're starting to work. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Three reported missing. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We're voting on the 17th session minutes. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present - 12 delegates were for, against no one, he was abstentioned by 1 delegate. From Federation 8 for, against no one, one abstention, from Republika Srpska 4 for, against none, no one abstained. There's a general and entity majority, so I'm guessing the record was adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1689	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, respected colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of Article 115(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I submit an amendment to the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH. In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Service in the Armed Forces of BiH in Article 14(1) relating to Article 101(1) of the basic law behind the two-point interpuncation sign, it is added: "the maximum length of the service of professional military personnel in the Armed Forces". Reason: In the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, which is the mandated proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the processor of the BiH Ministry of Defence has been released a sentence in Article 14 relating to Article 101(1) of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, which I read earlier. As this failure was observed by the BiH Ministry of Defence after the adoption of the Bill of Law in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, having regard to the text contained in the existing Law on Service in the Armed Forces and which remained unchanged, and without which Article 14 of the Law (1) Proposal, or Article 101(1) of this Law, was incomplete, the Ministry of Defence of BiH delivered the act to the National Assembly: 10-02-1896/16, 21.04. of the current year, and when considering and adopting the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH at the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly, to accept their application for a technical correction in this 4 article, and to install the above text in that Article 14 at the time of the Law. A bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1690	Thank you too, Mr. Podžić. Given the course of the session, I owe you an explanation. Mr. Podžić, I have made this a subsequent insight into the document, so the amendment proposed – this amendment proposes as a delegation of the House of Peoples. The time he used was available as the chairman, or rapporteur of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. We'll assume that there's been a misunderstanding in this House that won't be a grudge, so Mr. Podžić's discussion I ask you to understand as his participation in the debate when the time comes, so that he doesn't have to repeat it all again. Are you okay with that, Mr. Podžić?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1691	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1692	Yeah, just because of the procedure your signature is here, it wasn't even on the Commission so we could... Thank you. So, for the zealous respecters of the Rules of Procedure, I had to, I was obliged to give this explanation to avoid harming, uh, the work of today. Okay. Now that the rapporteur's finished, I'm calling on the Proposer of the Law if he wants to take his word for it. Mrs. Pendeš?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1693	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1694	Thank you. Like in the report, okay. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering the word given, therefore, and this proposal as part of the debate, I say, primarily... Mr. Podžić. Is there a request for participation in the discussion? There are no reports, so I'm closing the hearing. Since we closed the debate, we are now moving to a statement on the amendment of delegate Sifet Podžić. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, 2 were against, abstaining was none. From the Federation of BiH 9 for, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska 2 for, 2 against. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that this amendment has been adopted, and with one additional piece of information that we have given consent at the previous session of the College as a College for this type of intervention in today's session, given that it is an extraordinary circumstance in this amendment. We are now moving on to a statement on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH in the second reading. 5 Run a statement. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present - 11 delegates were for, against two delegates, abstained was no delegate. From the Federation of BiH 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska 2 to, 2 against, no one abstained. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH in a second reading. At the same time, I find that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and that is why we need to form a Joint Commission to bring the text of this Law into line. I now call on the club heads to make their proposals when it comes to the composition of this Commission. The first word came from an esteemed colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1695	From the Bosniak Club, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1696	Podzic. Thank you. The next word is taken by an esteemed colleague, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1697	Thank you very much. There's a Croatian Club in Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1698	Thank you. I call for word from the head of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates or someone from the club. Here you go. Mr. Nović has a word. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1699	On behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I propose Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1700	Thank you. Are there any different suggestions? No, I'm guessing. We are moving to a statement on the composition of the Commission. Run the plea, please. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates voted in favour, no one was against or abstention. From the Federation of BiH 9 for, from Republika Srpska 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have appointed Mr. Sifet Podžić, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas and Mr. Dark Babalj as members of the Joint Commission for Harmonization of the Text of the Law of the House of Nations. 6 We move to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH Since it is a second reading we are having a debate on amendments and we are voting on the bill's proposal. You have received the Joint Security Commission's report on BiH. The Commission accepted the text of the draft law and concluded that no amendments had been tabled. At its 27th session, held on 05.04.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Law in a second reading. I give the word to Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if it pleases. It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the bill promoter if he wants to. As in the law. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Fines of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, against two delegates who were abstaining, there was no one. From the Federation of BiH 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska 2 to, 2 against, no one abstained. Given that there is a general and entityal majority, I find that the Bill on Supplements to the Law on Decouplings of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading in the same text as in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're going to work on the fourth point now, that's it, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act (first reading) – Proposer: delegate Mario KaramatiKaramatić
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1703	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1704	It's like the report. Thank you. I give my word to the legislator, Mr. Mario Karamatić, if he wishes. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've seen this Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, we haven't received a reasoned opinion from the Constitutional Commission. We have here the Opinion of the Legislative Sector which clearly states that Article 95(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Bill must contain the constitutional basis, the reasons for the adoption of the law, the principles on which the bill is based, the assessment of the financial resources necessary for implementation, and the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration on compliance with the EU's legally binding standards. The Opinion of the Legislative Sector also states that this proposal contains constitutional basis, reasons for adoption, principles on which the bill was based, an assessment of the financial resources for the implementation of the Law, as well as some opinions that are not mandatory, while the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration has arrived, which says more than clearly that keeping and breeding animals for fur production is not prohibited in the EU. So, in order for me, personally, to have this negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission to come about because of a shocking fact, because if we adopt these amendments to the Law, believe it or not, we would have to do a job that we are more than well paid for, that is. adopt legal acts in which these animals can be kept. Here, I would ask my fellow envoys to vote on the Commission's negative opinion and return it to the Constitutional Legal Commission for a re-determination of compliance with the Constitution of this bill. Because, if he can already be asked for any flaw, it certainly is not in line with the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1706	Thank you, Mr. Mario Karamatić, for taking advantage of your time as a... promoter. I'm opening a debate now. Who's answering for a word? An esteemed colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac, has signed up. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1707	I thank the chairman. Now, in the capacity of delegates and also a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I think that some questions about this Law need to be further clarified. According to our Law, in force, in the Animal Protection Act, animal welfare states that it is prohibited to keep animals, or to grow for the purposes of fur production, and Article 43 states that a provision prohibiting the production of animals for the purpose of 8 fur production will enter into force in 2018. So, we currently have the possibility and legal permission to keep animals for fur and breed animals for fur, and in 2018, the ban is in force. Of course, when considering this issue, there must be a series of both economic and ethical principles because a significant number of families live on this business, it is undeniable. That's one side. The other side is, right now it's just like I quoted in the law. And the third question is the issue of practices in the region and in the European countries. Similar practice is in Croatia and Serbia, where there is also a ban in 2017 and 2018, a certain transitional period has been left with us. It is also banned in Macedonia with a certain transitional period, etc., etc. In Europe, there are a large number of countries that are authorised to keep animals for fur. However, what we had in mind during the examination of this Law and we should have taken into account is all that follows the Law, including the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. In the opinion of the Directorate, it states that the keeping and breeding of animals for the production of fur is not explicitly prohibited from the point of view of binding EU standards and rights, but Member States must respect and implement all regulations, directives, decisions and other EU rules relating to the protection of animal health and well-being on the farm, during transport, during the death, the conduct of experiments, in relation to the prohibition, puts on the market or imports alike, etc. And it draws attention to the fact that by erasing the prohibition of animal breeding in order to produce fur in the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act, this issue should remain unsettled, so this should pay particular attention, taking into account all these moments I've been talking about. I personally had a dilemma next – whether to delete this regulation until '18. For years, we have passed all the regulations that involve the implications of eradicating such a provision or to prepare the necessary, transposition of European legislation and binding norms in our legislation, and then when we make the basis and prepare such a transposition to delete the regulation. Uh, it's a dilemma, it's just a question of whether on this side or on the other side... There is no dispute for me that we should also have our producers, because of this significant number of people and lives, to enable them to have the possibility of such a business and to realize their existence. For me it has no dilemma... business, however it is a matter of this approach. It seems to me that it overcomes the opinion, because of some manufacturer's security and their perspective and their investment and production plans, that they are interested in abolishing this regulation as soon as possible, so that competent institutions bring a proper legal norm, which also has a resonance, or another approach. I, uh, as far as I'm concerned, don't think it would be a bad idea for this to go back to the Constitutional Commission once again and to consider these aspects and perhaps with some binding conclusions to follow the abolition of this provision, first of all for reasons for those who have intentions and plans for this business, to have the elements for appropriate planning. To conclude, it is not disputed to allow those who have invested and who will invest in this business to have this business in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because that is the case throughout Europe, the question is how to ensure that such a business exists in line with the binding still European law standards that will welcome us, if not for a year, then in 2018, surely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1708	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Dear colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Rodić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1709	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow members of the House of Peoples, respected members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Since we on the Constitutional Legal Commission have been comprehensively considering this Bill proposal, and as far as I'm concerned, I appreciate the efforts of the distinguished delegate Karamatić to arrange this area and to enable people, above all, to deal with the work, to reach a certain type of employment and to encourage certain business activities that cloud the chances of success. However, I want to explain my position when I was on the Constitutional Commission against this for the next reason. This area is governed by two laws. One law is at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as far as I know, this law does not exist in the Federation of BiH, and is directly applied to, this, meaning, the Federation Animal Wellbeing Act, the Law, means the welfare of Bosnia and Herzegovina's animals, while in Republika Srpska there is the Animal Wellbeing Act, which comprehensively regulates this matter. And what was my dilemma is that today we pass this law of what happens in its implementation. I don't think there have been any comprehensive consultations here on how this is meant to come up with a specific legal solution that will treat this unique matter, meaning, across the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, that was the reason, and I mean, I don't know, if today the House is going to state whether it will bring it back to the Constitutional Commission, but if that happens, I suggest that there be some kind of co-operation, let's see how we can solve this issue. And when we get rid of it, half of Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't solve it one way and the other half the other way. Here, that was why I've been in parts this whole time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1710	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. There are no further applications for participation in the debate, so I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with all the consequences of the vote you are familiar with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I invite you to make a statement. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there was no one, there were two delegates, and 5 delegates were detained. From the Federation of BiH for no one, against the 6, abstention 3, from Republika Srpska no one for, against 2, abstention 2. Given that there is no general majority, I find that the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not been adopted, and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 104(3), returns to the Commission for a re-determination, i.e. in the full production of a new opinion, taking into account the debate held at the House session and within the time limit set by the House. As far as the deadline is concerned, I think these regular deadlines are enough, so we won't particularly plead. Moving to point five, 10 Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, and first, a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the Opinion of the legislative sector of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has established that the draft law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House and the Unique Legal Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations has accepted the principles of the bill. At the 27th session, held on 05.04.2016, the representative's home adopted in the first reading of the bill. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Halid Genjac, if he wishes. It's like the report. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he wishes. It's like the law. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure in First Reading. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present - 12 delegates were for, against no one, he was abstentioned by 1 delegate. From the Federation of BiH 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska 3 for, against none, abstention 1. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Administrative Procedure Act were adopted in the first reading. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1713	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable delegates. Here, despite the reports given by the authorities of this House, I would like to point out that this is a very important, changes and additions to a very important law that practically represents one, on the basis of which one significant assessment of respect for human rights is given in Bosnia and Herzegovina by European bodies. And for this reason, we continued to carry out a broad consultation with representatives of the European Commission who also participated in the preparation of amendments and additions to this Law. So we can really say that this Law contains compliance with the five European directives relating to the prohibition of discrimination on different grounds. And according to the European Integration Directorate, this Law has a high level of compliance with the European Aki. I think it is very important to note that through this Law of Discrimination we have more precisely defined than it has ever been before, so that we have improved certain and terms relating to the prohibition of discrimination and... everything that has so far been made not clear enough in the application of this Law. What is very important, and I want to point out, is that the burden of proving disrespect or violation of the right to discrimination or the right to equal treatment is now being passed on to the defendant here, so that this procedure is entirely now on the side of the victim, looking at those who suffer discrimination, eased, and the jurisdiction of the courts that have not been involved so far, except for the courts of local jurisdiction. It is now up to the courts in the place where the prosecutor, or victim of discrimination, is responsible for resolving the law’s rights in breach of this law, and we have practically facilitated the discrimination procedure ourselves. The deadlines are also extended, and... as I said, relieved. What I want to draw attention to to the esteemed House, which I would like to draw attention to is that, after agreeing to this text and precisely, and one passing through all the amendments and additions of these provisions, the European Commission has delivered, through our Ministry, several adjustments, which I will ask the representatives of this House or the competent commission to accept as amendments, because they are practically, in this second reading, because they are practically related to improving more text, further improving the text of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1714	I would like to thank the Honorable Madam Minister. Word is, after an open debate, dear colleague Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1715	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 12 Well, I am convinced that, as far as these laws on human rights are concerned, gender equality, prohibitions of discrimination, we may have the most regulated laws in Europe probably, in the world too, because every little one of them falls there from the international community to call us and say, "We should do that and you should do that, and then we run to adopt that." For this Law, opinions have come, a lot of this paper has been spent while this is printed on all of us, and one of the most important provisions that is changing, I will support the Law of course, I am against any form of discrimination, so it's not at all controversial, but what gets into my eyes how fast we go towards this modern society. In Article 4 of other forms of discrimination, points 2. so far, the legislative regulation has stated that sexual harassment is any form of verbal,..., physical, psychological and any other harassment, and is now being ‘sexfully’ deleted and put on ‘sexual’. The reason for that can only be one. We as a traditional one midterm assumption was if there was any harassment in a sexual type that it was about people of different sex, but here, according to this new legal solution, we see that the director can harass the employee, that the director can sexually harass the employee. And here, I can't say that I'm thrilled that we need these legal solutions so that there's no confusion about what sexual harassment is, and what sexual harassment, of course I condemn both of them, I'm going to say I'm going to support these amendments to the law anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1716	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. A dear colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac, came forward for his word. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1717	I thank the chairman. So, before us is also an important law and needs a law and I would say a concrete law based on further conclusions from the Sixth Meeting of the Interim Stabilisation Committee, which was held in July as early as '13. in the years since this need exists and the indication that this must be introduced into some proportion and some relationship with directives, primarily those guaranteeing equal treatment, regardless of racial and ethnic origin, so by a directive that prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of faith, beliefs, etc. and the Directive on the implementation of the principles of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in the field of employment. So it's our obligation and it's done in one correct way. I just, first of all, uh, one technical question, it seems to me that we're going to have to clarify on further work and the Constitutional Commission. In this document called – Final consideration of the EU Delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, something is not technically right, as it is said about interventions in members and attitudes in the Law that are not or are thought to be, namely, said in the 16th position of the Law proposal it is necessary to give meaning to the term "integrator", and let's say the Law has, there is no 16th member. It's technical somewhere, so we're gonna have to. Then in all these calls for members and attitudes that I can't find, uh, it's probably in, and even if the basic text of thought we have a problem again, but it'll need to be clarified on the Constitutional Commission. I support, therefore, the principles of the law by this, this recommendation of the EU Delegation, of course, should have both feelings and have them in mind, and we will technically settle it by the session. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1718	Thank you, too, Mr. Genjac. Ministarka Borovac, come in. Go ahead, you'll have to use the microphone. I apologize when you took your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1719	I apologize, and I said when we delivered the text to the parliamentary procedure, the European Commission delivered this memo, but they responded to this consolidated text in which the amendments were incorporated and then it was a member of the 16 that spoke, yes, which was also delivered here to parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1720	I thank Mrs. Borovac. For the sake of other delegates and MPs, let me inform you with one view about this issue opened by Mr. Genjac and it's technically and technically a question, so I won't take your word for it. So, we have otherwise concluded that the provision of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the obligation to provide a consolidated text, together with the proposal and the provisions referred to in the amendments to the laws themselves, creates misunderstandings. Because according to our Rules of Procedure, it is very clear what the official consolidated text is and what is, therefore, the consolidated text itself, everything else cannot be purified in this way, so that the observations and the legislative sector are addressed, as well as all the proposals are given to the knowledge in that form and procedure in which it is possible, as it comes in turn, that, in a way, they mark these documents so that no such misunderstandings as were the subject of here your conversation. Are there any more reported for discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the discussion. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in First Reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 11 delegates, no one against them, two delegates were detained. From Federation 9 for, against no one, abstentioned no one, from Republika Srpska 2 for, against none, abstention 2. Given that there is both a general and an entity majority, I find that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was adopted in the first reading. We're now going to work on item seven of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-609/16, from 19.02.2016 and 18.03.2016. This is the first reading of the proposal, Law Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, and first, a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the Opinion of the legislative sector of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of 14 peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has found that the bill does not fully comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which is in line with the Single Legal Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, the College of the People's House sent a letter to the Proposer and the Opinion of the Legislative Regulation for corrections detected in the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on litigation before the Court of Justice of BiH. On 18.03.2016, the Proposer submitted a new text of the bill. The Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the draft law at its 27th session, held on 05.04.2016. I now give the word to the rapporteur on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, if he wishes. He doesn't want to, like in the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, if he wishes. It's like an explanation. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1722	So, here it is important to note that we at the House of Peoples at the 2nd session discussed the report on the audit of the impact on the subject – Issues for litigation. And we have reached a conclusion, quite justifiable and necessary conclusion, requiring the competent institutions to notify this House, within the time limit left, of the activities undertaken. One of these activities, I think, is very important and I would say could be very productive, the Council of Ministers has approached the creation of a law which will, among other things, be seen and most significant as a problem seen in this audit, be established to remove the amendments to the law, including the Law on a litigation procedure. The aim of this Law is, therefore, to remove the vulnerabilities to which judicial proceedings are indicated and which should lead to a reduction in and a reduction in the number of court disputes, but also a reduction in the amount of expenditure related to these disputes which are not insignificant to the budget. The Law itself and the aim of the Law, therefore very justified, very necessary, I think the principles are well, well measured, so I support the principles of the Law and the need to adopt such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1723	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. There are no further applications for participation in this agenda debate, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on a litigation procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present – 6 delegates were in favour, 2 were against, 4 were abstained. From Federation 6 for, against no one, abstention 2, from Republika Srpska no one for, against 2, abstention 2. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority, so it requires consultations in the College itself. 15 [[/consultations of the College.]] My colleagues and I share the view that we will declare a possible agreement or disagreement until the next one, more specifically not until later than later, because the next one I hope is after this session. Now we interrupt work in this place and go to work at point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to amend the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-19-1004/16, from 31.03.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1726	Thank you. Since it is an extremely important law and it is always a matter and attention to amendments to the Election Law, public attention is rightly directed, it is a significant act. I think it is necessary to consider this report a few oral notes, first of all to clarify. Therefore, the Interresor Group has worked on two laws, amendments to the Election Law and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties. When it comes to the Election Law, some 36 amendments, i.e. amendments and additions to the Election Law, have been agreed. I would like to say large political issues, such as the implementation of the verdict in the case of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac and in the case of Zornić and such as the city of Mostar, mean especially, of course, the existence of political agreement on these issues of key political players before considering the Interresor Group. Such consent has not yet been and it is too ambitious to expect the Interresor Group to resolve these issues. However, the interresorni group, as I said, agreed some 36 amendments to the Electoral Law. It is, above all, about improving technical aspects of the preparation and implementation of elections that will enable or facilitate the Election Commission to make their instructions more precise, its sublegal acts and will contribute safely to the integrity of the electoral process. This, among other things, is about certain issues of incompatibility of functions, about election committees, about the treatment of conflicts of interest, about the number of signatures needed for political entities, which in some ways is tightened, etc., etc. In the debate, of course, the issue of less gender representation on candidate lists and the question of censorship for movement within the list is open. It is known that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a pretty high standard that treats the less represented gender issue, where, as you know, among the first two, the first candidates must be less represented, and then among the first five two, among the first eight, so among the first two, one, and then each of the next three by one. It is a pretty high standard and it contains a combination of principles that are present, one of these principles in practices from countries in the region or countries in Europe. It was considered that, ultimately, the Commission voted to provide at least one less gender represented among the first three candidates, and as regards the compensation lists, to leave the current principle among the first two, among the first five, among the first eight, etc. Later on, the debate at the House of Representatives, I would say, in some ways also in the public, and the conclusion reached at the House of Representatives, shows that the majority is to leave an existing solution to the less-represented sex. And that's the majority that needs to be respected simply, at least as far as the House of Representatives is concerned, the House of Peoples has its position. And that's not some big problem. As for the census to move within the list, so far it took 5% of the votes won by the party to move within the list, progress, etc., down or up. For reasons discussed in the Interresor Group, it was proposed to increase the number to 30% for both state and entity, and cantonal levels, respectively, and to 15% for the general population. And here, after certain tests in the public, within political entities, and even at the House of Representatives, the debate that has been led, the majority commitment is to make it 20% for the state, entity, cantonal level, and 10% for the municipal level, which may also be some measure at this point to increase that percentage, but 'cause some too much increase, in some way, leads, and whatever the higher percentage, is more closing the list. So these are some of the moments that it has in its entirety. I think this law would be very important with these changes, with certain adjustments, but it would be important to adopt it at both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples today, primarily because of these technical aspects, because of the effort and the work that has been put into this. And finally, when it comes to the Law on the financing of political parties and the amendments that are agreed on, it is about the recommendations of GRECO that are very important to us, which, of course, carry with them and binding character, because it is threatened with sanctions. And with these amendments, about five or six of the GRECO recommendations have been implemented and I think that as far as the Law on the financing of political parties is concerned, a rather significant job has been done. So the report reflects this situation and this debate, this conversation, which was conducted on the Interresor Group, and I think that the job could have been bigger, but, I say, a more significant job on the Interresor Group, is a prerequisite for political reconciliation among political parties, parliamentary parties, above all, the leadership of these parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1727	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1728	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a warm welcome to all of you. So here, in the report itself, and what we have heard from Mr Genjac, who has further informed us about the activities of the Interresor Working Group, it is indisputable, therefore, that it is the most important law in every country, and also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the first law after the Constitution and certainly 17, therefore, that it is good to refer to this report and see what has been done. And I would, here, ask a question to all of us here – what were the objectives that the Interresor Working Group should achieve with this mandate that it received from both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly when it comes to changing electoral legislation. So we can then answer whether this report did and proposed what was in line with the expected and designed objectives. And with all due respect to respected colleagues, members of the Working Group and one and the other home, the Electoral Commission, I must say that these fundamental objectives have not been achieved very closely. And now I'm going to set some of those goals. So, harmonising electoral legislation with the European Court of Human Rights' demands in Strasbourg as a strategic European priority for this country, we have heard, not that it is not done, but objectively it is not attempted to be done, because the ball is constantly transferred to the political leaders and activities that should be done previously in order to prepare the field and send for the Interresor Working Group. ...has passed one term, the one of four years, so here we see the second term goes. And I think that the issue of political responsibility should be clearly situationed, uh, let's see, that we don't all share the same responsibility, because when an Interresor Working Group was formed, I was also warning that its composition should be expanded, which spreads the party composition. And to remind us all together, so, while members of the commission are respected colleagues from the SDA, HDZ, SNSD, so one opposition party at Bosnia and Herzegovina's level is represented, one is represented, and the House of Peoples Halid Genjac, Bariša Čolak and Ognjen Tadić, respected members of the HDZ of BiH, the SDA and the SDS, are actually members of the parliamentary majority at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have, therefore, another situation here to show once again that parliamentary majority are not objectively formed on programme priorities, but in the division of interest and power, and we will see later on about the electoral law, which is currently under review, there are five of them in the House of Representatives regarding the amendment of the Election Law, that this argument that I am here is even fat, fat, strengthened. And the third thing, so I'm personally willing to support all of these changes, because they're certainly properly done, it's not controversial, and I need to say it because of objectivity, but they're absolutely insufficient for these goals. And we've been brought to teat, so an election appointment, to hold local elections should come next week. How we can objectively react to one, and to one change proposal, they are all required to adopt by haste procedure, to which homes are reduced only as a flow water heater should, that this was done. So, I think that we all need to have insight into, and one more thing, I don't know why, and I respect that, it's an Interresor Working Group decision, so for the chairman and vice president of this Interresor Working Group, people from the Central Election Commission have been elected exclusively. For the sake of respect for them, I don't even bring integrity, nor... I think this is a matter of amending the law, the first responsibility of parliamentarians and us here, and then only the Central Election Commission, and that there should have been one kind of, if nothing balance, to run this whole process. So let me just warn you of some things that are objectively not solved, even those that, conditionally speaking, are technical character, and here we have heard from Mr. Genjac, I absolutely agree that these changes are less than 99% of the technical character, which are welcome once again to say and do not challenge them. So, the issue of election committees and agencies under fire, and the civil sector, and the public, and everyone said it was the cancer of the wounds, i.e. the weakest point in the electoral verticals. Is something done in a new, more quality, unprofessional, more independent way of selecting members of the election boards. Absolutely not, except in principle it's said that there should be certain professional training and gender representation, which is fine, but that doesn't solve where we have a problem at all. And my dear gentlemen, we know what the problem is, the problem is the demotivation of the electoral body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is in continuity so that voters are demoted and gone, and of course some here correspond to the status quo, and we see what 18 is in this country. ...then political responsibility for that kind of quo status should also be taken over. That's one dimension. The second dimension is, so how to count, count votes. We are aware that Bosnia and Herzegovina in the previous general elections had a record in the world-wide invalid ballots, and this trend, not to decline, but to increase. So here there were very transparent and very responsible, very rational proposals for the introduction of an electronic vote, for the introduction of the use of the CIPS and the method, because our CIPS may be the most modern in Europe, and with the German way with the index finger we can do anything, we are recorded, to prevent any kind of manipulation. These are things that would restore trust in the electoral process, motivate people, and then whom people to trust in every honor and respect. So these are some of the elements. Another thing to say is that the electoral units where the Electoral Law provides that... every election cycle is to consider the criteria for the possibility of redesigning election units here at all are not mentioned, and we see how many things are here that are slightly open. Then, Sejdić-Sejdić-Finac's verdict, so two years have passed, we have had these certain solutions that could have been considered on..., and the proposals that were officially referred to in the Parliamentary Assembly. Without any negative selection, all these proposals should have been considered and some kind of option should have come before us. As well as City Mostar, we had suggestions, we had suggestions, we had changes. There are none of these solutions here, now we are in a situation, therefore, that we do not really have a consensus, nor agreement on one of the most significant political issues in this country, means resolving the Constitutional Court's decision on equal voting rights in Mostar, without saying how many elections have not been held, and that this danger exists today. So with all due respect to the respected MPs, the members of the Interresor Working Group on what has been done, it is absolutely not slow, surely it has been a valuable effort, 14 sessions of 15 scheduled, surely these are solutions that can contribute to a particular one, but I will repeat once again, only to the technical dimension of the Electoral Law, that fundamental political one I must say that it is not absolutely even touched through this paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1729	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1730	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I won't repeat what Mr. Genjac and Raguž said, but I need to say a few words about this report, and that first thing I'm going to say is that the story repeats itself. This is not the first time in Parliament for the Interresor Working Group to do one part of the job, to get to the House of Peoples and I sincerely hope that we will take a step today in relation to the earlier period. This may be one of the laws that has suffered the most changes since its adoption, and as we can see, we still haven't solved a lot yet, nor have we regulated it. Of course, this law depends on the rule of law in one state and democracy, and therefore we need to pursue the highest standards in this area. Of course, we have to go and what this House of People's assembly was doing, we later, so in 2014, after the General Elections ended we had a report on the General Elections held at this House and we adopted certain conclusions that defined all the shortcomings of the electoral process that happened to us in 2014. So the Interresorial Work 19 group had perhaps two acts in front of it that it could analyse and interpret and achieve a certain kind of consent and propose it in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Of course, if you look at the extent to which it has been done, you can see that large political issues remain open. And what I've realized before, and now that there is not enough political will here to solve those crucial issues and ultimately to come up with a comprehensive electoral law that would contain everything we've achieved so far and write a new page of history in these spaces. Of course, I am absolutely when I was as someone who was not a member of this Commission, and was a member of the previous interresor working group, if I analyse and comparatively look at it, I see that a degree of consent has been reached which was also in the previous period and there are improvements in certain, certain technical solutions. For this reason, I do not know in what form and whether what we have today's announced emergency session will contain only what is in this material, meaning what the report of this Commission that has been working on these amendments to the Law, we will see. They are acceptable, but they are far from solving those big issues that we need for further, further improvement, means democratic processes and the rule of law, and to achieve a really great standard when it comes to the electoral cycle, because we have all defined, I did not happen to mention the latest report on the 2014 elections, where, with all those reports of the Central Election Commission, which we are adopting here and we recognize negative phenomena, I think it was not sufficiently done to warn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1731	Thank you. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1732	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a small step for humanity, but obviously big for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'm terribly glad that we've managed to at least make technical changes to each other. And I agree with everything the previous speakers and Mr. Genjac said, and Raguž, and the distinguished Mr. Rodić said. I would ask us all one question, we all already know enough about the Electoral Law – which is why we cannot agree, we all know that we have some very difficult questions that we have to resolve, which is why we cannot agree on the Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci ruling that we will implement it as we agree in a moment that no problem is rather than sexual harassment to stand sexually. Why can't we agree on a way to choose for the House of Nations, which is why we can't agree on Mostar? Now I will return to that international community that told us that it is no longer sexual harassment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but sexual. They also told us what election law should be like in Mostar. We have a couple of lawyers, people read books, finished school, someone reported it to the Constitutional Court. The court read it, he says -- this is a matter of common sense, this is not in line with the BiH Constitution, it is not in accordance with the law, it is about discrimination, here we mention discrimination again, about the unequal value of the vote. And then our mentality here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, instead of joining technical changes, would allow Mostar to choose his City Council, so after that accession to the amendments to the Statute, if necessary, we would now suddenly change both the Constitution and the Statute of the City of Mostar, and would change everything except the Election Law. Even this Electoral Law would be changed in a way, so that it is unconstitutional more or less according to all the proposals that have gone away. So let's not do that. 20 This will pass today, I really support the work of the Interresor group, I know that there have been difficult moments, and a lot of consent, and here, I really thank all the colleagues who participated in the work and patience and trying to get to such a shift, to make certain things, to move. Unfortunately, here we come to teat, next Wednesday we should call elections, we have five, six, seven points at the House of Representatives today, so that's where the Electoral Law is being treated, instead of dealing with it in the first year of office. And here comes the election campaign, how in the next half year we're going to agree on anything, because now it's about who's the traitor of the national interest, who sold himself to this one, who sold himself to that one. So realistically there sometime until October, until October 10th, until the CEC confirms the results of the local elections, we are less finished with a serious story about amendments to the Election Law, except for the purpose of attacking each other. Of course, we won't be able to do it when the campaign starts, so we'll do it properly. And here, I would ask you, as my colleagues, that immediately half a tenth month we re-determin an inter-resor working group or that we are here in this House, because here are quite serious people, more or less from all parties who decide today about the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to shut ourselves up here if it takes 10 days, 10 days not to go out until we find a solution to all these difficult issues that bother us. It's not just the Electoral Law, there's still questions that I'm not picking them up right now, but once we have to start working on them. This country, this country is very beautiful and we all love it, each in our own way, so let's take it in some positive direction, try to make it possible for people to stay living in this country, not to base them on how to get to some visa or some passport, or find somewhere in the West, work. There are jobs and here, it can be preserved, here we were just talking about one way, but in the end we have to sit down. So it's not gonna happen that someone on the side is telling us this is a great solution for you, and you need that. That whenever it happened to us we only got into worse problems. We have to make a deal between ourselves, and then it's gonna be the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1733	Mr. Ognjen Tadić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues. So, with the need of someone who's got your trust to be in the Interresor Working Group, I'm going out for this pay phone in order to say in the shortest possible terms how I saw this job and how I see its results today. I think that we have had four tasks actually, two major political tasks, very hot political topics such as the City of Mostar issue, i.e. to allow the holding of elections in Mostar City and the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, i.e. decisions in the case of Sejdic-Finci. Let me tell you right now, during the work of our Interresor Working Group, not a single letter has officially come to us from any members of the Interresor Working Group, not from any political party, not from any club, not from the Council of Ministers, not from us as representatives of this Interresor Working Group, any level of government, including the Electoral Commission, who has a very strong opinion on the City of Mostar, perhaps because of its composition, more precisely the composition of its representatives in this Interresor Working Group. So, it's hard to even talk about what ours are, what our results are on that plan when we haven't done it at all. And the fact that we haven't dealt with it is maybe the reason we have a House of Representatives in the process today, it seems to me, three laws that solve the city of Mostar right now. So one was proposed by the DF and SDP together, one SDA and SBB together and the third HDZ, 21 probably with one of their political allies. So, I wish we had the opportunity to deal with it, maybe we'd take a step knowing members of the Interresor Working Group and their ability to communicate with each other, as well as agreeing attitudes. But I can't tell us a higher policy, because we, as Parliamentarians, ministers and members of the Electoral Commission, are quite responsible, not to say high on politics, some broader context has not given us the opportunity to discuss it at all, these things, and let's even agree on all these issues. The issue that is related to Sejdic-Finci, we even, here today, perhaps because of a timing that is not ahead of the general elections, is about local elections, we don't even have any particular proposals to address the issue at all compared to the Interresor Working Group Report and the proposal it makes. So it is not even treated in the public sphere at all, let alone in the work of the Interresor Working Group. So two questions remained, two tasks were priority when this topic was on the table. One is the urge to take the electoral process seriously, to make it more responsible, to make it less susceptible to different falsifications and abuses, and another question is technical character. So, this technical character, to absorb immediately, not now, is what I think solved in the previous session of the Parliamentary Assembly, because we had more or less the same amendments and additions in front of us and adopted them. Mr Rodić, it seems to me, was then a member of a committee like this, it did not pass, there was no majority, and now we will see if he will be present at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of Major Support for that kind of proposal. But what really hurts me, and what I'm going to devote the rest of this discussion to, is this third task that, let me say, was somehow my top priority, priority, given what I've known about the election process for the past 26 years and continuously participating in it in every way possible. So I realized this task so that we should return responsibility and a significant political role to political parties. So, not the leaders of political parties, not the elected representatives, not some people from the aura of political parties, whether mental, whether financial, ideological, like this, but just political parties like the living organisms of our political system, our democratic life. We have made some preliminary arrangements and we have seen some outlines, some outlines of the possibility to do so, so we have said we will close the lists, at the same time contribute to the participation of women in parliament, we have told the mandates belong to political parties, meaning the possibility of various freaks, we have said that we will increase the censorship in order not to open each party as an independent trade shop, but that indeed for the existence of a serious political party that pleads to be parliamentary must have essential conditions, and that censorship in itself means, here you see in Serbia, or even if it points to some serious coalitions. And the third thing we talked about was to bring life back to the parties per rhythm that political parties can bear, which was a merger of choices of general and local to avoid the possibility of a permanent electoral process, which practically in a very difficult situation and economically and politically, rather than forcing them to solve the problem, makes them constantly repeat their views that are often or most often opposed to all other political parties, especially when they are national and thus contribute more to the crisis than to its resolution, all to maintain authenticity and find some continuity or success in the election result. Now here we have completely failed, there are no results, although we, I say, on a technical plan marked four, five questions, here I have four listed, which would contribute to political parties being more serious than they are, to have more responsibility, to have more rights than those who are members or who get a mandate on their lists, we have done nothing, nothing. And in that sense, if there are responsibilities of some of the members of the Interresor Working Group there. So that's where we had the chance to do it, we didn't do it. There's no charge now, because none of the members said it was against it that way. Some fences were created in public to resolve these issues, so one said – 22 you are returning the electoral system to the past if the mandate belongs to a party or if the lists are closed, so it is compared to Belarus, is that right Halide, there is only more in Belarus. So, if the mandate, I don't know, belongs to a party, you're bringing us back to the past that whoever's chosen has no right to decide, etc., etc., etc. So it's said about the censorship... let's be some kind of devastation, that not all parties are particularly national in the same situation in both entities, so that it can affect whether any party has its own representatives at all, and hence national representatives in some entity in some way that, let me say in the focus of those who vote, etc., etc. We have found a lot of reasons not to solve what was probably to be solved, which is probably the biggest failure of our mandate, I speak to the Interressor Working Group, being bigger when the mandate is, of course, talking about this parliamentary assembly's mandate now. What do we have for ourselves now? We now have a situation in front of us that we will probably as the House of Peoples, and I am exhausting a little discussion that would come later at the next session if it were, we will deny ourselves some big steps, so I can't say we're denying them, we're where we are. Why does that have to be supported? So it should be because it really is to solve some of the technical issues that need to be addressed and these are the problems that we all agree on. By adopting this Report, we also practically confirm the conclusions and recommendations that come from the Interresor Working Group, which concern that the Interresor Working Group proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to adopt the Interresor Working Group's report and to support... the amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law and the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. The Interresor Working Group proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to extend its mandate to the Interresor Working Group to continue working on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral legislation, with a view to finding a solution until the 2018 general elections are prepared. And three, the Interresor Working Group proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that, following the adoption of amendments and additions to the Election Law, and given that it will be its 20th amendments and additions, i.e...., the powers of the constitutional commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses to prepare the proposal for a consolidated text of the BiH Election Law in accordance with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I read faster because you all have it. So, if we are all already unhappy with the results, and obviously we are, then let the debate on this report and about the Law itself make some kind of wind in the back to do so in the rest of the term. And I am also sure from what Mr. Čolak and Mr. Genjac did, and how I worked together with them, or how you want, that we have realistic conditions to fix this situation, of course, if the House of Representatives comes to the same conclusions that we come to here today when it comes to the need to correct this electoral process and the observed abuses so far solve whether they concern the character of the political system or the election process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1735	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1736	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the Council of Ministers. 23 Ma, I agree with most of the discussion, we did what we did, we didn't do what was supposed to be done, but we have to admit that at this point it was our range. We're all there from some political parties, no one bothered us to do more, but we've been working on the Interresor Working Group in a way that neither of these 36 amendments, or I don't know how many of this other law. So, I think about amending and supplementing the Election Law or the Law on the financing of political parties has not been adopted and indeed not each of the Interresor Working Group members has been made clear, so there was a full consensus. Well, anyway, we had what we had in the House of Representatives, and so be it, and we'll accept that, so we'll get at least what kind of a step we need right now. And I think the biggest problem, for me at least, is why we haven't considered election issues in Mostar City. It's true that the talks were held parallelly, so also at the biggest party peaks, but also at the local level, and some were, and it's good that they were being held, but I think we should have absolutely talked about it. Obviously, however, some direction was expected and how the attitudes would get closer. This did not occur, or rather, that came into the final stage when some of the outlines began, at least to see signs that the question could still be resolved in a positive way. But we should also keep in mind, and we must be aware that all of us are full of Sejdic-Finci's implementation of the European Court's ruling in Strasbourg, but you must know that this is the first issue of the BiH Constitution. The election law cannot be amended in this regard before the BiH Constitution changes. And it must be clear to all of us here and that was clear to us on the Interresor Working Group. So these are issues that, above all, have been settled by our Constitution and the BiH Presidency and the BiH House of Peoples. Of course there's a need to intervene in the Electoral Law, but some rules need to be known. Why is our limit now to the Mostar Constitution of the Federation? Well, because the mass of provisions, therefore, is about the City of Mostar in the Constitution of the Federation and we cannot go beyond that. All in all, I would especially agree with this last one, the last thing President Tadić said, let's see what we can do in the future, is now what it is. We need to see what the House of Representatives is going to do today and see what's actually possible here in the rest of the day or in these few days what we can do, and we've done as much as we've done. We all wish we could have done more, but simply the degree of consensus that we could have come to in this Interresor Working Group was that and it just couldn't anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1737	Thank you, Mr. Čolak. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1738	Thank you. This is, in a way, the second discussion, I apologize, but maybe just two, three things, maybe a little more precision. So, at the beginning of the Interresor Group, we, I think, agreed to implement the Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci ruling in the electoral legislation and the Constitution after the municipal elections, and to now focus our work on amending the Law on municipal elections, and that was our agreement. In this, of course, Mostar is a significant place, because the city elections in Mostar are understood. 24 The other thing we need to know is, we've been involved in these inter-resor groups and we know, but maybe more of an additional adjustment, that's where it's decided by consensus. Each nation has three members, each nation needs two votes from each nation to make changes, anything that does not thus remain the same. This is a very high protection mechanism, and I think it's understandable, given that it's an election law, that it should be very sensitive. Can we make a deal and why can't we agree on Mostar and Sejdić-Finc? Of course we can work things out, but we need to make a deal. So, you need to be a little careful with these simplifications, let's say, some questions. One member of the presidency is elected in Republika Srpska, two in the Federation and the matter is done. But of course it's not over, because there are other problems that need to be done here, so is Mostar. Therefore, this is about difficult political issues that have long-term significance, which are very complicated issues and I think that we in the Interresor Group, therefore leaving Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci for good, and as far as Mostar is concerned, we had two options, to talk about Mostar in a situation where there is no political consent and quite certain that we have quite a proposal that does not contain a compromise, and Mostar will not be able to be without compromise, and in this way it was condemned in advance to fail or wait for these talks that were at the city level, I think it is quite justified and that this is a better approach, and consultation, these attempts of agreement, an attempt to find a compromise, which unfortunately did not produce until the end. But I think that was a better time for this opportunity. I think it would be important to point out, as stated in the report, everything that has come to the proposals of the NGO sector, organisations of various, is all discussed on the Interresor Group, everything is, and there are ideal solutions, there are significant suggestions for improvement, but, as Mr. Čolak said, this is our range, this has got consent, it couldn't go through anymore. In my opinion, there are extraordinary suggestions, but that's my opinion, not the whole Interresor group thought so. Secondly, I think that I, therefore, would be able to do the following, today's House of Representatives to adopt this Law in both readings, which is possible according to the Rules of Procedure, with these technical changes and these interventions, to bring this to us today as an emergency procedure and to complete today's adoption of amendments to the Election Law with today's day. That's possible and I think it would be very useful and productive. As for Mostar, it might be good by one intervention in the Election Law, it says that elections, that elections are announced 150 days before the elections, that is, on October 2, May 3, may, in the Election Law, one should do something to say that elections for the City of Mostar can be announced later, not 150, but let's say 120 days before the elections, in order to open up maybe space to make the necessary efforts, reach compromises and solutions for Mostar, which may be one of the solutions, during the day or these days should be seen, but in any case before 4 May. And in this way, space would be opened if it could be found, traced or found an acceptable solution for Mostar, because I think there are plenty of options present in the parliamentary procedure. Among these options it would probably be possible to find some medium or container or some solution acceptable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1739	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1740	Dear colleagues and fellow envoys and others. 25 We are now discussing the proposal for a report on work, we went to Sejdić-Finca and Mostar, I think today in another session, we are going to talk about what the Interresor Working Group did. The greatest attention from all of this, at least in the female sex, was the story that only among the first two on the lists would find the less represented one, so it's always a woman, and that the previously established schedule would be lost where the woman had to be on the list. I've got a double story here now. So, one thing is if I look at how the party I belong to works, so HDZ BiH, here in the House of Peoples of the HDZ is the three of us, with two women, but no other parties giving up women. If I look at the House of Representatives in my party, there are 4 of BiH's HDZ, of which 2 women, 2 men, and a member of the College of this women's shit. If I look at the executive power of the important area minister from my party is the secretary of defense, so I'm talking about the woman, and here we have this colleague lady from the Council of Ministers of Women. So if I talk about how my party does it then there wouldn't be any problem with the list being without certain places where there must be a woman. The worst is, she insults me like a woman when she says she has to be second, fifth, eighth. What I can't be the woman and the first, and the third, and the fourth, and the sixth, and the eighth, which means it has to be a woman. And then when you say it like that, since I'm the president of the municipal organization of one in Novi Travnik, and when you do, we'll be making a list for the Municipal Council, then you have to round up those seats two, five, eight on the list, and then those men say if there's anything left for us, even though it's 40%, they seem like 40%. And these are round places now, don't let Bog make a woman fly in between. When I look at how other parties work, then we really need to get back to that women will have to have their seats, because they won't have a chance. According to this here, it was that women had no room, and 15% for municipal elections is a gateway, so they have to win 15% on their list. So, she'd be somewhere down at the bottom, and to win 15% was impossible. Now, what's important is that today at the House of Representatives they have these changes, and you said, Mr. Genjac, that it will go to 10%, and it will most likely be adopted by this that the woman has pre-determined places. Therefore, we have received a lot of letters, I suppose you emissaries, on our pages and on our T-shirts – do not give us the numbers and the rest. 40% is the least we women can accept, one doesn't have to go, the worst is when something has to, then you have to set up women, it's a fact that doesn't care about politics. But then since you have to have so many then come those who aren't very interested. In my view, the following interresor group should take more account, when we can't already pass as women through voting, that 40% must be in executive power, but already among the three colleagues, whom I respect, not all three men, would have to be women somewhere in the lead, not talking about executive power among ministers, so here's the party setting up women. So, 40% of women in that case, at least that way, if we don't want to vote for them, and I'm accusing women of it, they won't vote for women, so at least 40% of them are women in executive power. So we're discussing this, there's going to be a change and then this is clearly acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1741	I knew this discussion would come to Mr. Čolak, but good. Thank you. There are no further applications for participation in the debate under this agenda item. It is my duty now to conclude the debate. We move to a statement on the proposal for a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to amend the electoral legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Run the plea. 26 Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 10 delegates were in favour, 1 delegate was against, and 2 delegates were detained. From Federation 7 to, 1 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 3 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that there is a general and entity majority and that we have adopted a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to amend the electoral legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the Implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement – applicant: The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02-37-433/16, dated 05.02.2016. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has considered and adopted the report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and is proposing to the House the adoption of the Report with the following conclusions. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, to submit a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at least once a year on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for the conclusion of an agreement with entity governments and the government of the Brcko District of BiH, which will specify the financing of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Return Fund and the funding provided for in Article 24c) of the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up and submit a report on donations, i.e. the current spending of donations intended for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with putting all donor projects under control of established coordination mechanisms in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina. 5. The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with agreeing to a collective centre solution in co-operation with entity governments. Six. It is up to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to draw up a report on unrealised funds for return and the environment of which is under way. The report should state the reasons for the lack of funds and measures taken by the Ministry so far to speed up the implementation of these funds. 27 The House of Representatives adopted a report on the conclusions of the Joint Commission opinion at its 27th session, held on 05.04.2016. I'll give the word to the rapporteur if he wants to. To the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1743	Here's another thank you and another hello to everyone, especially the distinguished Human Rights Minister. And here we are, pleased to have one here today and a debate and the possibility to talk about one very thorough report on one of the most important annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement here in this House. So, to remind us, the first strategy was adopted in 2003, revised in 2010, and here, somehow every six to seven years, in a way, comes a little more seriously on the agenda here for discussion. And in short, let's be realistic, given the extent of suffering, exudus and humanitarian disasters. If we take that number back in '92, '95. that over 2,200,000 people were displaced, of which over a million and 200 in a hundred and some countries of the world, and over a million internally displaced in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the indicators provided by this report on the revised strategy, and the return of property, and the number of realized returns, and the number of renovated facilities, can be said that one big job was done if we were to be fair... But we also have to say that there's still a lot of work left, and here I have come to the word, because there are concepts here and access more or less that means that the return is over. I think, therefore, that this House, and by accepting this Report on the Revised Strategy must clearly say, be in that principled position, as long as one man wants to return to his home in any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina it is a permanent right and cannot be challenged. It would be good if we could speed it up, but unfortunately objectively, some objective circumstances, financial and other, reduced interest, other priorities in the world, not having enough internal political consensus and environment for faster and more quality return, limit certain things. And now I'd just focus on some of them. We have, I support these conclusions, I think they're well engaged, commissions and I was going to say, I'm going to illustrate one example through Conclusion 4. – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with putting all donor projects under control of established coordination mechanisms. This is very important, I will only mention this regional project a hundred and a few million euros. According to the information I have, from the people directly concerned, there is one form of discrimination when it comes to these funds. From what I know, it's, it's some criteria that determine donors. I ask that it be checked, because applying for funds under this project cannot persons refugees from the Republic of Croatia who in any way, they or members of their families, have resolved some property status or legal status. And that restrictive criterion does not apply to any other country. I ask that it be checked, and if that is true then that this objectively discriminatory provision in the resolution of the funds from this project is eliminated, especially because we know that they exist objectively, and we know what is the legal role of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which is, in fact, to coordinate, create and implement a uniform return strategy throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am now quoting the law. And if we take the whole space of Bosnia and Herzegovina 28 objectively we can see some holes in that return map today, with a simple naked eye when we're passing through, I don't want to prefer any space here, but I have a right here like all the other MPs, when you pass the area from Doboj to the Bosnian Ship, so you can see in continuity 20 years the same reference, 20 years. I'm not going to... I'm giving assessments why, how, who's all responsible, of course, there's a much wider responsibility. But it is certain, therefore, that one more balanced approach to project implementation, to return priorities, I think you should also follow the Strategy further in its process. And I mean every space in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the same way. And of course there is one more thing that we need to talk about through this Strategy, which is, it is clear today that it is no longer enough to restore either the apartment or the house in terms of sustainable return, and we see today how many open issues there are when it comes to education, a right that is simply guaranteed by all possible international conventions and our Constitution, how many examples of unrealization of these rights burden our reality, how many such cases are also in relation to access to health care and social protection, that I am not talking about employment issues. And it is quite certain that this Strategy, in my view, gives sufficient quality grounds for all of us to, of course, in accordance with our responsibility and competences here, the Ministry has one part of jurisdiction, international organisations that are involved in this whole process also have a part, entities have an absolute part of it, cantons have their share, and I think that there is one kind of coordination further in the realization of these recommendations and priorities should be absolutely focused on all of us, and in my view, considering this report should be at least once in half a year if we want to make a contribution and that the Ministry and the competent institutions perform their function, and that people believe that, regardless of the gravity of the situation, this right and the right to their country will never be disputed, and when it is realized, Bog will be as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1744	Thank you too, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1745	Thank you. The report itself on the implementation of the revised strategy has raised issues on the Commission for Human Rights and pointed to certain shortcomings in the implementation of the Strategy so far and possible ways to address the problem. With the presence of the Minister in charge, Mrs Borovac, the Commission seems to be having a very, very thorough and productive debate, and I think these conclusions are on the basis of this document of such an achievement and, I would say, such importance as they have never been in the context of the revised strategy. And I'll just draw attention, because this is, you know, you know, you're asking the Ministry to conclude with entity governments an agreement that will specify the funding of the Return Fund. There's a problem. The second thing, the Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Council of Ministers to draw up and submit a report on donations,... there were also huge problems of all contradictions, i.e. the current spending of donations intended for the implementation of Annex VII. So, a synthetic report about all these donations is required, because you know donors do their jobs, left hand doesn't know what the right pocket is doing, uh, donors are doing their projects, the authorities don't know what it's about, etc., there's been a lot of it. Furthermore, the Parliamentary Assembly tasks the ministry with putting all donor projects under control of established coordination mechanisms. A very significant conclusion, therefore. Then, the ministry is tasked with forming a report on unrealised funds to return. The funds you know stand for, they don't come true or they're in progress, the slow 29 goes, and we're looking to see what's the reason they're late. The report therefore states the reasons for the lack of use of funds so far. The only thing missing from these conclusions is deadlines. It seems to me that, I think it should be some deadline of maybe half a year for the implementation of these conclusions was realistic, feasible. Some of them may be implemented sooner, but we might add here that these conclusions are carried out in the next half of the year and that the House is reported to it. I think it would be a real deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1746	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Given that there are no further reports, I'm closing the debate. I'm moving on to a plea. We first vote on the report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were for, against no one, two delegates were abstained. From Federation 9 for, no one against, no one abstention, from the Order of the Serbian 2 for, against none, abstention 2. Given that there is both a general and an entity majority, I find that the report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement has been adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission on Human Rights. Run the vote, please. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were for, against no one, two delegates were abstained. From Federation 9 for, against no one, abstention, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, no one against, abstention 2. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Human Rights have been adopted. We're going to work at point 10.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1747	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1748	The word is requested by the chief of the Bosniak People's Club, Mr. Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1749	Only this amendment that I have spoken, please, so after these conclusions to be added at the end – the deadline for the realization of these conclusions is no later than 6 months. Let's get this straight. The supplement, since there are no deadlines in these conclusions, so I intervened in the discussion, so the deadline for non-realisation of these conclusions, to add sentences – no later than 6 months. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1750	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I took it as a rhetorical question that we agree on. But certainly to your insistence we will return to this point of the agenda and declare it. So I will allow myself to interpret what Mr Genjac said for a stenogram, Mr Genjac's proposal reads as follows: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH expects the conclusions to be realised within no longer than 6 months. We're running a plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, no one was against, and 2 delegates were detained. From Federation 9 to, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska 2 for, versus no one, 2 abstentions. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that Mr. Genjac's proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Now we're going to work on item 10 of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2015, issue: 05/7-50-13-568/16, since 16/02.2016. You have been given the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission supported the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 27th session, held on 05.04.2016. I call upon the rapporteur on behalf of the Commission, if he wishes to take his word. It's like the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he wishes. It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the 2015 report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 delegates were...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1752	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1753	You want a repeat vote? 31 I ask to repeat the vote for a technical error in the advertising of Mr. Raguž. Thank you, Mr. Babalj, do you want to repeat the vote or is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1754	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1755	I ask you once again to vote for Mr. Darko Babalj's advertising. And I might have finished this session a long time ago, but here we are waiting for colleagues from the House of Representatives. Thank you. Of the docking 13 delegates – 13 delegates voted in favour, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 9 for, from Republika Srpska 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2015 has been adopted. Now we're going to work on item 11, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2015, issue: 05/1-50-19-629/16 of 22.02.2016 and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2016, issue: 05/1-50-19-630/16, of 22.02.2016. You have received a negative opinion from the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission did not accept the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2015, as well as the Work Plan of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2016. The House of Representatives at the 27th session, held on 05.04.2016, did not adopt the report on the work of the Independent Committee and did not receive knowledge of the Plan of the Independent Committee. I give the word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if it pleases. It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. Mr. Krunić? The word is by Mr. Žika Krunić, president of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of the BiH police structure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1757	I welcome Mr. Chairman and Vice-President, all the delegates of this distinguished House, Madam Minister and all present in this room. I've been thinking about whether or not to appear at this point at all, but I've been asked by my fellow Independent Committee colleagues to address this House anyway, to try to give some explanations, not in the sense of any justification and justification for the position of the Independent Committee, that is, in any case, the matter of one and another home and the assessment and assessment of the success of the work of the Independent Committee and the decision of any kind, but we've simply assessed that there is a need to try to explain what we failed to explain on the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, or on the Ad hoc commission formed by both homes. What does that have to do with this report now? This way, report as a report. It was normal to expect, since the report by character, by nature, of things depicted what an organ was doing during a period, no major problems should be expected during its adoption. However, this report for 2015, I am talking about the 2015 Report, it is characterized that much through the content of this Report, some of which are related to 2014, so I am not wrong in 2014, although it is now 2016, and there is some, let's say, a basic objection to the Independent Committee was put in place, and from the Ad hoc Commission and the Joint Commission on Defence and Safety, as if we haven't held a session every month, which is prescribed by our Rules of Procedure on Labour, I say to ours, it is the Rules of Procedure of Procedure on the Work adopted by both Houses of this Parliament, it is not the Rules of Procedure of the Independent Committee we only apply it, which is true. So we don't want to question this legal fact if we can't bring it in, but we need to explain more for moral reasons, one situation that is negatively manifested in public simply without further explanation, here's the Independent Committee not held a session every month, and that's now a fundamental mistake and reason for their resolution, etc., etc. I also prayed to the Ad hoc Commission, and please this House, uh, delegates to accept the notorial fact that every month, even more times than once, we have gathered from Travnik, Bijeljina, Brcko, where we all form the composition of this Independent Committee, spent a few hours in an attempt to reach a consensus on the agenda, I am talking about that year, and in the end we have not been able to reach the agenda because the Rules of Procedure are very high-ranking most of the 7 votes, which is difficult to achieve when it comes to 9 members of the Independent Committee. And in the end, we didn't make it, but I'm particularly emphasising it, and that's why I'm the most and only talking to this House, to explain it more for moral reasons, because in public it sounds very ugly, uh, it's always been that we haven't been doing it like we're being arrogant and irresponsible, etc. But that's not true, I'm simply asking you to accept that it's not true, we've been coming, we've been spending hours trying to establish consensus and agenda, we've been true about events, these are events that are related to the then director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, and that's why we haven't been able to provide 7 votes. Two to three members of the Independent Committee were mostly in favour of a proposal to go ahead with a decision to replace the Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, but the majority of five to six members were of a different position, especially a different position after the court's proceedings were brought before the ordinary court, i.e. at the Court of BiH against the then director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. So, when a court case was initiated, it was our signal that, let's see that we don't run, let's not be the smartest, let's see what the Court as the relevant institution, the most called institution, determine on these issues, one fact. The second fact, we had already raised the issue of appeal by an appeal from the then-Governmental Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection at the Constitutional Court of BiH, which was also a signal to us not to be in front of all of us. Finally, the BiH Constitutional Court has established its decision and infringements of the right to a fair trial against that person, I would not now take that decision to take up time and quote, who would like to know the decision, where infringements of the right to a fair trial were found in relation to Article II of the Constitution of BiH and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, Article 6, etc., etc. So, please, I'm just trying to point out this fact, so it's not about the arrogance of our work, every month and more times we've come, we've tried to come to a decision, we've failed, we haven't succeeded for this reason that I just pointed out. Similar situations continue to follow us, here we have a similar situation lately only other actors, where since August of the month we've been trying to reach a decision, three times we've come to a voting phase, we haven't been able to get seven votes, I'm not going to talk about who it's about, because you can all assume it, etc. We are in no condition to make a decision under the initiative of the Minister of Security. I am very sorry that the Minister of Security is not present here now, to try to explain that we have taken seriously the initiative that came from the Minister of Security, which represents the Council of Ministers in the area of security, according to our duties. Of course, security is also a matter of this House, or Parliament, which is... through the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, it is not controversial, but also the Minister's initiative has its weight, but we were unable to make a decision, neither to accept it nor to reject it. It would be legal and... we would accept the initiative, and it's democratic, if that decision were made in such a way, but because of the kind of prescribed and qualified majority, that it would be a little short for me not to take a lot of time and to say the point, we weren't in a situation to make that decision. At the last session when we had a third attempt to vote on Mr. Mektić's initiative again, we didn't have enough majority, we had three, three, three, three for, three against, three abstentions, etc. At that time, using some legal authority as president of the Independent Committee, I proposed to the Independent Committee to adopt an initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure. It is simply not a normal situation for us to have a minister's initiative that is responsible for the security issue, and that we cannot make a decision either for or against. However, we did not, this initiative did not get the necessary majority back on the Independent Committee, so that is the situation it is. Of course, there was dissatisfaction with the Ad hoc commission and about some other issues. Here's a detail that, when interviewing for the last election of the Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, one of the candidates at the time had no diploma nostrichted from the neighbouring country, specifically from the state of Serbia, and so he did not participate in the further procedure. We have also been highly respected on the committee for, the Ad hoc commission this Parliament has formed. It comes down to what I have already said two, three times, that it is necessary for this House and the Representative Council and the Council of Ministers to consider this well. I explained why those decisions weren't, uh, we couldn't make them, that they were possibly going to change these acts. Of course, through this explanation, I've already said in the introduction, that the matter of this House is how it will evaluate and assess what kind of decision it will make in your hands, I won't get into it at all, but I had the need to explain this situation that it wasn't about the failure of the Independent Committee. It's very embarrassing to listen to in public. I never allowed myself, nor my colleagues to answer such accusations, uh, high-ranking press officials, etc., we were always abstentioned, but this is the opportunity and this is where I wanted to say it in front of you and ask in that sense your understanding of such a situation, not that, through the press, we are polluting. There were even heavy charges and that the Independent Committee was making illegal decisions, which is absolutely not true, but I never allowed myself to now, through the press, explain that it is not true, etc., etc. Here, so much, Mr. Chairman, I am in charge, as I said in the introduction, of my colleagues from the Independent Committee to try to explain this situation, not to beg any of your decisions about the fate of the Independent Committee, it is not our goal, but simply to ask you to humanly understand what we are accused of being reluctant, that it is simply not true. And that's the work, people came from High, from Brcko, from Bijeljina...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1758	If anyone understands you, we understand you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1759	Okay, I apologize if I'm a little bit. I didn't hear. Is that my question? 34
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1760	I say, if anyone understands you, we MPs understand when it comes to these accusations, I apologize just say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1761	Okay, I hope that was honestly said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1762	Thank you, too. He applied for participation in a discussion that I am now opening in the light of the correction of the false quote Mr. Podžić. Did you want a discussion or a correction to the wrong quote exactly?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1763	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1764	Correction, please. Dear colleague, Mr. Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1765	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates. So, I would ask Mr. Krunić, uh, to distinguish the Commission's powers for defence and security and the Ad hoc commission that examined the work of the Independent Committee. So it can't be mentioned in the same context as the other commission. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Defence and Security Commission only discussed the Work Report and the Work Plan for the following year. Please, of the 12 members of the Commission, therefore, 7 members of the Commission voted not to accept the report on the work of the Independent Committee and 2 members of the Commission were abstentions. So no one was to be accepted. The same case is for the Work Plan. I don't enter the Ad hoc Commission's findings and I don't care, but from what I read your work, I will, your report on the work, and as I said to the Defence and Security Commission that by accident in my name, I will end up with that, that you happen to have in your name to call yourself an inter-entity committee, an international committee, an inter-party committee, I would accept, but you have the name Independent Committee, and I don't like it, if I follow the course of the session, through your Report I can never raise my hand for it. But I would ask you, as a member of the Commission, and as far as I know, no one from the Defence and Security Commission has gone into it either in the media or anywhere, and the Commission vote has been the way it is. I'm not getting into what the Ad hoc commission was doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1766	Mr. Ognjen Tadić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would, in one sentence, try to describe what Mr Podžić said, so even if you hadn't sat down, no one takes it as a key reason, especially not in the 2015 report, that he is giving evaluations of the work of the Commission, because that absence of the session was during 2014, we know that 35 were then both floods and political circumstances pre-election, such as, such as, for all of these can be understood. However, the problem is this 2015 and this report on it, the Independent Committee as an independent body was designed to lead as a pilar of professionalism, principledity, non-politicalism, fighting for the legal order, for honest, honest police officers, police leaders above all. And my personal feeling is that you haven't recognized that a very organized and very persistent phase of fighting organised crime and corruption has begun, above all in the system of government. Whether because of bad experience, whether because of someone's personal experience, whether for these or those reasons, but like you, as a body, you simply didn't catch a step in the desire of the people who chose you, and who chose you again, by definition, you are by definition responsible for us, to really oppose organized crime and corruption. So it's just left out, it's now a matter of feeling that we can get along with or disagree with, but it's my question of feeling, I'm just taking it as my right that's why, uh, I'm saying what I'm saying. Now, there are several examples on which I build such a feeling. We're not going to enter 2014 and the case of former Director of the Investigation and Protection Agency, Mr. Zubac, it's got the epilogue it got. We can enter three other cases, the election of the director of the new Agency for Investigation and Protection, the competition procedure and two cases related to the Director of the Police Coordination Directorate concerning the Srebrenica case and the Deputy Director of the Directorate, that is, the Agency for Investigation and Protection, in the case of suspension of a number of officials, following the decision of the Director, and in the case concerning... Now this, these two things that I mentioned, Mr. Vilić's case, he's alive for the good part in front of his eyes, so happened to all the people in this country and the environment, and somehow you've come to the conclusion, and it's not an observation to the individual but to the team, not even to the majority, but to the team, with your relations within it, your efforts to build that atmosphere of independence, so that you can make independent decisions, that it's none of the country's prime ministers in a very specific situation, in general an effort of this society to overcome some events from the past and open some new pages of history, someone's stoned, by professional many estimates due to the failures of those who were in charge of the safety of that event and that nothing, anything, anything, anything, has happened. Like, you know, let's forget it. I'm not saying everything can be forgotten, but someone's responsibility still exists, as they say, as it says, I'm not getting into any phrases right now. Now, this second case regarding the deputy director of SIPA, I'm not going to go in because the trial is under way, and that's what you're going to decide, but you're going to have to ask yourself very carefully why the reasons that, by definition, the independent are not standing for you. So that already raises doubts about whether politics got involved, so whether you're independent. Now this third case he's kind of telling me the most about is that I personally won't be involved in something that could be an attack on your independence and an attack on legal conduct. Because during the period of power, which I support, you have made a decision that out of a competitive procedure, I am telling you, in an unconstitutional and illegal way, you are eliminating a candidate who has met all the conditions, named Ranko Vuković, the Chief Inspector of the Ministry of the Interior. That's when you did it on my cheek, because I'm the one who supports this government that wants to fight crime and corruption, and you're like the Independent Committee part of that system. And you've made a decision that you can't justify, because you haven't been to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security session, your representative there has explained to us that no international agreement can be applied, and it is applied by the Court of BiH directly that says you don't need nostration of the diploma. And a man shows you the verdict of this Independent Committee from which it can be read, you say, "What do we care about that?" That's what you did to my cheek, because you put a stain on my endeavor and the insistence of the people of the Alliance for Change and those we're with together to do nothing legally harm the authority and credibility of our fight against 36 crime and corruption. If you were persuaded by someone in our ranks, I invite you to say so and you will receive my positive vote for your report. If someone in other people's ranks talked you into it, tell me who it is, and you'll get my positive vote. But to keep quiet, to pretend that it didn't happen, to eliminate a candidate known to be, according to his professional references, that he is certainly one of them who would equally or more fight crime and corruption at the place of the SIPA director, which you won't do on my cheek and have my support. I call you publicly, here with this stenogram, in front of all these people, tell you if anyone from the SDS or the Alliance for Change has asked you or asked you to conduct a competitive procedure so that this candidate is eliminated and whether someone from another political party, or some individual from some power center, asked you to do so? It's impossible that you did it face all the facts on your own, I don't believe it. That's my reason for the basic reason I consider for 2015 what I think I am and I voted as I voted. As far as the Labour Plan is concerned, here's to adopting it, there's no more trust. In this Parliamentary Assembly with this majority, there is no longer any trust in your independence. And what Mr. Podžić says will only be considered once the report of the Committee comes here, it is not a topic at all. But this is where the decades-long struggle of many people is discredited, over two and a half decades, to get from a single-party system to a regulated system of the rule of law in which no party is asked, not to ask any individual, but to which institutions really function properly. Now that I'm, I'm telling you, I've welcomed it so it can be in that mandate where you expect my support, I'm telling you... the way you didn't make it possible. Now you're gonna tell me why he didn't complain? Well, you know how, I haven't talked to him on the subject, nor with any other candidate, but it seems to me that many people who have long waited to finally start fighting crime and corruption, organised crime, to lose confidence that this is possible, given the height of the obstacles that we inherited from previous generations of government, regardless of who it was, SNSD, SDS, PDP, SDA, HDZ, all living parties that have changed in power. I know those obstacles are high to you, too, but your back is number one, and you're part of a team that's bound to take those obstacles down if they can't skip them. You're the ones who should do it, and we're just gonna back you up and give you all the strength to do it. Unfortunately, it didn't work out at this stage I'm talking about, but that fight is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1768	Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? Mr. Krunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1769	...to hear the other side. Thank you again. Of course, since Mr. Chairman is speaking to me, in some way, personally, not to me, but to me as President of the Independent Committee, I would only ask that, if possible, if you have wishes, time, needs, it is a serious question, to take a stenogram from that session of the Independent Committee, and to see what kind of discussions were and what it was that the Independent Committee, or individual members, motivated in the assessment that this candidate, as it were, did not meet the conditions under the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or at that time did not have the nostricated diplom he acquired in another country. I, nor did he tell me what Mr. Tadić, 37 or anyone from either, as he said, the Serbian Democratic Party or the Alliance for Change, I don't know what you just said, I apologize, or anyone else... talked about any people, there were seven, eight people, candidates, I can't remember how many there were, and the Independent Committee did not care whether there were seven, or eight, or nine candidates, there was no reasonable reason why anyone would mind that candidate not being still in the process and in the game. So it's best to take that stenogram, because I didn't make the decision alone, nor did it take seven votes to make a decision, I just talked about it, which I insist that the homes keep considering and possibly see, because this way with such a highly qualified majority is impossible to make any decision. Here, I apologize and, of course, I won't answer any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1770	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1771	Just for the sake of a stenogram and for all of this to be completed, so I'll give you the following information. During this session, and you know it, one of the members of your Independent Committee, Ljubomir Kuravica, presented to you the verdict relating to him personally, not to the Municipal Court in Banja Luka, or to Zenica, or to Zavidovica, or to Ljubusko, but to the Court of BiH. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At Ljubomir Kuravica, in which it is said very clearly that it is in the same problem as the Kuravica Court has concluded: The Court has made it clear, I read, therefore, that by the provision of Article 5. Agreement on mutual recognition of documents on the education and regulation of status issues of students and students "Official Messenger of Republika Srpska" No 79/05, the issue of recognition of nostrification arranged in such a way that diplomas acquired in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia are mutually recognised in the exercise of employment rights and for other professional purposes, on the basis of the expertise the diploma reads and in accordance with the regulations applicable in each of the signatories of the Agreement without the need to carry out the nostriification, and therefore the form of notification is the only way in which the Ministry of Education and Culture of Republika Srpska could confirm, etc., in its case, etc. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1775	Thank you. Do we have any more debates? If he doesn't, I'm closing the argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1776	All right, we're moving on now, moving on to the pleas. First we vote on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2015. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, there were 4 delegates, 5 delegates against them, 2 delegates were detained. From the Federation of Two against Three, abstention 2, from Republika Srpska 2 for, versus 2, no one abstained. There is no general majority, so I realize that the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2015 has not been adopted. We are now voting on the Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2016. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, there were four delegates, five delegates against them, two delegates were detained. From Federation 2 for, against 3, abstention 2, from Republika Srpska 2 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. Since there is no general majority, I find that the Plan of Work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2016 has not been adopted into knowledge. Moving to work at point 12. Ad. 12. Report on the Commission's work on the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2015, issue: 05/8-50-14-485-6/16, dated 03.03.2016. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission accepted the report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 27th session, held on 05.04.2016. 39 I give the word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations, if He will. He's not there. In the name of his deputy, some. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1779	...telling me about corruption and the fight against that same corruption. I just wanted to point out the importance of this, the work of this Committee on Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. In fact, on one of the previous reports of this agency, I concluded in my debate that we leaders not in the region, but on the planet as regards preventing all forms of corruption, because the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency managed to shed light on a few thousand marks of hard corruption in its work, although its work cost much more. So I expect that now that there is parliamentary oversight of this commission that we will have, it will be extremely interesting to compare the results that they have had before and which they will achieve after what they have, means in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the people who follow their work. And here I expect to raise at least tens of thousands of marks of corrupt work in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I've been trying to calculate these corrupt works that they've lit up cannot be expressed in prominences, so we at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina have the budgets of several billion and when you find a few thousand marks that went into corruption, what Switzerland is for us where we are... it's a miracle. And here, I say, I'm glad we're at least in some segment leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1780	Thank you too, Mr. Karamatić. Are there any further applications for participation in the discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the discussion. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Commission's work report on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2015. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 12 delegates, there was no one against, there was one delegate. From Federation 9 to no one, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska 3 for, against no one and one abstention. 40 There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Commission's work report on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on preventing corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2015 has been adopted. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Work report and Financial Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2015, issue: 01,02-16-1-771/16, dated 09.03.2016. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission accepted the report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 27th session, held on 05.04.2016. I give my word to Mr Sead Kadić, the first deputy chairman of the Commission, if he wishes. It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports, so I'm closing the hearing. We move to a statement and vote on the Work Report and the Financial Report of the Agency for Postal Traffic of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour, no one was against, no one was abstentioned. From Federation 9 for, from Republika Srpska 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we adopted the Work Report and the Financial Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Traffic Agency for 2015. On the agenda of today's session there is still agreement on ratification of agreements and protocols. I suggest we unify the debate, but separate the statement on items 14 and 15 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on this procedural issue. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on this procedural issue, so we're uniting the debate apart from the plea. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, against 1, abstention 1. From the Federation
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1782	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-04-27-0.u1783	Mr. Nović is advertising the voting process. 41 Please repeat the process. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, 1 delegate, 1 delegate was detained. From Federation 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from the Order of the Serbian 3 for, versus 1, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have united the debate and separated the statement on points 14 to 15 of the agenda. Ad. 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on cross-border supervision between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-05-2-57/16, as of 17.02.2016. Ad. 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Note of the Agreement – exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China on grant of grants, No: 01,02-05-2-960/16, of 25.03.2016. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication to the House of Peoples. I give my word to Mr Sead Kadić, the first deputy chairman of the Commission, if he wishes. It's like a report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports of discussion. I'm closing the debate. Now we're moving on to a statement, a moment, a moment, please cancel this action you've taken. So we're canceling this action. So, firstly, we declare agreeing to ratify the Protocol on cross-border supervision between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 8 delegates against 2 delegates with a total of 3. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska no one for, 2 against and 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity, so we need to move on to alignment. [[/Collegiate consent.]]
