ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2370	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 24th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. A total of 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people, attend the session. As indicated in the invitation to the session, and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will allow delegates to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 24th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 24th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, representatives of BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadko; delegate Zdenko Džambas for Minister of Finance and Treasury Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda; delegate Bariša Čolak for Minister of Justice Mr. Josip Grubeša; delegate Martin Raguž for Minister of Justice of BiH, Mr. Josip Grubeša; delegate for the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH Mr. Ismir Jusk; chairman of the House of the Peoples Mr. Safet Softić for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Denis Zvizdić and the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, Mr. Semiha Borovac. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to the Council of Ministers. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public Radio Television Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to delegate Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 2 Well, first I would like to thank the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Brkić, for taking the time and coming. However, my question was addressed, in fact it should have been addressed exclusively to the minister because it refers to his work, and I am sorry, here, that Mr. Crnadak is not here. I believe that he should be at every session since I was going to ask some of his views with his colleagues, but I have not been able to find anyone in the House of Representatives or in the House of Peoples of his party, so I would extend the question when the minister is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2372	Thank you very much. I give my word to delegate Zdenka Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2373	Nice to meet you. I don't know if I'm gonna get an answer from the Treasury Department. So it's been a while since we adopted the amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries and Refunds relating to Commission work, so I was interested in what financial effects are – since we heard here when this Law was proposed that there would be multimillion-dollar savings. I personally think it's not enough just, I really don't know the answer, I don't know what the savings are, but it's not enough when you look at what damage can make such a single change. And I'm going to repeat what I said last time, so that's why I did, and that's that I'm on this Ad hoc commission to elect members of the Board of the Higher Education Agency where we're registered or registered by a very small number of people, and those who apply are usually either retired or here from Sarajevo, because what we adopted no longer pays to come to people from Bihać, from Banja Luka, from Mostar, is simply, practically, no such compensation. So we leave the students, we leave the university and universities, I can't tell the unprofessional people, but we certainly don't have a choice, so it can mean mismanagement of higher education, so it can happen that we have missed generations. Here's a recent six thousand and some people graduated here in Sarajevo, I'm just wondering where they out of this country can get their degree. So it's very important that the second part that you can't see from that financial effect, and I'm sorry. And given that there is a whole series of amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries that would be the turn that comes, and I am against such sudden and unilaterally passed laws. I really want to hear it, so that she can ask the question afterwards – and what it is and what it is that we, as representatives/legislators, can do to make sure that we know where the money is going to be saved. We have through our commission the financial way and the will if there is already that money to tell us where he would go. At the very least, here's the marking of the child's rights, and there's already a whole series of suggestions, so I'm curious what's going on with that?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2374	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Mirsad Žuga, Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2375	Dear Chairman, distinguished delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all very much. 3 So, given the very short time since the moment of asking questions, it was difficult to do a detailed analysis, and especially regarding these other effects of this Law, which is also applicable to these solutions that are now under way. So if you're interested in any individual solution that we can provide you with an individual analysis for each... At this moment, what we can say is that since this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, i.e. it has been applicable since 01.01.2016, the financial part of it, this, as far as work is concerned, is actually a fee for working in committees and for working on boards and supervisory boards we have done this analysis based on what has been paid out of the budget compared to 2015. Thus, the fees for the work of the Management and Supervisory Boards and other working bodies in 2015 for the first nine months amounted to 1,259.812, and for the same period was 745.711 in 2016. So the difference is 514.101. The fee for commission work in 2015 was 746,255 and 557,080 in 2016. So the difference is 189,175. If you're looking at the total, so the total difference is actually less paid 703,276. The funds go through the budget for next year, and now it's a matter of how these funds will be planned further in the budget. And I'm telling you, for a detailed analysis of every proposal that's under way, you can contact us and we'll deliver it to you individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2376	Thank you, Deputy. Is the delegate, Mrs. Džambas, satisfied with the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2377	Of course, I'm satisfied that the answer came really on time. And since it's not about these multimillion-dollar savings, I said what the other side is, you said yourself that this is a purely financial effect, and for all of this other thing that we know is wrong for me only now it's interesting again – we saved 700,000 marks in this way as it is, how can I, how can I start an initiative for which these funds can be used. Not for vehicles new, for jeeps and stuff, I'm curious, here's why we can use it. I really want to start the initiative, and I'm going to run it, it'll be safe to help the kids.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2378	Thank you very much. The word is from the delegate Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2379	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mr Grubeša, and it concerns practically the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Namely, by my judgment in several cases, but here's the latest example is the appointment of judges to the Community Court in Chitluk. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council does not respect the national structure of the population, or the one from '91, or the one from 2013. So I asked, in fact, to be answered – why the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council did not respect the national structure when electing judges and prosecutors and I asked for the structure of judges and prosecutors in the Herzegova-Neretva County to be delivered to me. During the appointment of judges in Chitluk, many provisions were violated, hence the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, provisions and the Law on the courts of the Herzegovina-Neretva County were violated, provisions and the Law on High 4 Judges and Prosecutors' Council were violated, in particular Article 43(2). As a result, and the fact is, on 8 and 9, in fact, November, excuse me, November 9 and 10th was a session of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, when the judges were appointed on that occasion, a judge of the Croatian people, a judge of the Serb people and two from the Bosniak people, was appointed at the Citluk Municipal Court. The '91 census. is such that in Citluk municipality there are 18,400 inhabitants, of which 29 people are members of the Bosniak people and 15 Serbian people. Moreover, I would say, worrying that the first name was only named, therefore, the judge of the Croatian people, she was the first on the list, so on the list of successful candidates, and then on the list of seven candidates, therefore, who were on the list of successful, this one, from the order of the Croatian people to be named, I don't know, the eighth in the order of the Serb people, 11th and 13th candidates from the Bosniak people. I really think that's disturbing. So, here's the minister, and I know it's been a short time, I referred the question to Friday, and I want an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2380	Thank you very much. Minister Grubeš has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2381	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, honourable envoys, envoys, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The BiH Justice Ministry immediately contacted the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which provided data on the national structure in courts and the Prosecutor's Office of the Herzegovina-Neretva County. Since it's very extensive data, I'm going to answer the question briefly, and I'm going to deliver the other data in writing. During the appointment of judges in all municipalities of the Herzegovina-Neretva County, a national balance was applied as follows: 37.4% Bošnjak, 40.7% Hrvat, 14.1%) Srbin and 7.9% of others. This percentage was also applied to the County Prosecutor's Office of the Herzegova-Neretva County. In all courts in the Herzegovina-Neretva County, 64 judges of 67 systematically appointed positions were currently appointed. For three positions, the tender procedure is ongoing. Of the systematicized numbers, 26 Bošnjak, 27 Hrvat, 9 Srbin and 2 others were filled. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2382	Thank you very much. Is the delegate, Mr. Bariša Čolak, satisfied with the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2383	I'm looking, as the minister said, for full information, uh, but here, from what we've heard today, from what I've presented, of course I can't be satisfied, but it's up to the minister to deliver, therefore, a complete answer. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2384	Thank you very much. The word is from delegate Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2385	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is also addressed to the minister of justice, Mr Grubeša, and concerns the issue of the processing of war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, related to the role of the Ministry of Justice, its jurisdiction, especially when it comes to the role of the Ministry of Justice as the central body of the link for international legal assistance and as bodies which are obliged to provide European standards in the process, in all processes and in all institutions, judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say the truth is that the direct cause for my question is the arrest of 10 officers of the Croatian Council of Defense who defended and defended Oresje, so I repeat and defended the Oresje, but it's not just about the case, but it's just, uh, I'm just using it as an illustration of some processes and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I've got the cover for this because I've been asking questions before, unrelated to this case, and specifically the minister of justice. And I think it's high time that we in the Parlment and the public together in Bosnia and Herzegovina have information and some insight into what really happens when these processes are at stake. I understand that the role of the Ministry of Justice is limited, I understand that we have other institutions by vertical means, I understand that the judiciary is independent, I understand that there is a prosecution, courts at all levels, and I understand, too, the fact that politics should not have an impact on the judiciary. But I also understand from the fact that every crime is a conviction, that every defendant of crime needs to be sanctioned and that every victim needs a minimum innocent victim to gain satisfaction. But I still can't help but get the impression that I have a responsibility to comment on some things. First, the fact is, therefore, that there has been an arrest without being allowed to process a normal hearing and the possibility of an investigation being conducted, conducted and communicated in conditions that respect man's dignity and facts, therefore, that every man is innocent until proven otherwise. The fact is, therefore, that one area that has been chosen under impossible conditions has been defended, the fact is that more than 100 thousand Hrvat have been persecuted in that space, burned ground, and that when we pull the parallel responsible to see, here's just to make sure that there is a balance and whether there is this objectivity in processing all those responsible on all sides.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2386	Time, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2387	Here, I accept, but we had some other colleagues who were also asking questions, I didn't believe the time so...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2388	That's right, we tolerated it to a minute, you're already fat out of minutes, so you...
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2389	Okay. Here, the question is, I conclude, I accept the Honorable Chairman, so I understand what the role of the Ministry of Justice is, but we need to get here changes to the proposal of 6 laws on courts, on the VSTV, so that, in a way, we can make the institutions of the judiciary functional, transparent, without a political dimension, without selectivity and with complete transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2390	Thank you. Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2391	Thank you very much to the honourable envoy for asking. So, I'll just answer it for a second. Article 13 The law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration, which determines the responsibilities of the ministries, has been found by the BiH Ministry of Justice, among other things, to be relevant for international legal aid issues, but only at a certain level. The procedure for providing international assistance in criminal matters is governed by the provisions of the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Those laws prescribed which issues the BiH Department of Justice is responsible for as part of the executive government, while a certain part of the issue was given to the judiciary. As the judiciary is absolutely separate from the executive authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina and also divided into different levels of government, the BiH Ministry of Justice has no power to influence the provision of international legal assistance in criminal matters in the area in which the judicial authority or prosecution are in charge, including issues concerning the processing of war crimes perpetrators themselves. The strict division of the authorities without the possibility of calling for the responsibility of one authority in relation to the other, at least in a limited part, created a situation for the state and its authorities not to have the possibility to seek answers to questions directly related to the protection of the highest social values, as is the case with the processing of the perpetrators of criminal offences, given that the prosecution in these cases comes on behalf of and on behalf of the State. In view of the jurisdiction of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, it also has certain opportunities to sanction members of the judiciary who do not do their job in accordance with the law or do their job unwittingly and recklessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2392	Thank you. Mr. Raguž, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2393	I thank Mr. Secretary. I have already said, in the light of the question, that it is clear to me, therefore, that the powers of the Ministry of Justice, what is the role of other judicial institutions, the VSTV, the prosecution, the courts, and in this respect is correct and precise in terms of jurisdiction and accountability, but to argue today that the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina is completely independent, I think it is minimally pretentious. I'm not saying that for the minister, but that thesis is developing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the same time I hear the highest officials in this country's assessment that it is, in fact, the most problematic, here's a slight part of the institutional order in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if you have in mind the coincidence of such a situation and the implications of the overall social events in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I can only conclude here that there are elements to read that the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is obviously not only over, but 7 continues with other means, other means, and that there is no near equality of citizens in front of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just to illustrate the fact, so the arrest is explained by the fact that these people had dual citizenship. So whether people with dual citizenship should be sanctioned for it or not should be able to communicate normally with court cases as well as others. And the fact is, then, is that it's time not to put our heads in the sand, but to seriously deal with changing the law. And I expected from the minister, but here, not today, there will be an opportunity, to see what weak legal points are in the Law on Courts, on the VSTV and the necessary changes that we need to make that judiciary truly independent and to act according to European criteria. That's where you owe me the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2394	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word is Mr. Sead Kadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2395	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, ministers from the Council of Ministers, the others present, I warmly welcome you all. I refer my question to the Minister of Transport and Communications at the Council of Ministers, and it refers to the status of the Union railway as well as the overall state of the infrastructure link between the UN-Sancanton with Sarajevo and other parts of our country. I also asked the previous minister the same question, which in his answer suggested certain activities that should give clearer answers to the status of the Union railway. We know less about it today than we knew back then. Also over 300km of very poor road infrastructure reduces the chances of a UN-Sancanton for any significant economic assistance. In 2015, the federal government in Budžet planned part of the funding to launch activities to build an airport in Bihac, which would also give a strong boost to the development of tourism in the area of UN-San canton. Your public statements, Mr. Minister, and the activities you are leading give me hope that your answers as well as your actions within the limits of your responsibilities will also be directed towards the Krajina as well as towards all other parts of our country.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2396	Thank you very much. Minister Jusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2397	Honored chairman, distinguished delegates, members of the Council of Ministers and media representatives. First of all, I thank the distinguished delegate for the question, and this is not the first time I've gotten a similar question, but I'll be free to give you an answer to the same and maybe give some of my reasons for your question. When it comes to the status of the UN railway, the position of the UN railway on the move of Bosnian Novi – Novi Grad – Bihać – Martin Brod and Knin also require the will of the Republic of Croatia. So far, Croatia has not expressed its desire to activate this railway because, besides other reasons, the railway crosses eight times the two countries' border. The Republic of Croatia does not mention this railway in strategic spatial development documents until 2030. 8 However, we can put together additional efforts to make the position of the Union railway important primarily for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The current state of the UN railway requires large financial resources to be provided through joint investment, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the status of travel routes, i.e. road routes, the Framework Strategy for Transport, which was designed by representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, was attended, of course, by representatives of the resolution and entity ministries, identified actions needed to develop the transport system in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the short, medium and long term. I fully agree with you that this area is absolutely neglected when it comes to transport infrastructure, both rail and road infrastructure. And definitely one of the focusses, not only of this ministry, you've already pointed out in your question that this ministry is not the only one in charge of this part of the job, should give a focus on the Krajina in which about 300,000 people live. What encourages me is that 20 days ago we had a meeting with representatives of the Croatian government, and that the next session was agreed recently, where just one of the issues ahead of this ministry will be delegated, and this is related to the status of transport infrastructure in the area of the UN-San canton, with an emphasis on the infrastructure that is related to rail traffic. Be assured that this ministry, not only that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor any other part, will not be favored because someone will be given greater and less importance. We intend to have talks and this direction, and I invite you to come to me and give you more information so that you don't take time away from the other delegates. When we discuss the status of the airport in Bihac, no activity has been planned in the current Bosnia and Herzegovina Framework Transport Strategy for the period 2015-2030. However, it can be started to draw up a project documentation, i.e. making a justification study. And this is what the Ministry is making available for you, together with our colleagues, to do a study and go out and look for donations to build this airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2398	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kadić, do you have a need? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2399	Satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2400	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2401	The word has a chairman, Mr. Softić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2402	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates. 9 I have two questions, one is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is not present here today, he informed me last night that he will be dismissed today because of a meeting of the Fiscal Council, I assume that this is also the reason for Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda's absence. The second question was addressed to the BiH Human Rights and Refugee Minister, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. And she's not here today, I don't know if any of the ministers have been given the authority to answer these questions that I've prepared, but here, I'll tell them here today anyway, so if no one's ready, then I'll leave for the next session. The first question is asked by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. On 20 September 2007, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted a decision to give consent to ratify the basic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See and the Additional Protocol on the Basic Treaty, that is, in 2007. On 22 April 2008, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted a decision to give consent to ratification of the Basic Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Serbian Orthodox Church. My question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers is – When will there be a contract between the Islamic Community and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and what are the real reasons for the blockade of this process, here we see almost 10 years after the state established contractual relations with these two religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina? The second issue is for the Human Rights and Refugees Minister, Mrs Semih Borovc, in 2004, so 12 years ago, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly passed the Law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 13(4) of this Act states the following, I quote – The State is obliged to regulate pension, disability and health insurance of religious officials by a special regulation, and to encourage any institution referred to in Article 15(1) of this Act. Since this Law is in the portfolio of the competent minister, my question is addressed to her, although it is closely connected with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance, which is led by Mr Osmanović, my question is – When will the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, join the implementation of this obligation from the Law, and if after 12 years it has no intention of proposing amendments to this Law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2403	Can anyone in front of the Council of Ministers answer at least one of these two questions? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2404	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, respected media, allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. I am Predrag Jović Deputy Minister for Human Rights and Refugees and I have been given the authority to answer both questions. As for the first issue of the distinguished delegate, Mr. Chairman of the House of People, Mr. Safet Softić, the Council of Ministers, means the question was – when will be the realisation of the treaty between the Islamic Community and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and what are the reasons for the blockade of this process, let me answer you. The BiH Council of Ministers held at the 25th session, held on 29 September 2015, with corrections accepted at the Council of Ministers' hearing, established 10 proposals for a basic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and adopted a team report on the talks made. It is also concluded that the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees delivers a proposal for a basic contract to the BiH presidency in the follow-up procedure. The text of this proposal was submitted on 22.10.2015 to the BiH presidency for further action, which was discussed at one of the sessions by the proposed text of the Treaty. In addition to the suggestions of the members of the Bureau, the basic contract was returned to dorada, and after completion further alignment of the text remains. That's the answer to your first question. If you'll allow the other one to answer. The second question is – when will the Council of Ministers of BiH, or the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, approach the realization of the obligations arising from the Law? The law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina regulates legal matter in the areas of pension, disability and health insurance for religious officials. As the esteemed delegate stated in his question Article 13(4), it is indeed a regulated obligation for the state to regulate the area of pension, disability and health insurance for religious officials. Since it is an area of pension, disability and health insurance, I would like to point out that this matter falls within the authority of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. After a meeting with the Minister of Civil Affairs, it is agreed that an institution whose head is a working group that will initiate the preparation of a special regulation regulating pension, disability and health insurance of religious officials. The task force also includes a representative of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2405	I thank the Deputy Minister, Mr. Jović. Is the president satisfied with the offer of an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2406	The formal side of the answer makes me happy, of course. When it comes to this first question, I can conclude that, as I have heard, it seems to me in the tenth month of last year that the Council of Ministers adopted this and that it has already been more than a year since the reconciliations took place. I would ask that in some type of written answer an explanation of what is what is controversial and why it takes so long. And as for this other question, uh, I think we should approach the realization of what you're talking about as soon as possible or simply remove this as an obligation from the law. And in that sense, here I'm giving you support to access one, one of these two things. Thank you very much, everyone who has asked questions and received answers. In fact, delegate Sredoje Nović received an answer in writing to an oral question from the BiH Council of Ministers. Is the delegate, Mr. Nović, satisfied with the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2407	Honorable chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 11 If I were hypocritical and acted like those who wrote this answer, then I should say, “I am pleased with the wave once and for some honest, honest, and honest answer in this country.” I think this is below each level and underestimating these measures of delegates and this Parliamentary Assembly, Parliament, is indeed inadmissible. It is as if we are a completely illiterate world where they are not able, or were not allowed, to respond to what is really clearly asked, and to deny that it must not be stated how many escorts there are in this Bosnia and Herzegovina who are following the VIP personality at all. Bog, that act was only regulated, which they didn't state. Of course, I'm puzzled by whether this is the Director's response, although this Council should have established this answer, but here in the accompanying act I see that there's no date, no number, no session held, and then I think it didn't go through the Council, but it went to those illegal ones, not to say, rat channels. How is it possible that nothing is said in response and millions of dollars are spent? I didn't ask how many journals were spent, and now I only got that answer and that's in Bosnia and Herzegovina a million and a half marks, for the record, only on the journals of those who provide personality, a million and a half marks for 2016, so there's some public who can tell if it's good. Add to that the costs I've asked to make known, and I'll tell you because these aren't, they're not, they're hiding, that for the very least, the first category of personalities per year costs between 400 and 500 thousand one person, one person, and now you take the 27 individuals that are being provided, the truth isn't all by the same criteria and the same status. Let the citizens say, that's what needs to be strengthened, and I mean really because this doesn't cost much then it seems to me that I should increase a little bit of the first number, and the second especially the number of escorts, the number of vehicles, what gets broken down, what's being spent along the way, etc., at least I didn't have to explain it so wide, uh, on all of this. I think everything goes well with the following, at least when the director determines the exact exact data with his deputies and the head of finance very precisely what the costs are, so let at least a part of it tell us who we decide on the budget and its, and also the budget of the joint institutions. I don't want to say anything very ugly, I could say a lot more about it, I'm just looking for a decent, correct answer, what belongs to us as delegates. And don't ever do that again, trust the Director, and even you in the Council of Ministers, at least some of you, read someone's answer that your associates serve, we know very well that the ministers are busy, so maybe they don't have any, I've seen it all, but look at it sometimes and you'll say it's a shame to give that answer to anyone. This is still the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2408	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić has a report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I read a book a long time ago, Džordž Orvel wrote, and it's called "The Animal Farm," and here, in short, the animals rebelled against the people, they weren't good, they were good bosses, they forced people out and they set up their power and they wrote on the wall of the barn -- all animals are equal. And then it worked for a while, and then one morning she came up with a supplement and it was written: all animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. I react here to Chapter IX of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples where it writes – Information activities, Section 5 under questions and answers in oral form in Article 150(3) writes – an envoy may ask one envoy question. Two questions have been asked here. Now 12 I'm interested in whether anyone is more equal than others, if they have members of the College, perhaps in some article that I haven't found, the right to set up two. And under number three, I'm interested, can I, because I would have a lot to ask, and I have the right to ask one minister a month, can I prepare two, three, four, five questions for the next session? I'd like an authentic interpretation of the Poslovnk of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2410	Thank you very much, Mr. Karamatić. We're moving on to the agenda. For the 24th session, I propose the following amended: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 02.11.2016; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1510/16, from 20.05.2016 and 13.07.2016; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2275/16, since 26/08; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2194/16, of 05/08/2016; 6. Report - Monitoring of the implementation of the impact review recommendations – applicant: Office for Auditing BiH institutions, material number: 01,01/4-16-1-2008/16, since 25.07.2016; 7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement - Rural Competitiveness Development Programme (RCDP) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Agricultural Development Fund, issue: 01,02-05-2243/16, since 18.08.2016; 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement on Finance (Programme of Real Estate) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, No: 01,02-05-2462/16, since 21/09/2016; 9. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the state programme of activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 between the European Union, represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH, No. 01.02-05-2-2640/16, of 14.10.2016; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement on the financing of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, No: 01,02-05-2-2641/16, from 14.10.2016; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for IPA II. Serbia - Bosnia and Herzegovina 2014 cross-border co-operation programme - 2020, issue: 01,02-05-2-2642/16, 14.10.2016; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border co-operation programme - Serbia for 2015, between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, issue: 01.02-05-2-2263/16, of 14.10.2016; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement for the "Infrastructure Development in Gorazd" project between the Saudi Development Fund and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-268/16, since 17.10.2016; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the mutual suspension of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports, No 01,02-05-2-2-2683/16, of 19.10.2016; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, issue: 01,02-05-2-2732/16, of 26.10.2016; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journeys of citizens, No 01,02-05-2-1319/15, of 15.10.2015. This, therefore, is the harmonised agenda of the House of naords. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change and a supplement? If no one is reported, then we can determine that the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 15 delegates present -- for 15, without votes against and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I find that the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 02.11.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2413	Dear Chairman, distinguished delegates of this tall House, colleagues, fellow ministers, media representatives. At the 26th session held on 26 November 2012, the BiH Council of Ministers concluded that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is tasked with launching a procedure for the appointment of new members of the Professional Council of the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency since the four-year mandate has expired for members of the Agency's Professional Council. Since then, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, under the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, has proposed two decisions to appoint the Agency's Expert Council for consideration and adoption, which have never been adopted. The inability to appoint a new Council of Experts of the Agency is the reason for the adoption of amendments and additions to this Act. In this regard, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has made a proposal after a detailed analysis, and in order to ensure the effectiveness of the Expert Council, because it considers it necessary and proposes the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, more specifically the amendment of Article 15, which prescribes the definition, composition, mandate, decision-making and other obligations of the Medicines Agency. The opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers' Legislative Office, the BiH Ministry of Finance, the BiH Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, whose comments were included in the draft law, was received. The consultation was also carried out with the Directorate for European Integrations on compliance with the EU acquis. At the 68th session, held on 18.08.2016, the BiH Council of Ministers laid down a proposal for a law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and concluded that the proposal for a law was submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with a proposal for an urgent legislative procedure. If you want, I can do it by the members, or this is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2414	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2415	I wouldn't be talking about the law at all today because I don't think we should be dealing with it today, but I don't think any serious reason stands for emergency procedures. This Law is not so simple, no matter what one member changes, but it changes one of the essential or essential things in the Law itself. I would have been much more pleased today if I had seen with this Law that you have consulted both entities and Brcko District. Obviously, you haven't done that, but don't forget that this law of childbirth has had to be passed in the Parliamentary Assembly. And so do fellow delegates who are some here, and ministers who were also there, that this law waited almost five years in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be brought with strong consultations, representatives of World Health, with representatives of other international institutions, with representatives of our environment, and we managed in some way to come, not in some way, but I think that we have passed 15 fundamentally good laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This changes something that seems to me, even in the jurisdiction of others. Health care is indisputable in the jurisdiction of the entity and the Brcko District, so I don't think today this law should be passed by emergency, in an emergency procedure, it needs to be returned to regular procedure. And why you don't make a decision on the Expert Council, I think it's very clear to the Honorable Minister, and it was clear to me, and to those ministers, and also to those here who are now, why it's not really being made. So neither is this going to change, nor is this why the Expert Council hasn't been appointed yet, so that's very clear to us. But I don't want to talk about it right now, but I think the law should go back to the regular procedure and let's get this straight, and it's my suggestion that you really ask the entity and the Brcko District for opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2416	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. So, not to ask for an opinion, but to ask for an opinion for a simple reason, because here it is a law which already defines the competences of other authorities, that is, the Law adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is the Law that passed this same parliamentary assembly as it did, but now changes certain relations. Given that they, these very laws have been established on the authority of the entity government, or Brcko District, it is logical now, especially in light of this coordination, that we have, that this issue is fully enlightened. To be honest, I thought at the beginning when I saw that it was this law on the table, that it was a law that would reduce these prices of drugs, which has been talked about a lot lately, and I was really hoping and strange that it was not an emergency procedure at the House of Representatives, when I see it is not, but it is a change that needs to be taken away by one member elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federation of BiH and to assign it to, uh, the Council of Ministers. So I think this should also go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2418	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. Minister, you don't need anything? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the vote. We are voting on the procedure, so whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So it joined the vote of 15 delegates – for it was 4, against 8, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 4 for, 3 against, 3 abstentions, Republika Srpska without votes by, 5 votes against, without abstentions. There is no general majority, and I therefore find that the request to consider the amendment of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure has not been adopted. We will now, since the request, therefore, is not adopted under an emergency procedure, firstly we need to state about the request for consideration of the Law under a reduced procedure and in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 16 We approach the vote on a shortened procedure for this Law. So 15 delegates joined the vote – for it was 6, versus 7, abstentioned 2. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against and 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska without votes by, 5 votes against and without abstentions. There is no general majority, and I therefore find that we have not adopted a requirement for the law to be considered under a reduced procedure, and therefore the law in question goes into the ordinary legislative procedure. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1510/16, from 20.05.2016 and 13.07.2016 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission supported the draft law together with one amendment and proposed that it be adopted to the House. At its 35th session, held on 30.08.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Law in a second reading with one amendment. I give my word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, the chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. Here you go. It's like the report. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Second Reading. So it joined the vote of 15 delegates – for it was 11, against 3, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, against 3, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2275/16, since 26/08
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2421	I thank the chairman. Since it's a somewhat specific situation, it's going to have to explain a little bit. So, at the House of Representatives, there were no amendments and no amendments were discussed and the Law was adopted in the proposed form without amendments. The later review here at the House of Peoples and the consultations that we have conducted and with the legislative sector and others we have found that, that certain things have happened, that is to call them mistakes, to say technical mistakes and which are already repeated in a few cases, and that is why this conclusion is later on. These errors are mainly related to the non-compliance of the bill with the uniform rules for the making of rules that are valid. And the other thing in different versions, in different language versions of the bill's proposal happens pretty much, I would say, banal but for one law a pretty big mistake that the numbering of attitudes differs in certain versions of language. It's probably a technique, it's technical mistakes, but we now have a situation, for example, that the Law with these mistakes has already been adopted at the House of Representatives. Then we have these amendments, so six amendments, we have removed these mistakes and, uh, it's in line with the Single Rules and Regulations, these technical problems with numbering errors have been eliminated. And then, since this is already happening, we have considered on the Constitutional Commission a solution not only for this Law, but for the future. There is a business obligation to review the proposed legislation by the College of Instructions and the Legislative Sector, and the legislative and legal sector, in view of the capacity and human and other legislative sectors, and to pay attention to the content, to, and compliance with the rules. However, these technical mistakes were obviously made this time, and yet once again, technical mistakes happen to be overlooked and reached at the House of Representatives, so we were thinking that perhaps this time we should propose a conclusion to amend the Rules of Procedure that the draft law that comes into the Parliamentary Procedure should be referred to by the College and to the Legislative and Legal Sector, as well as the Department of Lecture in the Information Documentation Sector of the Joint Service Secretariat and then the Legislative and Legal Sector and the Department of Lecteration, if certain failures can be addressed by the institutions and the College to warn that the College is returning the law to the proposer. The assessment is that, at least ours on the Constitutional Commission, at this point in time until the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, this could prevent any errors from coming to this stage, such as the adoption of a single home law with technical but large errors. That is why we suggest that you adopt this conclusion as a solution until 18 responds to the Rules of Procedure. Since the laws have been passed in different versions, it will also require a committee for reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2422	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2423	Well, she's not exactly correcting the wrong quote anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2424	That's what it says here.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2425	Like, I don't have anything in line, and it's not really a debate, because I don't think for too long, just as a sequel to what the esteemed fellow Genjac was saying. Do you see any symbolics right on the Administration Act to reveal how bad our administration is, i.e. how many people who should do their job don't do their job. So this is exactly what we talked about at the last Human Rights Committee when I was talking, and I was talking to this respected House, that it's finally time that, regardless of the party lines, we start hiring people who can respond to at least the minimum technical conditions that this place is looking for. So that's what I was saying in the case of this dactylographer, who, meanwhile, sued the Parliamentary Assembly, because he was illiterate, and someone received him there, and so did this Law. And yet I have to be proud of one fact small, most of the mistakes are in Serbian and Bosnian, so the Hrvat klub has something to be proud of,..., of course I will support both the amendment and the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2426	That's why you're voting for the law, right? Thank you very much. Whether or not Mr. Ognjen Tadić is also correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2427	Thank you. No matter what I'm gonna have to do, it's me now. Uh, first of all, I disagree with this proposal for a conclusion for the simple reason that we as delegates should deal with the content of the Law primarily. If it's our obligation to lecture on texts, we'll have a serious problem, primarily because of the non-standardization of language and a lot of other things. I always take it from the assumption that if someone was employed in the ministry by someone who had prepared some text to probably know what he was doing if he was told he was a lecturer, I would never take the right to fix the text that the lecturer had previously fixed, no matter what my knowledge of the language is, and it's not little, at least about my language. So the Parliamentary Assembly, if it wants to resolve this issue, can resolve it by showing dissatisfaction with the current situation, given what we have recognized as a problem and 19 to ask those who prepare this and write that work is done properly. Otherwise, if we were to do this, here we might not have a job, but it would be a job, as Mr. Karamatić says, and then the question would be what does that word mean, etc. Maybe this language thing that you've noticed comes from the fresh spelling, some spellings have been written long ago, so maybe some are forgotten, some are fresh, so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2428	Thank you very much. Do we have a report for the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act in the Second Reading. So there are 14 delegates present -- they voted 9 against 5, with no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska without votes to, 5 votes against and without abstentions. There is a general majority there is no entity majority. We did not, therefore, achieve agreement as a committee, so we will approach the vote again. There are 14 delegates present – 9 against 5, with no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska without votes to, 5 votes against and without abstentions. There is no general majority entity majority, we can conclude that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administration in Second Reading has not been adopted. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2194/16, since 05/08 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission supported the draft law together with 9 amendments and proposed to the House its adoption together with the amendments adopted. The Commission also adopted the following conclusion: – The Constitutional Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to task the BiH Council of Ministers to establish a working group in which they will be representatives of the professional services of the ministries, the legislative and legal sectors of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat and the BiH Council of Ministers' Legislative Office. The task of the task of the working group would be to analyse and address nomotechnical problems related to the laws adopted prior to the entry into force of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to propose amendments and additions to those laws, which are referred to in the parliamentary procedure following the entry into force of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 20 The House of Representatives adopted the Law in a second reading together with 8 amendments at its 37th session, held on 09.11.2016. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2430	Thank you. Just a few notes. So, the House of Representatives passed the Law with a certain number of amendments, we, of course, also accepted those amendments on the Constitutional Commission, with certain adjustments. And here it is mainly about amendments to wrong numbering and errors in typing, not in line with the Single Rules and Regulations, etc. At the same time, an amendment was adopted there that applies to two members of the Law, which is not a matter of business, so we divided that amendment into two amendments. The second thing, there is one provision in the amendment that, if all, uh, attitudes are counted according to the Unique Rules and Regulations. The general question is whether it's a conclusion or an amendment, the amendment can't be that way. However, there is also a problem here, in addition to what we have talked about, the issue of making amendments and supplementing the Law after the adoption of the Single Rules for the Making of Regulations, i.e. legal regulations in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prior to these, the adoption of these rules was an appropriate practice and laws were made, a large number of laws adopted in that form. After the adoption of the Single Rules, of course, there are also proposals for amendments and additions to these laws. And now we have a different practice from the promoters that some amendments and additions of laws work in accordance with the Unique Rules and Regulations, sometimes do not work in accordance with, in line with the original form of the law, as I said, and the structure, which, as I said, was done before the adoption of the Single Rules and Rules. In any case, there are problems and technically, but they, too, I would say, and a legal nature that is very difficult to resolve later on, and that is why we have proposed, because the problem is also emerging by the ministry's promoters and it is a vaguely unified practice, it is not unified, that this one group would be formed in which all of these sectors dealing in some way with the law's nomotechnics and let's see what we're going to do. It is simple to open this topic, to discuss and that... solutions may be made through amendments to the Single Rules, perhaps by making, by harmonising these laws that have previously been adopted with the Single Rules and the unification of these practices. In any case, there is a practice for this issue to be opened and, as soon as possible, to address all these problems that arise in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2431	Thank you very much. I'm giving the word to the biller if he wants to. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. There are 12 delegates present – for it was 8, versus 3, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 6 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska 2 for, against 3, without abstentions. 21 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH was adopted in a second reading. I agree that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and that we must form a Joint Commission for the Consensus of the Text of the Law. I ask you to make proposals for members of the Joint Commission. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2432	... Bošnjak – Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2433	Halid Genjac The Bosniak Club. The Hrvat club, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2434	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2435	Mr. Karamatić. And the Srbin klub, Mr. Nović, please. Mr. Nović, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2436	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2437	Thank you very much. We heard the proposal, so Mr. Halid Genjac, Mr. Mario Karamatić and Mr. Darko Babalj are a proposal for members of the Joint Commission to bring the text of the law into line. We're voting on this proposal. The vote was attended by 13 delegates – for 12, against 1. Is it a mistake, Mr. Nović?
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2438	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2439	Yeah, well, I'm sorry, I think you suggested Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2440	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2441	Okay, I'm sorry. There are 13 delegates present – for 12 and 1 vote against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska 4 for, 1 against, without abstentions. 22 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and therefore I find that for the members of the Joint Committee on Consensus of the text of the Law of the House of Nations are appointed Mr Halid Genjac, Mr Mario Karamatić and Mr Darko Babalj. We now approach the vote on the Constitutional Commission's conclusion, which is proposed to vote on this House, you heard it, if there is a need to repeat it. It joined the vote of 13 delegates – there were 9, no votes against, four abstentions. The Federation of BiH 7 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska -- for, without votes against and 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, I find the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples adopted. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Report – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations – applicant: Office for Auditing BiH institutions, material number: 01,01/4-16-1-2008/16, since 25.07.2016 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt the report. The Commission also adopted the following conclusions and proposes to the House and their adoption. The conclusions are one. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently launch activities on the implementation of recommendations contained in eight impact audits subject to the report on the subject – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations, i.e. to initiate an urgent completion of the already undertaken activities on the implementation of the recommendations, and to report within 6 months the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. The BiH Institutions' Audit Office will forward all the information on the implementation of this conclusion to the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People's House over the period set out in point 1 of this conclusion. 3. The People's House proposes to the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight that when drawing up this legislative text in its content, the provisions that will refer to the implementation of the impact review recommendations made by the Office for the Review of BiH institutions, to find a solution for better implementation and exposure to public exposure to the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on impact audit reports and financial audits and the implementation of audit recommendations. At its 37th session, held on 09.11.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Report with one conclusion. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of People, if she wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2443	No microphone 23
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2444	Like in the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter if he is present and if he wishes. He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2445	Thank you. Very short. So, I agree with these conclusions, and in this first one where the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of People, is in charge of the Council of Ministers on these recommendations, I must say that it should be complemented by the way, therefore, that in this report on the follow-up of the Council of Ministers' recommendations, it should deliver an assessment of whether it has developed within half a year of mechanisms and capacity for active monitoring and analysis of recommendations. Why am I saying this? What we received from the general auditors, signed, writes the following – the most recommendations in the reports that were the subject of the follow-up were sent to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has not yet developed mechanisms or capacities for active monitoring both those directly directed to the Council and to other institutions in the competence of the Council. I think the conclusion is that they're bound to deliver an assessment of whether they've established these mechanisms or whether they're in control of these processes. Here's an addition to that first conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2446	Thank you. Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's an episode of Top list of surrealists when they watch TV and comment on what's on TV and what they used to be and what they're like today, and there's one sentence, he says -- my Reufe, our kids are laughing at us. The report is excellently written, however, I will support the report and conclusions, which is what this is about. Therefore, one of the improvement reports is presented directly and potential savings are presented provided that the audit recommendations are implemented and measures are taken in excess of one million KM. This could at least partially cover, for example, the protection of these persons, as Mr. Nović said, means that the other users of the budget are less burdened. And be careful now, although the Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Report and obliged the institutions to carry out the audit reports, meaning mandatory, since the last report which was the subject of the monitoring has been passed over a year, and over 47 recommendations have not taken absolutely any action, 45 recommendations have been implemented in part. So only 8% of the review recommendations are done. What Mr. Raguž said more than 30% of the institutions did not provide absolutely no data on the revisions of the recommendation. And now the question – who and why are we doing these audits? So if the Parliamentary Assembly draws conclusions, obliges institutions to carry out audit reports and 30% of them are not worthy to respond at all..., means absolutely unworthy to respond, I think this is the destruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this relationship, and that is why it is our fault that we are sitting here, in part, as well as the distinguished gentlemen of the 24 Council of Ministers. Because destroying Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a mark of the 25th anniversary of Herceg Bosnia the other day, nor will the marking of January 9th or March 1st, Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be any of it, but it will certainly be with this kind of relationship. So, I note that here, literally, the non-compliance of audit reports and non-implementation from the competent institutions in the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget has been robbed more than a million marks, according to auditors, who could have saved themselves that recommendations had been made. Not to mention how much it is, so every recommendation from the auditor refers to the legality and transparency of business. It's obviously missing both of us here, and when you see percentages, it means 30% of the institutions don't answer at all, 47% to get it and throw it in the apartment, and then we're talking to someone about the threat of the state. Most of all, we put ourselves at risk by not obeying those laws that we ourselves adopt and those recommendations from the institutions that we have authorised to make these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2448	Thank you very much. The word is Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2449	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I just need to say a few words, of course, not repeating what my colleagues said, which I absolutely agree with. The fact is that we have two types of audits, financial audits and impact audits. As for the financial audit, if you look at it from 2001 to today, you will see that all these financial audit reports are down, and here you will see this year when we are discussing them, perhaps four, five institutions that have received a negative opinion or opinion with a reserve, or an opinion with a reserve, while the impact review is something new that is absolutely useful. From all these reports, we can see how some institutions did it, and not just some institutions, but these audits also dealt with phenomena and all that matters when it comes to the functioning of certain institutions. Over 40 impact audits have been done so far, this is only one part, and I have to say that in this area, much more is what can be seen with the Finance and Budget Commission, where it is actively working on these problems and all these phenomena analyze and give a certain incentive to how to solve it. I think in many cases it's a classic example of how we should behave when we read these impact reviews. And if we did, I think we'd have a lot less trouble. But there's one fact that needs to be pointed out here, and that's why I answered. Seeking these solutions is a three-way relationship, one relationship is, therefore, the main audit services, the second is the Parliamentary Assembly and is the third is the Council of Ministers. Several times we talked about this topic, the Finance Commission and the budget have tried to actively work on this job, but I do not think there is an absolute response to this relationship to the main audit service – the Council of Ministers, and that is the neural point why we cannot take a step forward. I am, and this time I am potential, and that, I think, was also the conclusion of the Finance and Budget Commission, to make one meeting, perhaps the Round Table, where these institutions would be present. The Finance and Budget Committee can do little, but by empowering its decisions at the House of Peoples, I think we can get into this procedure and work more actively on these jobs, because I think they deserve attention. And the future of the revision is in these impact audits, because I think what's going on in this financial section has reached one level, can go up a little bit, a little bit less, but basically that's what's going on right now. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2450	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Report - Monitoring the implementation of the recommendations for impact review. There are 13 delegates present – for there were 13, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that the report - Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations is adopted. We are voting on the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House. There are 13 delegates present – for there were 13, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I find that the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Nations have been adopted. We have an agreement on the agenda to ratify the agreement. I propose, according to our established practice, that a common discussion and a statement on points 7 to 16, including item 16 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Sredoje Nović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2451	On behalf of the Club, I suggest that we vote from point 7.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2452	Is anyone else answering for word? Okay. I suggest we vote on this proposal by Mr. Nović. So there are 13 delegates present – for it was 9, against 4, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH 4 for, against 4, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I find that Mr. Nović's proposal to separate point 16 has been accepted. Therefore, we will unite the debate at points 7 to 15, including point 15. Ad. Seven. - Ad. 15. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and amendments I'm opening a debate. In fact, before I inform you that you have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication to the House of Peoples. 26 If Mr Radmanović wishes to be chaired by the Commission. It's like the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the agreement and amendments to the agreements between points 7 and 15, including item 15 of the agenda. So there are 13 delegates present – for there were 13, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, and I therefore find that we have given consent to ratification of the agreement and amendments to the agreements from point 7 to point 15, including point 15. Now we move to point 16, Ad. 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual travel of citizens, No 01,02-05-2-1319/15, of 15.10.2015
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2455	Just a note. The Commission's opinion is a year old, I remind the delegates to see it, and the report was adopted by a majority of votes, which is rare. This is one of the reasons why we joined this opinion by Mr Nović that we are having a special debate. I ask the delegates to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2456	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2457	So, we've had this debate on several occasions on the Commission, and for the sake of the public, I want to say my own position, respecting every club's right, every envoy of course. We see the situation, so the opinion is a year old, so the year spent we are not able to ratify an agreement that brings good to the citizens of both states. I don't think there's any reason, as far as I've seen the procedures are respected, they've been consulted entity, I've seen positive opinions from the entity at the time I gave my vote, but I think that some relationship in the neighborhood and 27 interregional and any other cooperation should be a mirror of our relationship and work. I'm just saying my own attitude now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2458	Thank you very much. Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Radmanović is a replica I suppose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2459	It's not a classic replica because it's exactly what Mr. Raguž said, but I didn't happen to remind myself that we did it a year ago. I remind you there were no fences in Europe a year ago, there are fences on all sides today. I remind you that the visa-free regime will probably not be as it is from next month, and we're making a decision that with a country that isn't next door to us with ID cards we're crossing. Maybe it's a benefit for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm not sure about that, maybe that's the way for some other countries to get a regime to cross the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina without passports, with ID cards. I don't think that's good. And that's why I warned you. It's been so long a year and so many things have happened that we should have here at least a new position of the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers, and the Presidency. That is as long as this Interim Agreement applies. And that's why I spoke, and that's why I answered, even though I'm not directly replicating what Mr. Raguž said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2460	Thank you very much. Mr. Ognjen Tadić spoke for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2461	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a specific circumstance where we're discussing the Agreement separately, it'll take us some time, but I think it's a good thing if we get some conclusions out of all of this or establish it. So, you see now this is a situation where what Mr. Raguž is saying is acceptable and true, what Mr. Radmanović said acceptablely and precisely, what we heard on our Commission, or at several Commission meetings, is both acceptable and true. And now you have different motives and you need to come to some conclusion why this Agreement is acceptable or unacceptable. And most often these problems, which we're talking about, arise when one of us actually reads this, some of these agreements, and then tries to determine exactly what it's about, to conclude, uh, what the consequences are and, of course, it's in one of the requirements, about -- let's finish it, etc., and you get nothing. However, happiness, so to speak, of this agreement, which would probably have been rejected a year ago, is that he's now passed the check. So, exactly what Mr. Radmanović says – we have a year behind us and in that year there was no problem in the relationship between these two countries. So at the time when the biggest turbulences were related to refugees, terrorism, the opening of the topic, the built walls, etc. etc., there was no problem between Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that gives me some reason to say that all MPs in the House of Representatives, including the SDS, and the SNSD, and who 28 all the way down participates, and the DNS, etc., when they supported this a year ago, I guess by feeling that there will be no problem, and there was no real problem. So this essential reason that we talked about before, as Mr. Raguž said, a year ago, he somehow removed himself. On the other hand, from the beginning, my remark on this, and on many other agreements, was that, which seems to be a pack of how this Council of Ministers exists, that the minister went somewhere and then signed an agreement because it's time to sign something, right? We have asked the foreign ministry for a special clarification regarding this Agreement, which it serves, since Albania does not border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Crossing with the ID card is defacto impossible, because if you are transiting through Montenegro, etc., or through the Republic of Serbia you have the regime you have. So, you now have to find a way to show your ID on the international border between Montenegro and Albania and not to have a customs officer, or a Montenegrin border guard ask you where your passport is. So this Agreement does not oblige those countries. On the other hand, as far as I know, or at least so far, there is no direct plane line between any airport in Bosnia and Herzegovina and any airport in Albania. And even if it has it is an international transport, you by the rules that are above our agreements must... have a passport. So someone who swims or sails by boat, since there is no port in Germany, can use this Agreement as it is written. I'm not saying there's no possibility that he's better used, but as it's written so he can be used. Now, when we asked the Ministry of Interior what this was for, they said for the economy, for everything else. Or the Agreement, in Article 1. The agreement writes, it says, provided they do not carry out any professional and commercial activity during that time. What does that have to do with the economy? I understand, someone can literally say no worker can work... but commercial activity it's a general term, you know what commercial activity means. So then he says that these sides of ours will exchange these documents no later than 30 days before the entry into force of this Agreement. Article 5 states - this Agreement shall apply provisionally from the date of its signature, meaning it is already applicable and the documents are not exchanged because they will be exchanged 30 days before the entry into force and the entry into force when diplomatically they have completed their internal legal basis for its entry into force by exchanging the last written notice which informs the parties of each other,... diplomatically, so Article 5. Elem, what Mr. Genjac would say, with this experience that this House of the People has, therefore, is that a man can only go mad when some things come to the table. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I translate what he said at that point, uh, where he spoke earlier when it came to my feeling, so, what he said, but we still can't solve all the problems here. So we simply face the size of the problem sometimes have to bow down thinking that it's less harm to do than not to do. And now we're going to track down the will of the House of Representatives, and what are you going to do, we're voting for this Agreement, this, which has gone through all the procedures previously and came the way it came before us, just so this question doesn't open up as a question, I don't know, maybe some of the worse relations between the two countries and other things, which, I hear, was the case when the last visit of the foreign minister when he asked if a man is 29 has a problem, are we in a fight, etc., etc. Well, that's how we act, that's how we do it, and then we wonder why this is happening. So I don't have a conclusion, to ask the Foreign Ministry and the other ministers to go somewhere and sign something, uh, a little more pay attention to the text that's in front of them, but whether they got something, uh, by the host country they were in.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2463	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2464	Here, Mr. Tadić has shown this very nicely and classically, we have had this debate and debate, and I will return to the beginning of the session and the envoy's question that I should have asked. I understand, however, that Mr. Crnadak, who comes from the PDP as a party that has no representative in either the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, is extremely important for the ruling majority and that he holds that coalition together, so to speak. However, what I said, if there are no envoys and deputies who can inform him, it would be good for him to be at meetings or the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. I may be mistaken, I have seen the Honorable Minister once or not in this House's session, and this is why these situations are happening. Namely, if he had consulted with clubs, I don't know, SNSD, SDS, DNS, NDP, the issue was signed by this Agreement. And now he's put us in a position, so this is basically the Council of Ministers, forcing this international agreement that Bosnia and Herzegovina has committed itself to. We have been for over a year, meaning a year that the Committee for Foreign and Trade Relations by revote, specifically Mr. Radmanović, one of the few cases, adopted this precisely for that reason. So this is the international obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina today, and we will turn out to be unserious to the Republic of Albania if we reject the agreement now. So that would be, I mean, what kind of country you are, the foreign minister comes to ratify the agreement and then Parliament rejects it. And here, I would really ask, not only Mr. Crnadko, but all the members of the Council of Ministers to be at as many meetings as possible and to make double communication with MPs and envoys in both homes, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, in order not to come to this sort of thing in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2016-11-22-0.u2465	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the vote to give consent to ratify the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual travel of citizens. There are 13 delegates present – for 10, against 3, with no abstentions. The Federation of BiH 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, without abstentions. 30 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I agree that we have agreed to ratify the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual travel of citizens. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I realize that we have ended the 24th session of the House of Peoples. I'm finishing her work. You will be notified of the date on which the next session is held. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:50 a.m.
